
                               1 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 26, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SWEEPING IMMIGRATION BILL PASSES EASILY IN HOUSE

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Tapping taxpayer anxiety over the nation's porous borders, the House easily
approved a far-reaching bill Wednesday that would combat illegal immigration and
curb public benefits to legal immigrants.

The measure, approved on a 305-123 vote, drew support from 76 Democrats, despite
pleas from liberals that the measure would punish many law-abiding legal
immigrants. It now goes to the Senate, where opponents concede they have little
chance of derailing it.

President Clinton, who wants some modest modifications, hasn't said flatly
whether he would sign the bill.

"America should continue to welcome those who want to work and produce and
contribute," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House immigration
subcommittee. "But we should discourage those who come to live off the taxpayer.
America should keep out the welcome mat, but not become a doormat."

Two-year effort

Two years in the making, the sweeping measure was propelled by disaffection over
illegal immigrants, which was signaled by a voter-approved constitutional
amendment two years ago in California that would deny most public benefits to
those who unlawfully enter the country.

But Democrats said last-minute modifications made in secret by Republicans
target legal immigrants who, they said, will become unsuspecting targets of a
popular bill designed to fight illegal immigrants.

The bill calls for 1,000 new Border Patrol agents every year for the next five
years; creates a pilot program so that employers who volunteer can check the
eligibility status of job applicants; toughens penalties for smuggling and
document counterfeiting; and calls for a triple fence along the U.S.-Mexico
border near San Diego.

The measure denies most federal benefits to illegal immigrants. But it also
would curb legal immigration by increasing by up to 100 percent the financial
requirements for those who sponsor legal immigrants to the United States.

The bill also calls for the deportation of legal immigrants who use certain
federal benefits for more than a year. It allows for the deportation of refugees
who arrive without proper travel papers.

Vote called 'extremist'

Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil
rights group, called Wednesday's vote part of the Republican-controlled
Congress' "extremist" agenda.

"It make further cuts in services to legal immigrants, undermines civil rights
protections for Americans, and makes life harder for American workers at the
same time that it makes it easier for businesses to break the law," Yzaguirre
said, noting that the bill eliminated a plan to hire 350 extra workplace
inspectors to make sure employers aren't hiring illegal workers.

Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., decried a provision of the bill that would prohibit
legal immigrants from using Medicaid for treatment of AIDS or HIV infection.

"It's a deportable offense," Frank said. Republicans responded that the
immigrants' sponsors, not U.S. taxpayers, should pay for that treatment.

Bill's fate unknown

Even Senate opponents acknowledged the bill was likely to reach Clinton's desk.
But if the bill gets lost in the Senate's rush to adjourn this weekend, leaders
said, it could be made part of an omnibus spending bill now being worked out
between the Congress and the White House. That would allow Clinton to get the
changes he wants, such as restoration of the workplace inspectors, before he
signs the bill.

Republicans removed Clinton's chief objection to the bill by eliminating
language that would have allowed states to deny public education to
illegal-immigrant children.

That proposal was resurrected Wednesday as a separate, stand-alone bill that was
approved on a 254-175 vote. But the bill is not expected to be brought up for a
vote in the Senate before adjournment. And even if it were to pass there - an
improbable outcome - Clinton would veto it.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    APRIL 13, 1997 Sunday PENINSULA EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TARGETED ON A MISSION: A GROUP WANTS BLOCK GRANTS WITHHELD
FROM AGENCIES THAT PROVIDE SERVICES TO UNDOCUMENTED RESIDENTS

BYLINE: HOLLY A. HEYSER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 716 words


A group opposing illegal immigration will launch its latest campaign Tuesday as
it tries to persuade the Mountain View City Council to withhold community
development block grants from agencies that provide services to illegal
immigrants.

On a mission to keep taxpayer money from benefiting people who are in the United
States illegally, Immigration Control Advocates of Silicon Valley wants area
cities to deny block grant funds to any agency or housing project that doesn't
screen out illegal immigrants. The group will demand the same from San Jose on
April 22, and from Sunnyvale and Santa Clara County on May 6.

"We think it's the right thing to do," said Immigration Control Advocates member
Joe Lavelle. "It's just common sense."

Withdrawing free services for illegal immigrants would reduce incentives for
people to move here illegally, he said.

The group is offering community services a difficult choice: Either screen for
immigration status or turn down taxpayer dollars. That puts the agencies in a
bind because many believe in serving people based on need and nothing else, yet
they rely heavily on government funding.

Mountain View officials aren't sure yet how to react to Immigration Control
Advocates' demand, nor are some of the community organizations that are in line
for the $1.4 million in block grant money.

The agencies seeking grants provide a variety of services for the needy, such as
housing, medical care, counseling and gang prevention. Some fear that screening
clients based on immigration status could violate state and federal laws.

"The funny thing about all of this is that in some instances we're supposed to
check, and in other instances we're not even allowed to ask (based on federal
requirements)," said Fran Wagstaff, executive director of MidPeninsula Housing
Coalition, which is in line for $864,062, the majority of Mountain View's block
grant funding.

"We try to follow the law, but it's not at all clear-cut," she said.

For example, the federal department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
recently required MidPeninsula to verify the immigration status of tenants in
every housing project the agency runs. "It was literally thousands of units,"
she said. "We came up with six households (where ten ants) were not documented,
and in the end HUD told us they could still stay."

The head of the Community Services Agency -- which is in line for more than
$47,000 from Mountain View -- takes a more hard-line approach to the screening
demand. "I won't do it," said Tom Pamilla, executive director of the Mountain
View-based agency. "I don't have the time for that, nor do I have the
inclination."

CSA provides food, clothing and housing-cost assistance to the needy in Mountain
View, Los Altos and Los Altos Hills. "There are many groups who look to us for
survival," Pamilla said, "and I don't see my role as denying survival to
anyone."

Pamilla has made these arguments about the role of community organizations
before -- when Lavelle and other ICA members attacked the El Camino Hospital
District last year for granting $67,500 to a center serving immigrants who wait
to get picked up for day jobs on El Camino Real near San Antonio Road in
Mountain View.

It was the local group's first effort to keep taxpayers' money from serving
illegal immigrants. The hospital district, based in Mountain View, approved the
grant anyway.

But in January, ICA convinced the hospital district to withhold its final
$17,000 payment to the church-run day worker center. ICA argued that the
district was violating state law by funding job services for illegal immigrants.
Operators of the center freely admitted they didn't screen clients.

Using a tactic they're likely to employ in future local campaigns,
illegal-immigration activists say that giving federal block grants funds to
agencies that don't screen people violates another federal law that makes it
illegal to encourage people to live in the United States illegally.

Mountain View City Attorney Michael Martello said that law doesn't apply to the
city dispensing federal grant money. But he said the council probably could
decide to make screening for illegal immigrants a condition of funding, provided
screening doesn't violate any other laws.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The Mountain View City Council meeting begins at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday at City Hall,
500 Castro St.SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 11, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELFARE WEANING 187'S GHOST HAUNTS STATE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 448 words


THE anti-immigration mania that began with California's Proposition 187 has come
back to haunt us.

The dismal details of the welfare reform bill are still dribbling in from
Washington, but one aspect of the legislation is dramatically clear: California
will be hit hardest in the pocketbook.

To understand why, just do the math.

Although non-citizen legal immigrants account for about 5 percent of the
nation's social spending, they'll suffer more than 40 percent of the welfare
cuts.

California has four out of 10 of the country's legal immigrants. They receive
more than half of the U.S. public assistance provided to immigrants.

Congressional analysts predict the federal government will save $55 billion as
welfare reform is phased in over the next six years. About a third of the cuts
will come from California. Most will affect the state's legal immigrants, who
will lose some $9 billion in benefits.

A few years ago, Gov. Pete Wilson began screaming about the costs of illegal
immigration to California - which his administration claimed was $3 billion a
year. He demanded - and got - some compensation from Washington after arguing
that the feds hadn't done enough to guard the border.

The other day, Wilson complained again, saying through his spokesman that
California was being "unduly burdened" by the new welfare bill. John Kasich, the
Ohio Republican who chairs the House Budget Committee, told the Republican
governor to "stop bellyaching" and start figuring out ways to cope.

There's more than a little irony here, considering that it was Wilson who
secured his re-election two years ago by attaching himself to a rocket called
Proposition 187. The incendiary initiative, designed to deny public services to
illegal immigrants, allowed the electorate to "send a message" to Washington.

The politicians in the nation's capital got the message all right - and
eventually started coming down hard on legal immigrants as well. For some
reason, most congressional Republicans didn't see eye to eye with Wilson, who
during the 187 campaign drew a distinction between good (i.e. legal) immigration
and bad (i.e. illegal) immigration.

One result was a politically popular welfare bill that sacrifices legal
immigrants to the altar of fiscal austerity. It will end up costing California
billions - arguably more than the cost of providing services to illegal
immigrants - by transferring public assistance costs for blind, disabled and
elderly immigrants to state and county governments.

The welfare bill will become the most expensive legacy of aiming the 187 missile
at Washington.

It's too bad that Washington fired a missile back.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS
RELATED STORIES: page 6C]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 29, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DELAYS FORECAST IN IMPLEMENTING WILSON CUTBACKS DENYING SERVICES TO ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS NOT SO EASILY DONE.

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 605 words


When Gov. Pete Wilson signed an executive order Tuesday seeking to bar illegal
immigrants from receiving prenatal and long-term care and other state services,
members of his own staff admitted that weeks or months might pass before this
occurs.

They were talking about how long the state's bureaucratic machinery might take
to grind out the necessary regulations. But several legal obstacles also stand
in the way of Wilson's plan to use federal welfare reform as a lever to achieve
some of the goals of Proposition 187.

* First, opponents of the governor's action say, he can't adopt any provisions
of Proposition 187 - the 1994 California initiative that sought to deny a range
of government benefits to illegal immigrants - without the approval of the
federal court that suspended its implementation.

* Second, because California law requires the state to provide prenatal care and
some other services to all who seek them, immigration supporters say Wilson
can't necessarily cut off this aid by administrative decree. Wilson's colleagues
argue that because welfare reform decrees states must pass new laws to continue
providing such services, the governor may now terminate such services.

* Finally, the U.S. Department of Justice is still deciding whether California's
methods for identifying undocumented immigrants meet federal standards.

Nearly two years have elapsed since California voters overwhelmingly approved
Proposition 187, but a judge has not yet permitted the governor to enact its
provisions. Opponents of the proposition predict the legal arguments that have
held up 187 will keep Wilson from implementing his executive order.

"The plaintiffs on the 187 case are not planning to launch any new challenges,"
said Charles Wheeler, senior attorney for the Catholic Legal Immigration
Network, "because it is unlikely that the state will implement Wilson's order .
. . without going through the 187 litigation court."

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer decided last year that California cannot
cut off illegal immigrants from any service that uses federal money but could
cut off any services that only state money supports.

In April, Wilson proposed regulations to cut off prenatal care for undocumented
women and long-term care for severely disabled undocumented immigrants. The
judge has not yet allowed the governor to implement these regulations, and she
has not allowed the proposed regulations to become public.

Thomas Saenz, regional counsel in the Los Angeles office of the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said the state cannot enact, through
regulation, the provisions of a law that has been blocked in court.

But Wilson and his supporters contend the federal law is paramount, a spokesman
for the governor said.

Robert Corry, an attorney with the Pacific Legal Foundation, said that federal
welfare reform, by requiring states to pass legislation if they desire to
continue serving undocumented immigrants, expressly overrides state law,
including Proposition 187.

"The court case involving Proposition 187 does not cover what Congress has done
with regard to illegal benefits," Corry said.

"People are impatient," he said. "Justice delayed is justice denied."

Finally, the welfare bill gave the Justice Department 18 months to produce
regulations describing how federal agencies should determine legal and
undocumented immigrants. States have a longer period to decide how to determine
whether people are eligible for public services. A spokeswoman said Justice
Department lawyers are studying how to respond to the governor's executive
order.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANALYSIS

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JANUARY 24, 1997 Friday PENINSULA EDITION

A WIN FOR FOES OF ILLEGAL WORKERS EL CAMINO HOSPITAL'S BOARD HALTS JOB FUNDS

BYLINE: HOLLY A. HEYSER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 645 words


Opponents of illegal immigration won a victory deep inside the border Thursday
night when they forced a Mountain View hospital district to stop giving money to
a church-run center that helps immigrants find jobs.

It was a dispute between people who said they favor doing what's moral for
humans - whether they immigrated legally or not - and people who demand respect
for the letter and the spirit of the law.

Board members of El Camino Hospital District clearly sided with those who wanted
to serve all immigrants. But concerned that giving money to the St. Joseph the
Worker Center in Los Altos violated a 1993 state law, they voted unanimously to
cut off funds.

The law was designed to prohibit spending public money on job services for
undocumented workers, and the St. Joseph center doesn't check the immigration
status of people it serves.

"Our forefathers were illegal immigrants," said board member Mark O'Connor, who
runs an East San Jose medical practice that serves many poor immigrants. But he
said he had to separate his strong feelings in defense of immigrants from his
sworn duty as a public official to uphold the state's laws and constitution.

In light of comments like that, immigration critics were not jubilant at the
close of the meeting, even though they had won their battle. Joe Lavelle, who
led the effort to stop the district from giving money to the worker center,
worried about an opening the board left: Members said they'd consider resuming
funding if the center could document it is complying with state law.

"I won't believe it," said Lavelle, who belongs to Immigration Control Advocates
of Northern California. He said he would sue if the district gave any more money
to the center.

What the center has lost is the fourth and final payment of a $67,500 grant
awarded by the hospital district in December 1995. Center operators have said
that losing $17,000 won't put them out of business but would make their job more
difficult.

The fact that this issue came up in a hospital district is slightly unusual.

Normally, the district spends $3 million in tax revenues running El Camino
Hospital in Mountain View, but four years ago, the district turned the hospital
over to a private, non-profit organization in an effort to compete in the health
care industry. After that, the district still collected tax money, but because
it didn't have a hospital to spend the money on, officials decided to award part
of it - about $600,000 - to various community organizations.

Under state law, the district had to spend the money locally or turn it over to
the state treasury.

In December 1995, the hospital district board awarded a $67,500 grant to the day
worker center, which provides job services to immigrants who often are seen on
El Camino Real near San Antonio Road hoping to find work in construction,
gardening or painting.

That grant - three-fourths of which has been paid - provided the bulk of the
funding for getting the center started last year.

Worker center operators freely admit they don't verify whether the people they
serve are in the country legally, and that's what upsets critics. Those
activists didn't find out about the grant until late last year.

Even if no one had challenged the legality of the grant, board member O'Connor
said, the board likely would not have continued making grants to community
organizations because the hospital district regained control of the hospital
Jan. 1.

Arguments by proponents and opponents of the worker center grew heated and
intensely political at times Thursday night.

Worker center critic Perry Lorenz, who argued that funding the worker center
encourages illegal immigration, finished by criticizing the board for not having
a U.S. flag in the meeting room and not reciting the Pledge of Allegiance to
open the meeting.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 1B of Morning Final Edition

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 15, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. BANKS MAXXED OUT ON USE OF FOREIGN TEMPS

BYLINE: CAL MANKOWSKI, Reuters

SECTION: PROFESSIONAL CAREERS; Pg. 2PC

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


U.S. banks seeking to hire foreigners on a temporary basis for hard-to-fill jobs
have found their efforts hampered by a provision in immigration law that limits
the number that can be hired in a year, industry officials said.

A spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service confirmed that
in late August it was determined that the number of temporary authorizations
issued to foreigners with certain specialty skills had reached the annual "cap"
of 65,000.

Because the fiscal year ends Sept. 30, that means banks, as well as employers in
other industries, must wait until Oct. 1 to add new foreigners under the
program.

The INS spokesman also confirmed that there had been no public announcement
about the cap, though many people in banking are aware of it and a few reports
on the subject have appeared in print.

Under what is known as the H-1B program, 65,000 foreigners per year can be
admitted to work for U.S. firms - for specific periods up to six years. It is
separate from the well-known "'green card" program, under which millions of
legal permanent residents receive work authorizations.

Susan Allard, who heads a San Francisco-based executive search firm, said
foreigners working in the financial services industry under the H-1B program
frequently have a master's degree or doctorate in mathematics or the sciences.

Often, they have a background in statistical analysis, and their undergraduate
and graduate degrees in many cases are from U.S. colleges and universities.

Allard said some companies have sponsored foreigners for permanent resident
status only to find quotas for specific foreign nations are full. Thus human
resources departments have viewed the H-1B program as a convenient way to bring
qualified people onto the payroll.

Lowell Gettman, an attorney in New York, said among his clients affected by the
cap are U.S., European and Asian banks with offices in the United States.

"In order to remain competitive, everyone wants to have the best and the
brightest," he said. In the big international banks, many of the people would be
working on programs designed to protect the bank's funds and customer's money
from adverse currency moves and interest rate fluctuations, Gettman said.

Derek Smith, who heads a Falls Church, Va.-based database marketing and
consulting firm called Future Link 2000, said the situation is a classic one of
demand outpacing supply.

"There is a huge lack of analytical talent that has a business sense with it,"
he said.

Another reason for the imbalance is a new willingness on the part of banks to
use statistical models in the credit process, Smith said.

American graduates with the necessary skills often aim for lucrative jobs in
medicine or high profile Wall Street careers, shunning the banking sector. "All
of these other things look much more exciting than banking," Smith said.

But the statistical analysis jobs are nothing to be sneered at. Allard, whose
firm is called Allard Associates, said salaries being offered to new graduates,
depending on the college major and the level of the degree, range from $40,000
to $60,000 per year. She said those with schooling and a couple of years of
relevant work experience command salaries in the range of $55,000 to $75,000 a
year.

The INS spokesman said officials are now reviewing the situation. "We're mindful
of the difficulty this puts some people in," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 18, 1997 Saturday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

RAID LAID TO UNION-BUSTING PLANT ACCUSED OF CALLING IN INS TO ARREST ACTIVISTS

BYLINE: E. MARK MORENO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 512 words


Immigrants' rights groups and union members demonstrated outside a San Leandro
tape-duplicating company Friday, charging that its owner asked federal
immigration agents to arrest nearly 100 workers at the plant in order to bust up
union-organizing efforts.

About 60 people, some waving placards and chanting "Justicia!" - justice -
peacefully left the doors of Mediacopy Inc. about two hours after the protest
started at noon. Through representatives, company officials denied tipping off
the Immigration and Naturalization Service about its workers.

Scores of INS agents entered the plant early Jan. 7, arresting 99 workers, 60 of
whom accepted voluntary deportations, INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said.

The company, formerly called West Coast Duplicating, makes copies of videotapes
for film studios and corporations. It employs 1,000 workers.

Immigrants' rights groups that have talked with current and former immigrant
workers at Mediacopy say the workers were called to a meeting the morning of the
raid and assembled in a room to await arrest.

"They should not be working as INS agents," said Renee Saucedo of the San
Francisco-based Northern California Coalition for Immigrant Rights. "This (union
organizing) is something they have a right to do even if they are illegal."

Rummery said the raid was actually the result of five earlier arrests - made
through anonymous tips - of illegal workers at the plant within the past few
years. An INS investigation of the company after those arrests resulted in the
raid last week.

She could not confirm or deny whether Roth or others called agents to the plant,
citing the current investigation.

"The company in no way called in the INS," Mediacopy spokeswoman Jessica Holman
said. "No company would do that. It's extremely disruptive to business."

Mediacopy's sole shareholder, John Roth, was unavailable for comment Friday,
referring questions to the spokeswomen. According to Dun & Bradstreet records,
Roth is a former Alameda County sheriff's deputy.

Officials with the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union say
workers at the plant on Doolittle Street had been talking to others about
joining the union, organizer Alfredo Flotte said. After the raid, the upset
workers increased their efforts.

"They told me the company was involved in this," Flotte said. "They were just
focusing on long-term employees (to have arrested)."

Union leaders are scheduled to meet with company and federal labor officials
later this month for guidelines on an upcoming election to decide on a union
presence at Mediacopy. The company also has a warehouse in Hayward and a
duplicating plant in Culver City.

Turning in illegal immigrants for their union organizing efforts is an "unfair
labor practice," but some employers break the law, said attorney Sara Campos of
the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area.

"Jobs for Latinos aren't good," said worker Herman Mairena, 37, who said most of
them make $5 an hour at the plant. "There's extra pressure to work."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 2, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEAL NEAR ON IMMIGRATION BILL COMPROMISE CALLS FOR CHARGING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
TUITION

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


States would be allowed to charge illegal immigrants tuition instead of kicking
them out of public schools under a deal that may free a landmark bill from
legislative limbo as early as today.

The chief sponsor of the controversial education provision, Rep. Elton Gallegly,
R-Oxnard, said he reached a deal with Senate negotiators Thursday night to
settle the stickiest part of the far-reaching bill to crack down on illegal
immigration.

The conferees' compromise would soften a provision in the House bill that would
have immediately expelled illegal immigrant students from public schools.

Instead, illegal immigrant children now in public schools could remain until
they reach the seventh grade. At that point, they would be subject to
deportation unless they paid tuition, about $6,000 a year in California. States
could still deny public education to all children who enroll after Sept. 30 of
this year, and students who change school districts could face expulsion or
tuition.

But since few illegal immigrants could afford the tuition, the practical effect
is almost identical to the original provision and is likely to limit its
popularity.

Still, the compromise attracted key support among immigration negotiators and
could clear the way for floor votes of the most comprehensive changes in U.S.
immigration policy in 70 years.

"This is a big day for those who are concerned about stopping the unchecked flow
of immigration into this country," a gleeful Gallegly said.

The timing of floor votes in the House and Senate is uncertain, however.

Lawmakers are racing toward summer recess. And although GOP leaders would love
to ride into San Diego for the Republican National Convention later this month
with an immigration bill to promote, final passage probably won't come until
fall.

President Clinton has threatened to veto the bill if Gallegly's amendment, which
a presidential spokesman called "a nutty idea," made it into the final version.
Forty-seven senators have said they would oppose the entire package if the
earlier education language survived, and a Democratic filibuster is likely.

"You haven't heard the president himself say flatly he's going to veto this,"
Gallegly said, predicting Clinton would sign it. "He'll probably be calling it
the Bill Clinton bill before it's all over."

Republicans, however, would like nothing more than to force Clinton's veto of
popular measures to fight illegal immigration, which passed the House and the
Senate by overwhelming margins earlier this year.

The immigration bill would sharply increase funding for the Border Patrol and
contains other stringent measures to fight illegal immigration. The House bill
calls for a fortified border fence near San Diego and would establish a pilot
employee-identification system. The Senate version did not include giving states
the power to deny education to illegal immigrant children.

With the most contentious issue settled, conferees hope to wrap up other details
today.

The logjam broke Thursday when Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., a swing vote on an
11-member conference committee, agreed to the new version of the education
amendment.

Specter is calling for the General Accounting Office to report on the
consequences 2 1/2 years after it is enacted. If they are harmful, a vote to
repeal the language would be scheduled 15 days after delivery of the GAO report.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 8, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS RAIDS NET 84, SOME WITH CRIME LINKS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 66 words


Federal immigration officials announced Wednesday that 84 illegal immigrants
have been arrested in Sonoma County during a recent sweep targeting those
involved in criminal or gang-related activities. Immigration and Naturalization
Service spokesman Tony Marian said the sweep began last Thursday, when 26 people
were arrested at residences in Petaluma, Santa Rosa, Rohnert Park and Windsor.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 12, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CRUEL REFORM - THAT IGNORES SOLUTIONS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 554 words


FORGET about downtown San Diego. The Republicans might as well move their
convention a few miles south to the border, just outside Tijuana. They'd at
least save on taxi fare as they try to look tough on illegal immigration.

GOP leaders in Congress are working overtime to produce an immigration-reform
bill that combines stupidity with cruelty and ignores the real solutions to
illegal immigration. House Resolution 2202 is so bad it's been shelved about a
year, mostly because even moderate Republicans couldn't stomach it.

The only thing propelling it now is politics. The idea is to come away from San
Diego with an immigration bill that is so nasty President Clinton will veto it.
Then Republicans will bash him until Election Day.

HR 2202 isn't nasty only to illegal immigrants. It thrashes legal immigrants and
upsets the pro-family approach to immigration that's worked for decades. For
example, legal immigrants in most cases couldn't enter the country unless their
sponsors earned 200 percent of the federal poverty level. That's about $31,140 a
year for a family of four. Most immigrant families don't earn anything near
that. Lots of citizens don't either. About 90 million working Americans,
including most Latinos and blacks, could not sponsor an immigrant under this
bill. And that makes it elitist and racist too.

HR 2202 also would bar legal immigrants from federal welfare and medical
assistance, and make it harder for them to get an education and job training.
Any legal immigrant who's received health or welfare benefits for 12 months
could be deported, no matter how long they've lived here and paid taxes or how
many kids they put through college.

And these are just the nice parts of HR 2202. It gets nastier and loonier.

An amendment by Republican Rep. Elton Gallegly of Simi Valley would allow
illegal immigrant children now in public schools to remain until they reach the
seventh grade. At that point, they would be subject to deportation unless they
paid tuition, about $6,000 a year in California.

Now let's think about this. Grades eight through 12 bring the cost to $30,000.
No hay problema. Any immigrant janitor or fry cook can cover that and still put
his kids through Stanford or UC-Berkeley. And so can the average American
family, right?

This amendment doesn't just fly in the face of Supreme Court rulings, it gives
false encouragement to Californians who voted for Proposition 187 hoping that
Congress would address the issue with reason. Which brings us back to the
question of real solutions.

As long as we're focused on the illegal immigrant, our emphasis shouldn't be on
health, welfare, housing or schools, but on the jobs that attract them here.
That would force the nation to examine the deep roots of illegal immigration,
which the current political debate avoids. These include the facts that
agribusiness and some other employers are hooked on cheap labor, especially from
Mexico, and that industrialized nations don't educate their children to do grunt
work. Real solutions might include increasing the number of visas for
low-skilled immigrants by the tens of thousands, not reducing the number as the
Washington crowd wants to do.

Such efforts, along with sensible border enforcement, could reduce illegal
immigration to a trickle.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: JIM HUMMEL-MERCURY NEWS
[Statue of Liberty with moneybags]
[960812 ED 6B]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 12, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TAKING ADVANTAGE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 180 words


WHY did Congress restrict public assistance to legal immigrants? Not to punish
those who, like John Chih-Ming Liu's parents or myself, went through the process
to come to this country "to pursue happiness." Congress felt that illegal
immigrants have taken advantage of America's openness and willingness to help.

But could Congress enact a law to forbid illegal immigration, something that is
unlawful already? Of course not. So it did what many supporters of illegal
immigrants do - muddied the waters by throwing all immigrants - legal, illegal -
into one category. It's a safe thing for the politicians to do; even legal
immigrants can't vote.

I am waiting for the San Jose Mercury News to reject the notion that illegal
immigrants are just "undocumented workers." And when will you realize that
public schooling for the children of illegal immigrants is a side issue,
intended to distract from the real problem. The children are not the ones to be
blamed for being in this country contrary to U.S. laws. Their "undocumented"
parents are.

- Klaus Kraemer
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters, etc.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 16, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE IS OVERRUN;
WITH IMMIGRATION NON-SOLUTIONS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 444 words

"THEY just keep coming."

No, we don't mean the brown-skinned immigrants Gov. Pete Wilson kept jabbering
about to get himself re-elected two years ago. What keeps coming are the shallow
and opportunistic "solutions" to illegal immigration.

The latest one, the California Lawful Employment and Residency Act initiative,
would impose criminal penalties for anyone who rents, leases or sells property
to illegal immigrants. Where the unworkable Proposition 187 would have deputized
teachers as immigration cops, the CLEAR initiative recruits landlords.

Whether or not this Son of 187 ever gets on the ballot, it is clearly another
non-solution that ignores the root causes of illegal immigration.

Are landlords going to be any more willing or able than teachers and school
administrators to enforce immigration laws? In the real world, many illegal
immigrants pay outrageous rents to landlords for the privilege of living in
crowded apartments. These landlords make out like bandits. Are they really going
to rat on the only people who will rent their lousy properties and not complain
to housing authorities?

Also, there is no reliable way to distinguish between legal and illegal
immigrants. It wouldn't be a stretch to imagine nervous or overly suspicious
landlords denying apartments to citizens and legal immigrants by mistake. At
worst, bigoted landlords could use the law as a handy excuse to discriminate.

More to the heart of the matter, this is another know-nothing approach to
illegal immigration. For all the bluster about eliminating public services and
now housing for illegal immigrants, these ideas don't say anything about taking
away their jobs.

Such an approach would have to examine the complicity of American employers in
the immigration mess. It's no secret that some of Pete Wilson's biggest campaign
contributors are wealthy farmers who benefit greatly from the steady supply of
illegal workers.

In agriculture, maybe a guest worker program, negotiated with Mexico, would
bring the crops in on time and provide workers with decent pay, health care and
housing. Or maybe not. The answer might be to follow the advice of some labor
economists and raise the agricultural minimum wage. That might accomplish one or
two things: Attract more citizens and legal immigrants to farm work or convince
California growers to further mechanize their farms. Either way, the demand for
illegal farm workers would be reduced.

These ideas aren't sure-fire solutions, but they're worth talking about because
they address very complex economic forces that determine who works where.
Against forces like that, landlords don't stand a chance.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Editorial
The opinion of the Mercury News

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: PAUL CONRAD - LOS ANGELES TIMES
[960816 ED 6B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 11, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON SEEKS PROP. 187 ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Gov. Pete Wilson asked a federal judge Tuesday to reconsider her ban on
enforcement of Proposition 187, saying a new federal law lets states report
illegal immigrants to federal authorities.

In papers filed with U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, lawyers for Wilson
cited provisions of the welfare law signed last month by President Clinton that
require states to provide names of illegal immigrants to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service four times a year.

The new law also specifies that state and local governments cannot be prohibited
from giving the INS information about the immigration status of a resident
alien.

Proposition 187, which passed in November 1994, included provisions that require
state and local officials to report suspected illegal immigrants to the INS and
to tell immigrants to obtain legal status or leave the country.

Pfaelzer cited those provisions when she ruled last November that much of
Proposition 187 was an illegal attempt by the state to regulate immigration.

The initiative also would deny public education and various social services and
non-emergency public health care to illegal immigrants.

The new federal law also denies illegal immigrants welfare and non-emergency
public health care, most of which was already barred by longstanding laws.
Wilson invoked the provisions in an executive order Aug. 27 directing state
agencies and state-supported colleges to halt benefits to illegal immigrants.

The order, not yet implemented, would affect prenatal care, a program entirely
funded by the state, and several other programs.

State lawyers filed papers with Pfaelzer under seal in March proposing
regulations to deny prenatal care and long-term care for the elderly, another
state-funded program, to illegal immigrants.

The federal law did not include a Republican-sponsored proposal to deny public
education to illegal immigrants. Texas' attempt to cut off education was struck
down by the Supreme Court in 1982, a ruling cited by Pfaelzer in blocking the
education provisions of Proposition 187.

After meeting Tuesday with House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Wilson called on
Congress to enact the education ban and said the newly passed law should remove
most of the legal barriers to Proposition 187.

But Mark Rosenbaum of the American Civil Liberties Union, a lawyer for opponents
of Proposition 187, said the new federal law and the state initiative do not
mesh.

He said the federal law requires the U.S. attorney general to establish a system
within 18 months for verifying immigrants' status, then gives states another two
years to set up their own procedures before they can report anyone to the INS.

Proposition 187, by contrast, requires police, doctors, social workers and
teachers to report "reasonably suspected" illegal immigrants to the INS without
regard to federal standards, Rosenbaum said.

"Proposition 187 was unconstitutional and remains unconstitutional because it
sets up an independent verification and classification system that is at total
odds with the federal system," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 11, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP PERSEVERES ON BILL TO DENY FREE SCHOOLS TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 889 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defying a promised veto from President Clinton, House Republican leaders vowed
Tuesday to champion an election-year immigration bill that would let states deny
free public education to illegal-immigrant children.

"Let's take it to the floor of the House. I think we'll get a huge vote for it,"
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., said after meeting with California Gov. Pete
Wilson. "Let's take it to the floor of the Senate. I do not believe even the
liberal Democrats are going to filibuster against illegal-immigration reform,
and I do not believe that Bill Clinton is going to veto it."

But Clinton last month pledged to veto the measure. The entrenched positions of
the two sides make clear that the landmark immigration bill has become a
battleground, in which the Republicans will try to force Clinton to veto a bill
that has widespread support, particularly in voter-rich California.

The immigration bill would roughly double the size of the border patrol to
10,000 agents in four years, establish test programs to electronically check the
immigration status of potential employees, and restrict many public benefits for
legal immigrants.

Educational snag

But the 300-page measure - easily approved by the House in March and by the
Senate in May - has been hamstrung by House-backed language that would restrict
public education.

Sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Oxnard, the education provision originally
would have given states blanket authority to block public schoolhouse doors to
illegal-immigrant children. Under terms of a compromise, many illegal-immigrant
children now enrolled in public schools could stay, as long as they do not
switch school districts. If they do, they would be expelled unless they pay
tuition.

"This has now been modified so it only relates to future illegal immigrants,"
Gingrich said. "Why would even liberal Democrats want to filibuster a bill like
that?"

And while Republicans promised action on the bill, now headed for a conference
committee and a floor vote perhaps by next week, immigration-rights advocates
and Democrats are charging that the GOP is more interested in political points
than the most sweeping revisions in U.S. immigration laws in decades.

The Republican leaders appear poised for what amounts to a game of political
"chicken." They will dare Clinton to veto the bill and then use that veto
against him during the fall campaign, particularly in California, where Clinton
is running far ahead of GOP challenger Bob Dole. Dole supports the bill.

There are about 700,000 undocumented children in U.S. public schools, costing
the educational system about $4 billion. Roughly 355,000 of those children are
in California, and Wilson has estimated they cost state taxpayers $1.8 billion a
year.

"Without (the Gallegly amendment) California will continue to not only spend
money that should not be asked of state taxpayers, but is, in effect, taking
away a level of service to legal residents that they deserve," Wilson said.
"That is simply inexcusable."

Wilson met later Tuesday with Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., and
aides said Lott is ready to promote the education provision. What remains
unclear is whether the GOP can stop a threatened Senate filibuster.

Opponents say they have the 41 votes needed to keep the bill from coming to a
vote. Fifty-one senators, including eight Republicans, have said they oppose the
bill's education language.

In a letter Monday to Lott and Gingrich, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., called
Gallegly's "poison pill" the only obstacle to meaningful immigration reform.

"Although no one agrees with every aspect of this bill, only one - the Gallegly
amendment - will actually prevent its passage," Feinstein wrote.

Feinstein said Tuesday that Republicans risk more than a filibuster if they
cling to the education language. She said the Senate could defeat the measure
outright.

"We've got members who are for no change," she said. "We've got members who are
for lots of change. I think the bill is imperiled. This was a difficult bill in
the Senate, even without Gallegly."

Wilson used his Capitol Hill forum Tuesday to follow through on his vow last
month to seek reconsideration from the federal court that struck down major
portions of Proposition 187, the voter-approved constitutional amendment to
limit state aid to illegal immigrants.

Welfare reform

The GOP governor cited the new federal welfare-overhaul bill, which also
requires states to deny public assistance to illegal immigrants.

"The federal welfare law makes it perfectly clear that states are required both
to report and to deny benefits to illegal aliens - the same objectives of
Proposition 187 which have been enjoined by the court," Wilson said.

The governor and state Attorney General Dan Lungren ordered state attorneys to
request permission to file a motion seeking reconsideration of the court's
November 1995 decision that struck down major portions of Proposition 187.

"The basis for (the judge's) invalidation no longer exists," Wilson said.

Proposition 187 was approved in 1994 by nearly 60 percent of California voters.
It would have denied education and welfare benefits to illegal immigrants. It
has not been put into effect because federal courts said it clashed with federal
laws.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 22, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP SCRAMBLES TO PRESERVE WHAT'S LEFT OF IMMIGRATION BILL EDUCATION: THE PARTY'S
MODERATES REFUSE TO ENDORSE LIMITS ON FREE SCHOOLING FOR CHILDREN OF ILLEGAL
RESIDENTS.

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Republican congressional leaders, who promised the most far-reaching immigration
reform in 60 years, make a last attempt this week to rescue legislation ensnared
by presidential politics and unusually open Republican skirmishing.

The bravado of two years ago, when they seized control of Congress for the first
time in 40 years, is gone. Along the way, attempts to trim legal immigration
were jettisoned in favor of a more politically palatable measure that cracks
down primarily on illegal immigrants.

Now, in the twilight of the 104th Congress, Republicans are scrambling to decide
whether to preserve - or to deliberately sink - even that.

"I think what we should try to do is ask ourselves, what is the right thing to
do, overall, for the country. And we're wrestling with that right now," Senate
Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., told reporters last week as negotiators
sought a way out of the brambles.

Immigration negotiators meet again Tuesday and are hoping for floor votes on a
House-Senate conference committee report by week's end. There is little
opposition to the legislation's call for a doubling of Border Patrol agents,
tougher penalties for smuggling and document counterfeiting, and other attempts
to crack down on illegal immigration.

But Republican negotiators have not been able to agree on a House-approved
amendment that would allow states to deny free public education to many illegal
immigrant children.

Clinton promises veto

House Speaker Newt Gingrich strongly favors that language, crafted by Rep. Elton
Gallegly, R-Oxnard, and so does California Gov. Pete Wilson, who estimates that
California spends $1.8 billion a year to educate illegal immigrants.

More importantly, GOP presidential candidate Bob Dole has endorsed Gallegly's
language, which has drawn President Clinton's vow to veto the entire immigration
bill if it is included.

That veto would be widely unpopular in California, where 60 percent of the
voters already have approved a constitutional amendment, now in judicial limbo,
to deny most public benefits to illegal immigrants.

But moderate Republicans in the Senate oppose the education language. A bill
with a watered-down version of the education prohibition seemed on its way to
approval by the conference committee before the Senate author of the immigration
bill, Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., said he wanted no part of a political
calculation designed to kill a bill he's worked on for years. Simpson favors
striking the education prohibition from the bill altogether.

"If we just send it to President Clinton and he vetoes it, we will win
California," Simpson said last week, repeating electoral logic he scornfully
disagrees with. "I never went for that scenario. I think that is about as
boneheaded as you can get."

Simpson's rhetorical eruption touched off furious closed-door negotiations among
Republicans who now say they are considering three options: stripping Gallegly's
language completely; enacting a one-year study of the impact of education for
illegal immigrants; or, least likely, allowing the watered-down version to
survive in hopes the Senate might still pass it.

As immigration negotiators left for the weekend, Gallegly told reporters that
his amendment, so far, remained in the bill.

Rules for sponsors

The stand-off has allowed gleeful Democrats to highlight what they call other
objectionable components of the immigration bill, such as the elimination of 350
workplace inspectors, language that calls for the deportation of refugees who
arrive without proper travel papers, and tougher financial requirements on the
sponsors of legal immigrants.

Currently, immigrants' sponsors, who are required to financially support new
immigrants if necessary, must earn at least the U.S. poverty rate. The bill
would change that figure to twice the poverty rate, except for immigrants'
spouses and minor children, for whom a salary of 40 percent more than the
poverty rate would apply.

Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., said Clinton "probably would" sign
the immigration bill if the public schooling language is dropped and other
objections are settled.

Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he
expects to settle the education issue early this week.

"We've got a lot of ideas. I think we're going to resolve it," Hatch said as
negotiators broke off talks for the weekend. "It's still up in the air. It's a
very tough issue. There are good, sincere people on both sides. Everything's on
the table. Everything's being discussed."

Hatch said if Clinton vetoes the bill after hard-fought GOP efforts to improve
it, he should face the electoral consequences.

"If he doesn't sign it, then he ought to lose California, because this is the
only chance to do something about illegal immigration," he said. "And he ought
to lose every doggone border state because, I'll tell you, that means he's
playing politics with one of the most important issues - one of the most
difficult issues to get both sides together on."

Bill pleases nobody

Ironically, the two-year effort has left neither side on the immigration issue
satisfied.

Groups calling for tighter immigration restrictions derided the legislation
after lawmakers dropped strong language that would have made it far more
difficult for the adult children and siblings of U.S. citizens to immigrate.

And immigration-rights groups, noting the bill's requirement that states deny
public assistance to illegal immigrants, say regardless of what happens this
week, Clinton's signature on the welfare reform bill means bad news for
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WASHINGTON CLOSE-UP

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
As a U.S. Border Patrol vehicle drove along the border earlier this month,
several men waited on the Mexican side to try to cross into California after
sunset.
[960922 FR 2A]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 24, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL CONCESSION GOP DROPS PROVISION THAT COULD BAR KIDS FROM SCHOOL

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Hoping to remove the chief obstacle to a far-reaching bill to combat illegal
immigration, Republicans are dropping language that would have let states deny
free public education to illegal immigrant children, congressional sources said
Monday.

Under terms of a face-saving compromise, the education component will be
stripped from the legislation as early as today, when a House-Senate conference
committee meets. The provision would be resurrected as a stand-alone bill, which
would face almost certain defeat in the Senate.

Despite the breakthrough, some Democrats still have reservations about portions
of the overall bill, and neither congressional passage nor President Clinton's
signature is assured.

The agreement is a rebuke to Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole, who
fought to keep the education language in the ambitious bill. The legislation
would double the number of Border Patrol agents, set up tougher penalties for
smuggling and document counterfeiting, and create test programs to verify the
immigration status of potential employees.

President Clinton has promised to veto any immigration bill that included the
education component. That was fine with Dole, who wanted to deny his Democratic
opponent another high-profile bill-signing ceremony before Election Day.

And, Dole figured, a Clinton veto of a bill designed to curb illegal immigration
would hurt him in voter-rich California, whose voters have overwhelmingly
approved a constitutional amendment, now in judicial limbo, to deny most public
benefits to illegal immigrants.

But the veto strategy began unraveling last week when the chief Republican
sponsor of the measure, retiring Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming, called Dole's
political calculation "boneheaded."

"There is and always has been overwhelming public support for measures to reduce
illegal immigration," Simpson said last week. "Both candidate Dole and President
Clinton have stated their support for illegal immigration-control legislation."

In the weeks that the education language has bedeviled efforts to get the
immigration bill through Congress, Democrats have raised other objections to the
bill. And the White House has not said flatly that Clinton would sign it, even
if the education component were jettisoned.

Objectionable sections

Some Democrats and immigration-rights groups say other objectionable parts of
the bill include its elimination of 350 workplace immigration inspectors;
language that calls for the deportation of refugees who arrive without proper
travel papers; and tougher financial requirements for the sponsors of legal
immigrants.

Currently, immigrants' sponsors, who are required to financially support new
immigrants if necessary, must earn at least the U.S. poverty rate. The bill
would change that figure to twice the poverty rate, except for sponsors of
spouses and minor children, for whom a salary of 40 percent more than the
poverty rate would apply.

"These are serious issues, and they have to be fixed," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum. "This bill goes much
further than its announced purpose."

Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, said that if Clinton vetoed the bill after hard-fought
GOP efforts to improve it, he should face the electoral consequences.

"If he doesn't sign it, then he ought to lose California, because this is the
only chance to do something about illegal immigration," Hatch said last week.
"And he ought to lose every doggone border state because, I'll tell you, that
means he's playing politics with one of the most important issues - one of the
most difficult issues to get both sides together on."

Nobody's happy

Ironically, The two-year effort has left neither side on the immigration issue
satisfied.

Groups calling for tighter immigration restrictions derided the legislation
after lawmakers dropped strong language that would have made it far more
difficult for the adult children and siblings of U.S. citizens to immigrate.

And pro-immigration advocates say regardless of what happens this week,
Clinton's signature on the welfare reform bill means bad news for immigrants,
noting its requirement that states deny public assistance to most legal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See also related story on page 7A of this section.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Sen. Alan Simpson has criticized Dole's stance on the measure to control
illegal immigration.
[960924 FR 7A]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 2, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LICENSE TO HIRE WITH TOUGHER MEASURES, MANY FIRMS WANT TAMPER-PROOF IDS OR OR OR
OR WASHINGTON PASSES AND IMPLEMENTS TOUGHER MEASURES CATCHING ILLEGALS ENTERS
NEW PHASE

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 916 words


After a season of alarm, Congress has finally passed a bill that supporters hail
as a tough move to limit undocumented immigration. The Clinton administration,
meanwhile, has put Border Patrol muscle to work rounding up undocumented
immigrants in California.

But even in the face of these measures, California industries that rely heavily
upon immigrant laborers are receiving few new tools to help them avoid hiring
undocumented immigrants. And analysts say that means the pull of available jobs
will continue to attract thousands of undocumented immigrants to the state.

Immigration legislation was signed into law late Monday as part of a massive
budget bill. One of the bill's chief sponsors, Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyoming, was
quoted as describing the legislation as a "a hunk" of a law that would do much
to limit illegal immigration.

The law doubles the number of Border Patrol agents over five years, and adds
1,200 investigators to the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service. Yet
it will go only part way toward addressing the problems faced by employers in
fields where undocumented immigrants tend to work, notably in agriculture and
garment manufacturing and as maids, janitors and restaurant workers.

For instance, the measure con tains incentives to encourage - but not require -
states to develop forgery-resistant driver's licenses and birth certificates.
These are chief among the documents that every new employee must furnish to
prove that he or she is legally allowed to work in the United States. California
already has made some strides in this direction, but employers still face
forgery problems.

"Employers who try to do it right are often thwarted because of the unbelievable
deluge of false documents," said Jim Abrams, executive vice president of the
California Hotel and Motel Association.

Georges Vernez, a demographic researcher at Santa Monica-based Rand Corp.,
agrees. "Right now, there are too many such documents and they are too easily
falsified," he said.

Congress did approve several pilot projects to help employers more easily check
whether an applicant's documents are real or frauds. But in the meantime,
industry can't do much more to screen out individuals with false documents.

"Documents are not foolproof or counterfeit proof, and the employer accepts the
documents that are supplied by the applicants," said Joe Rodriguez, executive
director of the Garment Contractors Association of Southern California, which
represents about 200 of the industry's most reputable contractors.

The new bill will at least give employers more leeway to ask such questions.
Opponents say these measures will allow employers to question American citizens
unfairly and might discourage some employers from hiring legal Asian and
Hispanic immigrants.

Today, such questions can lead to legal trouble. "If a document looks OK on its
face, if you go beyond it, you are subject to potential charge of
discrimination," said Russ Williams, president of Agricultural Producers, a
trade association that represents mostly the citrus industry.

The INS's first priority is finding criminal immigrants and getting them out of
the country, said Thomas Schiltgen, director of the service's San Francisco
district. Finding undocumented immigrants in the workplace also ranks high, as
is investigating fraud and smuggling.

Already, national arrests are up, an INS spokesman said, as the new inspectors
and border guards that Congress authorized last year complete their training and
go to work.

The agency's nationwide caseload of criminal alien arrests is up 30 percent over
last year for the first 10 months of fiscal 1996, according to INS spokesman
Russ Bergeron. In August, the San Francisco district of the INS arrested 132
people, of whom 59 were criminal aliens, said Sharon Rummery, an agency
spokeswoman in San Francisco.

While more agents on the border will certainly stop some migrants from coming
over the border illegally, it might also have the unintended side effect of
encouraging those who come to stay analysts say.

"People will continue to come, but they will be less likely to go back and
forth," said Rand's Vernez. "As long as enforcement in the workplace continues
to be lax, the effects of these measures may be minimal."

Many experts question the extent to which any of these measures could reduce the
appeal of American jobs, and American wages, to poor people in other countries
who are thinking about coming to the United States.

Of an estimated 4 million undocumented immigrants in the United States, about
one-third are thought to work in California. Working adults are concentrated in
agriculture, garment manufacturing and services, such as working as maids and
janitors.

How much do these workers actually contribute to the economy? No one really
knows. Few firm estimates exist for the number of undocumented immigrant workers
in the garment industry, for instance, which produces 70 percent of its products
in California.

While thousands cluster in agriculture, agricultural economist Phil Martin of
the University of California, Davis, believes that of a total of 135 million
American workers, undocumented aliens account for only 3 million to 5 million.

A new study from UCLA professor Raul Hinojosa, however, suggests that removing
all undocumented labor - if such a thing could be done in anything but an
alternate reality - would shrink California's gross domestic product by 5
percent.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS FILE PHOTOGRAPH
Agriculture is one industry caught in the illegal immigration debate. Here, a
worker plants celery near King City.
[961002 BU 1C 1; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 12, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELFARE-REFORM LAW CHALLENGED BY GIULIANI

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 101 words


New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani filed suit Friday to overturn new laws he
said would force the city to surrender the names of hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants to the federal government.

"The Immigration and Naturalization Service will do nothing with those names but
terrorize people," Giuliani said. He said the lawsuit was the first
constitutional challenge to the welfare-reform law President Clinton signed Aug.
22. It seeks to defend a New York City policy that bars its employees from
telling immigration officials about undocumented entrants who come to their
attention.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 27, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS FOCUSING ON CRIMINALS WHO ARE IN COUNTRY ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: LAGUNA NIGUEL


Federal immigration officials will step up efforts in Orange County to identify
and deport undocumented immigrants with criminal records.

About 21 percent of the 5,000 inmates in Orange County jails are in the country
illegally, Immigration and Naturalization Service District Director Richard
Rogers said.

Under the plan announced Friday, the INS will have an officer in the county jail
24 hours a day for six months; reinstate a project in the Anaheim jail to
identify suspects who are in the country illegally before they receive bail; and
begin screening probation files to identify felons who should be deported.

Agents will interview about 500 inmates a month at the county jail, Rogers
estimated.

On Friday, Rogers said he will place an agent in Anaheim as directed by
Congress, but only for the required six months.

"Because I have to station someone in Anaheim now, I may miss a felon going
through the county system because we're busy identifying aliens (who commit)
misdemeanors," Roger said.

In March, the INS put an agent in the Anaheim jail for 60 days, but that person
was removed in July after a study of 1,903 suspects found that while 24 percent
were in the country illegally, most had no criminal record and were booked for
minor offenses.

A federal immigration official will also be assigned to the Ventura County Jail
to help deport illegal immigrants.

The INS already has officers in Los Angeles County jails around the clock.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 4, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUTTING IMMIGRANT CARE ULTIMATELY COSTS MORE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 515 words


THE battle over welfare reform in California escalated last week, as county
governments and advocates for the poor attempted to stop plans to cut benefits
to immigrants.

On Thursday, a Sacramento judge temporarily blocked Gov. Pete Wilson's plan to
cut legal immigrants from the food stamp rolls. Earlier in the week Santa Clara
County joined a growing number of counties that have pledged to defy the
governor's order to cut health care to undocumented immigrants.

The governor says he is simply following the new federal welfare law, which
mandates the food stamp cuts to legal immigrants and forbids states from using
their own money to provide any health care other than immunizations or emergency
care to illegal immigrants. His administration repeatedly says that while it
would be nice to provide help to everyone, there just isn't enough money to go
around.

The counties see it differently. If food stamps are cut off, legal immigrants
who don't have enough to eat won't go to Washington or Sacramento for help. They
will show up at local government offices and local charities, and compassionate
agencies will try to feed them. Illegal immigrants aren't eligible for food
stamps, but they do get health care at county clinics because doctors don't ask
to see green cards. If immigrants who can't prove they are here legally are
denied preventive health care at county clinics, they will show up at county
emergency rooms with serious illnesses that are far more expensive to treat.

Santa Clara County officials are particularly concerned about the spread of
tuberculosis. The rate of TB infection has been growing in the county,
particularly among older Asians and Hispanic children. A case of TB caught early
costs $3,250 to treat at a county clinic. If it progresses and the patient is
hospitalized, treatment can cost $95,000.

Officials also are concerned about denying care for pregnant women. California
spent $69.3 million last year on prenatal care to more than 70,000 undocumented
immigrants. But studies have shown that for every dollar spent on prenatal care,
$3 is saved on neonatal care. Low birth weight and defects such as spina bifida
can be prevented with proper nutrition and care during pregnancy.

Anne Moses, deputy director of the county's health and hospital system, said
that if the issue is money, then it will cost more in the long run to stop
providing care for immigrants.

"Just because people don't want illegal immigrants here doesn't mean that they
aren't here and they aren't getting sick and having babies," she said.

Cutting benefits to immigrants will not solve the problems that plague our
welfare system. Congress included these benefit cuts in the welfare law to pay
for welfare-to-work programs. They had to cut somewhere, and immigrants don't
vote.

President Clinton has said he will try to restore benefits to immigrants when a
new Congress is in place. The sooner he is able to do so, the sooner we can get
on with the real business of welfare reform: Helping the poor to become
self-sufficient.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Immigrant Benefits
Editorial
The opinion of the Mercury News

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARBARA CUMMINGS - LOS ANGELES TIMES
[961104 ED 6B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   DECEMBER 6, 1996 Friday PENINSULA EDITION

LABORERS' CENTER TO LOSE AID

BYLINE: HOLLY A. HEYSER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 618 words


Under fire for giving money to a center that helps immigrant day laborers
without checking whether they're in the United States legally, trustees of the
El Camino Hospital District in Mountain View decided Thursday to suspend funding
to the center - at least temporarily.

Critics of the $67,500 grant to the St. Joseph the Worker Center charged that
the district violated a 1993 state law prohibiting tax money from being used to
provide job services for illegal immigrants.

"We do not want any more of our taxpayer money used to provide job services for
people who are in the country illegally," said Joseph Lavelle, who belongs to an
anti-illegal immigration group, Immigration Control Advocates of Northern
California.

Lavelle was one of about a dozen people attending the meeting Thursday to oppose
the hospital board's support of the center.

In addition to charging that the grant was illegal, Lavelle contends that the
worker center encourages illegal immigration. "(It) sends the message that
Americans support illegal aliens coming here," he told the board.

Board member Paul Hoar explained to the audience that as a physician he was
taught to provide services to people without regard to matters such as
nationality and immigration status. "It was in this spirit that the grant was
approved," Hoar said.

Nevertheless, Hoar and other board members agreed the hospital district
shouldn't make any more payments on the grant until it finds out whether doing
so has violated the law. The staff will investigate and report back to the
board.

Though the hospital district awarded the grant one year ago, foes of illegal
immigration didn't find out about it until recently. Most of the money has
already been spent, but the district is to make its fourth and final payment to
the center next month, and critics want the district to halt that last payment.

The St. Joseph the Worker Center got off the ground in April largely because of
the grant from El Camino, though the center has also gotten about $14,000 in
private, corporate and church donations. Donors included Knight-Ridder
Information Inc., a business information services subsidiary of Knight-Ridder
Inc., which publishes the Mercury News.

The center was set up for day laborers who wait along El Camino Real near San
Antonio Road in hope of getting tapped for day jobs in construction, gardening
and painting. The center provides a place for them to meet with employers, learn
English and, ultimately, get job training.

Director Josephina Fregoso said she has helped place more than 70 people in
permanent jobs since the center opened. She said she does not believe she has
violated any laws.

She and others said after the meeting that losing the last payment would make
their job more difficult, but they vowed to keep the center going.

They defended serving people without checking their immigration status.

"It's not our job to be in a judgmental position of deciding 'this person is
right' and 'this person isn't,' " said Mike Couch, treasurer of the worker
center. "Josephina can't do her job if she has to do that."

Fregoso said her aim is to help the day laborers become self-sufficient, whether
that means English classes, medical treatment, housing or job training.

Workers who go without those services and don't find work can suffer greatly,
she said.

The laborers' center wasn't the only community project to benefit from the
hospital district's largess last year. The district gave about $600,000 worth of
grants to various organizations, including the MidPeninsula Hospice Foundation's
Project Home Alone and 'Tween Time, an after-school program at Graham and
Crittenden schools.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 12, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LUNGREN ASKS JUDGE TO REINSTATE PART OF PROP. 187 HE WANTS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
TURNED IN

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 221 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Attorney General Dan Lungren asked a federal judge to allow enforcement of a
Proposition 187 requirement that state and local agencies report people thought
to be in this country illegally.

The motion filed Friday with U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer contends that
the reporting of illegal immigrants is specifically authorized by federal
welfare and immigration reform laws enacted last year.

When she blocked Proposition 187 about two years ago, Pfaelzer ruled that
existing federal law pre-empted the state statute, which would cut off most
public services to illegal immigrants.

Friday's motion is the first step by Lungren's office to produce a final
decision from Pfaelzer on Proposition 187 as soon as April or May.

The legislation was approved by 59 percent of California voters in November
1994. One of its elements requires law-enforcement officials and public services
providers to report people they suspect of being illegal immigrants to the state
attorney general as well as the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Some California cities such as San Francisco and Los Angeles once had sanctuary
ordinances or policies directing police and public service agencies not to
report illegal immigrants to the INS. But a state law was passed in recent years
that blocked such ordinances.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: The attorney general is pushing for a resolution of the 1994 measure.
[970112 CA 3B 3]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 18, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAMILY TRAUMA HIDDEN COSTS OF IMMIGRATION RAIDS

BYLINE: SAMUEL OROZCO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 713 words

DATELINE: WIMAUMA, FLORIDA

"The town was quiet and all of a sudden they came in helicopters, police cars,
and on foot. They were from the Border Patrol and the Highway Patrol," says
Cayetano Moreno, pointing toward a dilapidated trailer "park." "They took away
bus-loads of people."

For thousands of people across the country without official documents, the knock
on the door is here as the government begins its full-scale national campaign to
apply the Antiterrorist and Illegal Immigration Reform Laws of 1996. That same
week, in Mattawa, Washington, officers arrested immigrants inside their homes,
separating children from their parents. Soon after, in Raymondville, Texas, the
Border Patrol conducted a door-to-door search capturing some 300 undocumented
people.

The new legislation increases the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
budget by some 20 percent, which should double the number of agents and
inspectors and provide new equipment so the agency can deport at least 93,000
undocumented migrants in this fiscal year. Bryan Jordan, INS spokesperson in
Washington, D.C., says he is counting on help from state and city police.

"In the eyes of Congress," he said, "these illegals are unjustly taking the jobs
of domestic workers and taking advantage of the benefits of public welfare."

Backers of last year's law argue that spending tax money to expel immigrants is
a good investment, as it will actually allow the states with the largest
immigrant populations to save money now allocated to various benefit programs.

Economists may continue to debate the validity of that position, but the human
costs are already clear. Every raid, every highway chase, leaves an imprint of
fear and instability.

"It's like living in a state of war," says psychologist Concha Saucedo-Martinez,
executive director of the Instituto Familiar de la Raza in San Francisco. "It's
the same trauma. The effects will be seen in depression, in psychotic states,
because of the terror."

In Wimauma, Jorge, a migrant from Guatemala, standing just steps away from the
woods where he slept for three nights, says, "I feel like a fugitive, knowing
that I may have to run at any minute."

His neighbor Erendira says she did not walk her children to school or go out for
groceries for three days. "I have a little child with asthma, and they had to
bring me the medicine. What will happen to my children if they arrest me? The
children were born here and are used to being here, and I don't know what will
happen in Mexico."

For Jordan of the INS, "That's the price they have to pay when they enter this
country illegally."

Often, those who pay the price are children. Ninfa Martinez, a social worker
with the Redlands Christian Migrant Association in Wimauma, knew something was
seriously wrong when half the class did not show up for school. "They lost three
days - and almost all of those children are citizens." Martinez spent a day
visiting homes, but only those with green cards were willing to meet with her.
Those without papers were hiding in the woods.

People like Ninfa appear to be few and far between in Florida's fields. "As far
as I can remember, there have never been psychologists around," says Don
Everardo Cortez, a retired farmworker and adviser to a rural clinic. There is
stress, he admits, but he thinks that is a small price to pay. "We're happy if
we can at least get treated for the flu and when the children run fevers," he
says.

In contrast, the city and county of San Francisco have established a "safety
zone" for migrants. In open opposition to state and federal policies, their
resolution declares police and public officials must treat "all persons equally,
regardless of immigration status." The move came partly in response to testimony
from Dr. Saucedo and others suggesting that the trauma of raids and fear of
raids have led to crises which are difficult and expensive to treat.

In the meantime, in Wimauma, there are no calm days. Cayetano, Erendira and
their neighbors brace for INS raids just as they do for the inevitable
hurricanes. But there are no safe evacuation routes from a raid - only the woods
and fields. At night, their sleep is disturbed by car lights or rumblings. "Our
work is our pride," says one farmworker. "No one beats us there."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Samuel Orozco is a Kaiser media fellow and news director of Radio Bilingue, a
Spanish language radio station based in Fresno. He wrote this for the Pacific
News Service.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: GARY VISKUPIC - NEWSDAY
[970218 ED 7B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 23, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THOUSANDS DECRY FRENCH IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: MATTHEW GLEDHILL, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Tens of thousands of people marched through Paris on Saturday in a star-studded
show of opposition against an immigration law they say is dangerous.

Although prompted by a bill to curb illegal immigration, the protest was equally
against the influence of the far-right National Front and a perceived
anti-immigrant tendency in French politics.

"This is against a state of mind that says immigrants are automatically guilty
of the problems in our society," French director Bertrand Tavernier said. "This
started a long time ago."

When the march ended, about 300 illegal immigrants, mainly from Asia, occupied a
church in eastern Paris. They demanded negotiations to obtain residency permits.

A similar action by immigrants at another church last summer became a crisis for
the conservative government. The standoff dragged on for weeks until police
hauled off the occupiers, to the anger of many French.

The sea of demonstrators Saturday stretched for more than a mile. Some carried
suitcases, suggesting the tenuous nature of the immigrants' existence in France.

"French, immigrants, solidarity," chanted the crowd, which included people of
all ages and races.

Police said 33,000 people took part in the protest. Participants included
Danielle Mitterrand, wife of the late Socialist President Francois Mitterrand;
actress Emmanuelle Beart; theater director Ariane Mnouchkine; and British singer
and actress Jane Birkin.

Smaller marches occurred in several other cities, including Lyon and Marseille.

The government described the protests as a failure. Jean Francois Mansel, who
heads the Rally for the Republic Party of President Jacques Chirac, said French
people largely support the government's "will to fight with humanity but without
weakness against clandestine immigration."

The march took place Saturday despite the fact that the government had
eliminated the most controversial part of its immigration bill, which is
designed to curtail illegal immigration from Arab and African countries.

Currently, people who wish to lodge foreign guests from those countries must
obtain permission from their local city halls. The original bill would also have
had them signal the departure of the foreign guests.

Visitors from the United States and most other industrialized countries are
exempt from the immigration regulations.

For some, the provision, which was removed last week after a group of well-known
French film directors said they would disobey it, was a reminder of the World
War II Vichy regime, when some French denounced Jews to the government
collaborating with the Nazis.

The call to civil disobedience against the immigration legislation has grown to
include intellectuals, celebrities and some judges. Saturday, they were joined
by the bishop of Clermont-Ferrand, in central France.

"Church doctrine is clear," Bishop Hippolyte Simon told France Info radio. "We
must take into account the common good. But a majority, even if it is
democratically elected, is not . . . the judge of all."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Demonstrators march in Paris on Saturday to protest a new immigration proposal
that they say makes foreigners scapegoats.
[970223 FR 16A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 13, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PIANIST MAY BE DEPORTED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: BELLFLOWER


Pianist Donald Vega has entertained Quincy Jones and Lionel Hampton and is seen
as a jazz world wunderkind. Immigration officials say he's an illegal immigrant
from Nicaragua and should go.

The 22-year-old University of Southern California junior, who was born in
Nicaragua and entered the United States illegally in 1989, may get an
Immigration and Naturalization Service deportation notice next month.

It's a prospect that has sent shock waves through the Los Angeles jazz
community. Vega is considered one of the best young jazz pianists in the country
if not the world.

"Donald is first-class. You hardly run across someone that talented at that age.
It would be devastating to send him home," said bass player and arranger John
Clayton, who has worked with Whitney Houston and Natalie Cole.

Vega was 8 years old when he started playing the piano in Masaya, Nicaragua. His
parents refused to submit to the philosophies of the Sandinista regime, however,
and their lives were in danger, Clayton said.

His mother fled to the United States and soon sent for Donald, who has been
living illegally in the country ever since.

Vega realized last year that he could qualify for permanent residency by
requesting a suspension of deportation. He surrendered to the INS, declared his
undocumented status and held out the hope that because he had lived in the
United States for seven years, he would be granted residency.

But the new immigration law signed by President Clinton last September lengthens
to 10 years the required time a person must live in this country to be eligible
for a suspension of deportation. The law takes effect April 1.

If Vega's case isn't processed by then, he could be deported.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 28, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW LAW WORRIES MIGRANTS GET-TOUGH IMMIGRATION RULES GO INTO EFFECT NEXT WEEK

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1099 words


For the nation's 5 million illegal immigrants, April Fools' Day is no laughing
matter: A flurry of get-tough provisions to the nation's new immigration law
takes effect that day.

Fueled by wild tales spread by some of the nation's foreign-language media, the
law's April 1 deadline has triggered widespread panic in immigrant communities,
generating long lines outside marriage bureaus and INS offices.

"A lot of people feel that somehow this new law is the end of the world," said
Vilma Guerrero, a staff attorney at the East San Jose Community Law Center, a
project of Santa Clara University. "We've gotten the strangest calls. One person
asked: 'If I don't get married to a U.S. citizen before April 1, are they just
going to come take me out of my house?' "

Although the phenomenon hasn't spread significantly to the Bay Area and the rest
of California -- where 40 percent of the nation's illegal immigrants live -- the
number of weddings in some immigrant communities is soaring. In Manhattan in
January, the number of marriages jumped nearly 90 percent over a year before. In
Miami, they increased nearly 30 percent.

"There's a lot of fear and loathing -- some founded but most of it unfounded,"
said Charles Wheeler, senior attorney with the Catholic Legal Immigration
Network in San Francisco.

Officials of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service say the phenomenon
is based on the mistaken impression that getting married before April 1 will
help illegal immigrants avoid deportation.

"There is no reason to go out and get married by April 1," said Paul Virtue, the
agency's deputy general counsel. "The law has not changed in that regard."

Some of the wildest rumors have been catapulted by Latino tabloid TV
journalists.

Enrique Grata, the popular anchor of the Telemundo network program "Ocurrio Asi"
-- "It Happened That Way" -- recently reported that the INS will begin raiding
high schools and colleges on April 1 and then begin massive deportations, viewer
Rachel Perez of Union City said.

"I believe Enrique," the Mexican-American activist said. "He's coming out with
the truth. This is not a joke. This is for real -- especially for Mexicans."

Grata, whose network last year aired stories about sightings of a blood-sucking
extraterrestrial, did not return phone calls.

Report: No raids in schools
The local Telemundo affiliate, KSTS-TV in San Jose, aired three immigration
stories on Thursday's newscast, including two on the rumors. Reporters,
immigration activists and educators assured viewers there would be no raids in
schools. In one segment, the anchor urged viewers to "be very careful on whom
you consult" for information regarding the immigration laws.

One source of information this week was INS Deputy Commissioner Chris Sale, who
tried to squelch the deportation rumors.

"The law does not (call for), nor will we engage in, mass deportation," Sale
said at a Washington news conference. She gave the same assurance in Spanish.

What illegal immigrants do have to worry about are strict new penalties for
staying here beyond specified time periods. Many will be forced to wrestle with
the question of whether it's better to stay now or possibly pay for it later.

The 10-year rule
Immigrants discovered to be illegally in the country for more than 180 days will
be prohibited from re-entering the United States for three years. Those here
unlawfully for a year or more face being barred for 10 years.

"That's the part that's freaking everyone out," said Fran Gallo, an immigration
counselor for the San Jose area office of Catholic Charities. "No one is really
clear what's going to happen."

Initially, the panic was heightened when some attorneys advised clients that if
they were apprehended by the INS after April 1 -- and had been living here for
some time -- they could face the stiff penalties.

Then the INS said the clock won't start ticking until April 1 and that there
won't be any penalties for illegal residency before then. So the first deadline
for leaving without future penalties is 180 days from Tuesday.

The new law also makes it more difficult for illegal immigrants to avoid
deportation based upon their relationship with family members who are U.S.
citizens or legal residents. And foreigners who arrive at airports or other
ports of entry with fraudulent or no papers will be immediately interviewed by
an immigration officer. Unless they apply for asylum, they'll be sent back on
the next flight out.

If an asylum officer doesn't believe that an immigrant's fear of political or
religious persecution is genuine, he or she will be deported immediately.
Appeals will be severely limited.

"This is a real major change in asylum law because these people previously have
had much more judicial review," said Kathy Brady, an attorney with the Immigrant
Legal Resource Center in San Francisco.

In addition, for the first time there is a deadline to apply for asylum: one
year from the date of arrival in the country.

Sweeping legislation
All in all, Deputy Commissioner Sale said, last year's bill was so sweeping that
63 sections of immigration law were amended and 75 INS forms needed to be
revamped.

Immigrant advocates blame the terror in immigrant communities on the lingering
effects of Proposition 187, the November 1994 ballot initiative aimed at cutting
most public benefits to illegal immigrants. Although the measure has been
dismembered by the courts, the overwhelming voter support for it spurred
Congress to pass the Illegal Immigration and Immigrant Responsibility Act of
1996, which was signed by President Clinton in September. A month before, it
passed a welfare reform law that stripped most non-citizen legal immigrants of
welfare benefits.

"We're losing sight of the fact that immigrants are what make this country,"
said Guerrero, who came here from Chile at age 3. "Silicon Valley wouldn't be
what it is today unless we had large immigrant populations."

Danger to legal immigration
But INS officials say if they don't get a handle on illegal immigration, the
public will come to resent legal immigration as well.

For the illegal immigrants themselves, the mood is mostly despair.

"People feel the laws are getting tougher and tougher each day," said Gallo, who
noted that only a few years ago the feeling among undocumented immigrants was
that there would be another amnesty, similar to the one a decade ago.

"Now," she said, "they know that it's only going to get worse. Everyone is just
scared. They really believe there are going to be more raids."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IMMIGRATION LAW'S HIGHLIGHTS
Several key provisions in last year's sweeping immigration bill take effect on
Tuesday. Some highlights of the new law:
* INCREASED PENALTIES -- People found to be illegally in the United States for
more than 180 days will be prohibited from re-entering the country for three
years. Those here unlawfully for a year or more will be barred for 10 years. The
clock starts ticking on April 1.
* DEPORTATION HURDLES -- The new law makes it harder for illegal immigrants to
avoid deportation based upon their relationship with family members here. Under
the old rules, they had to be here for seven years and prove that being deported
would cause "extreme hardship" to themselves or family members. The new law
changes that standard to "exceptional and extremely unusual" hardship for a
spouse, parent or child in the country legally. The new law also increases the
number of years to 10.
* ASYLUM SEEKERS -- Foreigners who arrive at airports or other ports of entry
without proper documents will be given on-the-spot interviews by an immigration
officer. Unless they apply for asylum, they'll be sent back immediately. If an
asylum officer doesn't believe that his or her fear of political or religious
persecution is genuine, they will be deported immediately. The decision can be
appealed to an immigration judge, but the review period is limited to seven
days.
* NEW DEADLINES -- All people seeking asylum must apply within one year after
arriving in the United States. Those who miss the deadline will be sent back to
their home country unless they can prove "extraordinary circumstances" that
caused their delay in filing or "changed circumstances," such as the outbreak of
civil war in their homeland.
* VOLUNTARY DEPARTURE -- Illegal immigrants who are allowed to depart
voluntarily and don't depart within 120 days will become ineligible for legal
U.S. residency for 10 years. They may also be fined up to $5,000.
Sources: INS, National Immigration ForumMercury News Staff Writer Edwin Garcia
contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 2, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW LAW ON ILLEGAL ENTRANTS INS HAS MORE POWER TO DEPORT IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 301 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A new law that makes it easier for the government to deport illegal immigrants
and block the entry of others took effect Tuesday after a federal court turned
back a challenge by immigrant-rights groups.

"We're going forward. The law and accompanying regulations are being implemented
as originally planned," said Andrew Lluberes, an Immigration and Naturalization
Service official.

Monday, the immigrant-rights groups scored a brief victory when U.S. District
Judge Emmet Sullivan decided that the law shouldn't take effect until Saturday.
They argued that the government failed to publish regulations implementing the
provision 30 days before it was to take effect, as administrative law requires.

But an appeals court overturned Sullivan early Tuesday.

The law has thousands of illegal and legal immigrants fearing the future.
Several hundred people, many of them Haitians, took to the streets Tuesday near
an INS office in Miami to vent their frustrations. Many of the immigrants had
come to the United States in search of new lives.

"Now all of a sudden they've changed the rules. They're telling them to go back
home," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center.

In Washington, both sides returned to court Tuesday as the American Civil
Liberties Union and the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights pursued another part
of their complaint. A judge scheduled a hearing on that issue for Friday.

Having lost their bid to delay the law's starting date, the groups want Sullivan
to issue a temporary restraining order blocking provisions that deal with
political asylum for immigrants.

Under the new law, INS officers may refuse entry to anyone bearing invalid or
fraudulent documents unless a credible fear of persecution or asylum claim is
made.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Winnie Cantave, a Haitian immigrant, joins a group of about 500 other immigrants
protesting a new law Tuesday in Miami.
[970402 FR 9A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 8, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEARS OF INS ARE (MOSTLY) UNFOUNDED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 502 words


THERE will be no mass deportations. There will be no mass deportations. There
will be no mass deportations.

La Migra keeps saying it, but it seems like nobody hears the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. So many newcomers are confused or panicked by rumors
that they're swamping INS offices from San Jose to New York City in hopes of
seeking last-minute reprieves. We're not surprised.

The INS has never enjoyed much credibility among immigrants or even American
citizens. This is partly deserved. Not too long ago, the Congressional Budget
Office rated it the nation's worst-run federal agency. Even today the INS can't
handle routine paperwork without making people stand in line for hours or even
days.

But the rap against the INS today often doesn't take into account the
improvements. In the 1980s, a successful INS public relations campaign convinced
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants to come out from the shadows and
apply for amnesty. Today, the INS "has done an excellent job of letting the
immigrant community know that there won't be mass deportation."

Those aren't our words. They're from Mark Silverman, one of the leading
advocates for immigrant rights in the Bay Area and nation. The INS has been
running commercials on Spanish-language TV and other ethnic news media that
encourage folks to apply for citizenship and not to panic about the rule
changes.

Silverman's not alone. Senior Mexican officials last week took extraordinary
steps to allay the worst fears there. "There is no possibility of massive
returns of Mexicans," said the deputy secretary for population and migration.

So why are people panicking anyway?

The problem is that the new and modestly improved INS has to implement and
enforce an abomination. Even model immigrants who played by the rules and pay
taxes have a right to feel betrayed. Legal immigrants will have less, sometimes
no access to minimal safety net programs and recourse to the courts.

The INS is also haunted by its reputation. It's like giving a rehabilitated bad
cop a new, high-tech aluminum nightstick. You can't blame immigrants for
wondering if they're going to get a handshake or a bop on the head.

Meanwhile, the harsh rhetoric here and in Mexico continues to overwhelm the
voices of reason. We still have right-wing California Congressman Elton Gallegly
trying to kick the innocent children of illegal immigrants out of school. Down
south, Mexico has a leftist politician who wants to declare President Bill
Clinton persona non grata for approving the immigration law. These two guys
should be deported to the same desert island.

At any rate, we'll say it too: There won't be any mass deportations. Even this
law isn't that draconian, despite the best efforts of immigrant-bashers to make
it so.

What the immigration law needs at this point is for Congress to give the INS the
money and manpower it needs to process paperwork and inform immigrants about
their rights and the rule changes. It's only fair.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 1, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT KILLS LAWSUIT BY IMMIGRANTS DISPUTED INS POLICY NOW OUTSIDE FEDERAL
JUDICIARY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Compelled by a new law, a federal appeals court ordered dismissal Wednesday of a
nationwide suit by thousands of illegal immigrants who claimed they were denied
a chance for legal status by the government's legal error.

The suit, filed in 1986, challenged the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
policy of denying amnesty -- the first step toward legal residency -- to any
illegal immigrant who had left the United States since the start of 1982 without
advance INS approval.

Federal courts later struck down the policy, saying amnesty was available to
illegal immigrants whose residence in the United States from 1982 onward was
interrupted only by brief, innocent departures, with or without INS approval.

But after the suit had survived a 1993 Supreme Court ruling and returned to the
lower federal courts, Congress put language into last year's immigration bill
stripping federal courts of jurisdiction over such cases.

No violation
The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the new law does not violate either
the constitutional separation of powers or the rights of the immigrants and
requires dismissal of the suit.

"Congress' authority to define federal court jurisdiction is well-recognized,"
Judge Mary Schroeder said in the 3-0 ruling. " . . . Given Congress' sweeping
power over immigration policy, we cannot fault the statute on due-process
grounds."

"Congress was doing the bidding of the INS and reacting to a great
anti-immigrant fervor," said Stephen Rosenbaum, a lawyer for the immigrants.

Amnesty claims
He said the INS has indicated it will hear the claims of the hand ful of illegal
immigrants who tried to apply for amnesty but were turned away by INS officials
because of the mistaken policy.

But Rosenbaum said the great majority of immigrants affected by the ruling are
tens of thousands who were discouraged from seeking amnesty -- often by lawyers
or social service groups -- because of the INS policy. Some will leave the
country, but others will probably remain underground "at the margin of U.S.
society," he said.

INS spokesman Brian Jordan said the agency was pleased by the ruling.

Amnesty was offered by a 1986 federal law to all illegal immigrants who had
lived in the United States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982, and who applied by
May 4, 1988. Departures that were "brief, casual and innocent" would not
interrupt continuous residence under the law.

Earlier ruling
The lawsuit was filed on behalf of illegal immigrants who were considered
ineligible by the INS because they had left the country briefly without INS
approval. U.S. District Judge Lawrence Karlton of Sacramento ruled the policy
invalid and ordered the INS to extend the amnesty application deadline for those
affected -- as many as 300,000.

In 1993, the Supreme Court denied the government's request to dismiss the suit
but ruled that claims could be allowed only by those who had tried to apply for
amnesty and by those who could show that the INS policy was a substantial cause
of their failure to apply.

The case was returned to Karlton, who allowed it to proceed with the newly
defined group of immigrants. But during the government's appeal, the new law,
passed by Congress and signed by President Clinton, withdrew federal court
jurisdiction over amnesty cases by immigrants who had not filed or tried to file
amnesty claims by May 4, 1988, effectively ending the lawsuit.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 19, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION FRAUD ON THE RISE, REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 93 words


As the United States has focused on tightening control of its borders, illegal
immigrants have taken advantage of reduced immigration enforcement inside the
country to launch numerous fraud schemes to settle here indefinitely and receive
a variety of federal immigration benefits, according to U.S. officials and
internal documents.

Most of those who engage in immigration fraud come here to work and improve
their living standard. But some are terrorists and criminals, notably members of
Russian and Chinese crime syndicates, government documents show.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 30, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SUPERVISORS DEFY WILSON ON IMMIGRANT HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: TINI TRAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 322 words


As welfare reform and a governor's directive threaten to end benefits to illegal
immigrants, the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors vowed Tuesday to
continue its long-established "open door" policy of providing health care to all
county residents, regardless of residency status.

The issue has come to the forefront with Gov. Pete Wilson's executive order,
signed in late August. The order is generally seen as using welfare reform to
effect the goals of Proposition 187 - the 1994 state initiative to deny a range
of government benefits to illegal immigrants.

Proposition 187's implementation has been stalled in federal court. Under
federal welfare reform, however, the states may cut off certain benefits to
illegal immigrants - authority Wilson used to order counties to stop providing
health care to them.

Supervisor Mike Honda, who sponsored Tuesday's resolution, said the county must
be ever more vigilant in fighting for the rights of all its residents.

"We need to counter this current mood by reaffirming what this board already
knows," Honda said. "This is not only the right thing to do; it's solid public
policy."

Studies show that every dollar spent on prenatal care saves $2 to $3 on care the
postnatal baby will need.

Valley Medical Center, the county hospital which treats the county's poor and
uninsured, has long barred employees from questioning a patient's residency
status, said Anne Moses, deputy director of Santa Clara Valley's Health and
Hospital System.

"It's never been considered by this county to be in the public interest to try
to deny medical care to people who need it, simply because their status is
undocumented," she said.

In 1994, the county recorded about 8,600 Medi-Cal-funded births. At VMC, the
number of Medi-Cal births was about 3,000, Moses said. The state estimates that
overall from a third to 40 percent of their indigent patients are undocumented.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 10, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DMV FIRES CLERKS IN SCAM PHONY LICENSES: MANY OF THEM WERE ISSUED TO ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


The California Department of Motor Vehicles has fired 55 clerks statewide in an
investigation of illegally issued driver's licenses sold to illegal immigrants
and others, officials said.

The cases were spread around the state, with a majority in Los Angeles County
because of its size, said DMV spokesman Bill Gengler in Sacramento.

He said the 55 clerks were terminated over the past year and that 48 of them
were referred to local district attorneys for possible criminal prosecution on
various charges, including computer fraud, falsifying records and bribery.

Gengler said no action was taken against an additional 38 DMV clerks
investigated in the matter because of a lack of evidence.

The department has 8,500 employees statewide, including the unit of 250 sworn
peace officers that conducted the DMV's illegal-license investigation, Gengler
said.

Most of the schemes were pushed by intermediaries who made as much as $1,200 for
a license but sometimes paid the clerks as little as $100, said Vito Scattaglia,
a DMV investigations commander.

"This thing is really starting to get out of hand," Scattaglia said. "We've got
employees starting to outbid each other for the business."

Three years ago, the state started requiring proof of residency to obtain a
driver's license, and employers subsequently asked for a license to verify
residency.

"People can't live out here without the document," Scattaglia said. "Our
technicians make $2,000 a month, so the temptation is great."

First, clerks made a computer entry indicating documents such as a birth
certificate, passport or visa were checked to prove legal residency.

Then a computer printout was given to the applicant, who returned with the
document later to get a license.

Some clerks issued hundreds before getting caught.

Some workers said they sold licenses for the money, but others told
investigators they did it out of sympathy for the illegal immigrants.

People who receive these licenses are generally granted immunity for their
testimony, but the license is revoked.

The DMV will not tolerate such conduct, Scattaglia said, and has set up computer
traps for would-be cheaters.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 1, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

2 CUBAN BOXERS DEFECT TO U.S., IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY SAYS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 241 words


Just weeks before the Atlanta Olympics are set to open, two highly rated members
of the Cuban Olympic boxing team fled the team's training camp in Mexico and
sought asylum Sunday at a border crossing near San Diego, a lawyer who claimed
to represent the men said.

The lawyer, Frank E. Ronzio, an immigration specialist from Los Angeles, said
the men fled the training camp four days ago because of political persecution.

The two boxers - Joel Casamayor, 24, a 125-pounder who won a gold medal four
years ago in Barcelona, and Ramon Garbey, 22, a three-time amateur world
champion at 178 pounds - were being held by the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the lawyer said, but officials at the border refused to
comment.
ETC.:

Omar Luis held Team USA to five hits over seven innings and struck out nine as
Cuba's Olympic team posted a 4-2 victory in Columbia, S.C. It was Cuba's second
straight win over the U.S. team, which had won 18 in a row before running into
the gold-medal favorites. . . . Midfielder Jovan Kirovski scored both goals in
the U.S. Olympic team's 2-0 victory over Saudi Arabia in an exhibition in
Oneonta, N.Y. . . . Mary Joe Fernandez, who teamed with Gigi Fernandez to win
the gold medal in women's doubles at the 1992 Olympics, was added to the U.S.
Olympic team by the U.S. Tennis Association. Lindsay Davenport, originally
scheduled to play doubles with Gigi Fernandez, will play only singles.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ROUNDUP

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 4, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUBAN BOXERS MOVE CLOSER TO GETTING ASYLUM

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 172 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Two Cuban Olympic boxers who are seeking political asylum in the United States
walked out of a detention facility Wednesday after being granted parole by
immigration authorities.

Looking relieved but tired, Ramon Garbey and Joel Casamayor were released into
the care of their attorneys at the El Centro Immigration Processing Center,
where they spent the last three days.

The decision by immigration authorities in San Diego means the boxers will not
be detained at the processing center while their applications for political
asylum are reviewed, officials said.

"It means we're only halfway home. We still have more to do in court," said
immigration attorney Frank Ronzio. "They're only concerned with leaving Fidel
Castro."

Garbey, 25, and Casamayor, 24, had been at the immigration processing center,
115 miles east of San Diego, since Sunday night, shortly after they appeared at
the San Ysidro port of entry seeking asylum.

The boxers deserted their teammates during a training camp in Guadalajara,
Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 13, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MOM WILL GO TO RUSSIA AFTER DEPORTATION MIX-UP

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: WALNUT CREEK


A mother ordered deported to the former Soviet Union for what she says was a
miscommunication with an immigration clerk will be allowed to leave on her own,
a top immigration official said Friday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service also has promised Laura Tedeeva
Korewicki that she can apply for a return visa on an expedited basis, said INS
district director Thomas Shiltgen.

Ordinarily, people deported from the United States are banned from returning for
five years, but they can apply for a waiver.

Korewicki, who was scheduled to leave the United States on Friday for Moscow,
has now been given an extra week and will leave on her own, Shiltgen said.

Korewicki has been fighting to stay in the United States since 1992, when she
and her daughter came from Georgia, formerly a Soviet Republic.

She applied for asylum but was turned down. She then married Andre Korewicki, an
American citizen.

Because of a miscommunication with an INS clerk, she said, the couple thought
she could skip a deportation hearing because she had married. When Korewicki did
not appear, the judge ordered her deported.

Last month, Korewicki lost her battle to stay when the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals declined to overturn her deportation.

Andre Korewicki plans to go to Russia with his wife because he fears for her
safety if she goes alone. She has no friends or family and Moscow is a
high-crime city, he said.

"I am talking about a single woman in Russia," he said.

He did not yet know what they would do with their three teen-age daughters, two
from his previous marriage.

Shiltgen said Korewicki could have avoided the deportation at any time.

"For a long time, she could have departed the United States and applied for an
immigrant visa outside," he said.

Shiltgen also warned that marrying an American citizen doesn't automatically
grant residency to an immigrant.

"It gives no one any special status, but it provides opportunities," he said.
"The husband can petition for her to become a legal resident."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 25, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT UPHOLDS DEPORTATION LAW FOR SOME CRIMES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A new federal law allowing deportation, without court review, of illegal
immigrants convicted of certain crimes was upheld Wednesday by a federal appeals
court.

The law was part of an anti-terrorism bill signed in April by President Clinton.
It bars court review of deportation orders against those who have been convicted
of various crimes, including illegal possession or sale of a gun or bomb.

Case from Hawaii

In a case from Hawaii, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the law
was constitutional and applied to deportation orders that were issued before the
law passed.

"This court has jurisdiction to review certain final orders of deportation and
exclusion against aliens only because Congress has ordered it," said Judge
Diarmuid O'Scannlain in the 3-0 ruling. Congress can withdraw that authority
without violating the constitutional separation of powers or the deportee's
rights, he said.

The case involved Alfredo Aries Duldulao Jr., a native of the Philippines who
had entered the United States as a legal permanent resident in 1975.

Gun crimes

He was convicted of two gun crimes, not described by the court, in Hawaii in
1989 and sent to prison. He was ordered deported after his release in 1994.

Duldulao's appeal was turned down by an immigration board in February 1995, and
he sought review from the federal appellate court.

But the court said the passage of the new law, while his case was pending,
revoked its authority to hear the case.

Duldulao's lawyer, Kendall Wong, could not be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 1, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

2,640 BECOME PART OF COUNTRY'S 'GREATNESS'

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 488 words


Wearing the ceremonial black tunic and turban he saves for special occasions,
Bui Dang Truc, born in Vietnam 90 years ago, became a U.S. citizen Wednesday.

As his friend Dao Thanh Que helped him, Truc struggled unsteadily to his feet
and raised his right hand high to fervently salute the flag. Then, in what's
being called Santa Clara County's largest swearing-in of new citizens to date,
Truc and 2,639 other immigrants from 77 countries became Americans in an
hourlong ceremony at the San Jose Civic Auditorium.

Ironically, it happened on the day President Clinton said he would sign into law
the sweeping congressional welfare-reform proposal that seeks to bar benefits to
most legal immigrants who are not yet citizens. After all the welcoming speeches
from local officials, these freshly minted Americans were also given an
immediate reminder of the responsibilities and privileges of their new status:
voter registration forms.

The number of citizenship applications for county residents has soared from
14,400 to 24,000 this year - prompted by the state's anti-illegal immigrant
legislation, Proposition 187, according to federal immigration officials. The
surge has created a six-month backlog at the local office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

On Sept. 18, in an attempt to catch up, the INS is planning a huge ceremony for
at least 10,000 people at the San Jose Arena. Until Wednesday, the largest such
swearing-in had been a two-part ceremony for about 2,000 people last month.

In the sweltering hall, people adorned in all manner of finery fanned themselves
as if they were in the tropics. Some were wearing their traditional costumes -
Indian saris, Vietnamese ao dai, Pakistani salwar kameez.

"A piece of the world sits in this room," said Judge Patricia Trumbull, who
officiated the ceremony and compared it to the Olympics. "You have now become
part of the greatness of this country - and the way you participate is by
voting."

Throughout the ceremony, a phalanx of volunteers from the League of Women Voters
and the Santa Clara County registrar of voters office hovered near entrances to
hand out voter registration forms.

By the end of the ceremony, not one form was left.

Until recently, more than 50 percent of the new citizens registered to vote on
the spot by filling out the form during the ceremony. But a complaint from a
private citizen pointed out that people were not eligible to register until the
ceremony was over.

While several hundred completed forms were returned by the end of the morning,
the majority of new citizens took theirs home to be filled out later.

Few, however, waited to display their excitement. Getting in the spirit of the
occasion, Ana San Juan, 51, originally from Tamaulipas, Mexico, had painted her
nails with stars and stripes.

"It's to celebrate the Olympics," she said in Spanish, "and my becoming an
American citizen."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The county registrar of voters office is offering classes in the U.S. political
system.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 1, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

CLINTON TO SIGN WELFARE OVERHAUL CHANGES: LAW WILL GIVE STATES GREATER FREEDOM
TO SET OWN STANDARDS

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER AND HALLYE JORDAN - Mercury News Staff, Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton's decision Wednesday to sign a bill to radically overhaul the
federal welfare system gives Gov. Pete Wilson the chance he's long sought to
rewrite California welfare rules - but it has county officials fearful about
deep and painful cuts.
The Republican-sponsored bill ends a 61-year-old promise by the government to
provide aid to all who qualify for it. It limits assistance to five years, ends
virtually all federal aid for legal immigrants and gives states freedom to
design their own relief programs requiring work for benefits rather than
traditional welfare.

In Sacramento, Wilson's administration welcomed the latitude given to states to
tighten welfare benefits even further. But in Santa Clara County, officials
warned that about 38,000 immigrants and refugees will lose their federal aid
under the legislation and will swamp private and public assistance programs.

Clinton, whose decision was loaded with election-year calculations, said the
measure has "serious flaws," particularly its impact on legal immigrants. But he
called it the "best chance we will have in a long, long time" to fulfill his
1992 campaign promise of "ending welfare as we know it."

"The current welfare system undermines the basic values of work, responsibility
and family, trapping generation after generation in dependency and hurting the
very people it was designed to help," Clinton said at a news conference where he
announced he would sign the legislation that had divided his own advisers and
enraged liberal Democrats.

After Clinton's remarks, the House swiftly approved the sweeping revisions on a
328-101 vote. Passage by the Senate today or Friday is virtually certain.

Begins July 1997

The bill, which takes effect July 1, 1997, aims to save the federal government
$55 billion to $56 billion over six years by giving states yearly cash block
grants and trimming money spent on food stamps and social services to legal
immigrants.

It places a five-year cap on cash welfare benefits provided to families.
Recipients would be required to work for benefits after two years, but because
of hardship provisions, 20 percent of recipients would be exempted. States could
set many of their own rules, including cutting off benefits sooner than five
years.

Most attractive to Wilson, who has railed against the Clinton administration's
refusal to waive federal guidelines so he could construct his own welfare
system, is the flexibility that comes with block grants that will replace the
Aid to Families with Dependent Children program.

AFDC alternatives

Wilson said AFDC, which provides aid to single parents and their children,
provides an incentive for the poor not to marry. Instead, the governor proposes
a new program to help families in crisis - including those headed by two parents
- but with time limits.

Since Wilson became governor in 1991, the average family of three has seen its
monthly welfare check dwindle from $694 to $594. Californians can now make more
at minimum-wage jobs than at welfare counters.

And the Republican governor wants to cut deeper.

"Given his track record, I expect that he will cut benefits as far as the
legislature will let him and will shove as much of the costs as possible to the
counties," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, a former county supervisor.

Even though the federal bill allows the state to deny many welfare payments,
California law makes counties responsible for general assistance payments and
medical coverage to the poor.

Shift in responsibility

"The responsibility now will shift to the bottom end of the food chain," said
Margaret Pena, a lobbyist with the California State Association of Counties,
which fears county governments will crumble under the increased load unless new
revenue is found.

"Local taxpayers better brace themselves for what is expected to be the biggest
tax increase in history," Pena warned.

After twice vetoing GOP welfare bills, Clinton's decision to sign one robs
Republicans of a campaign issue they had hoped to use. Opponents of the bill
accused him of succumbing to election-year pressure.

"I had held to the view that there was an element of principle and compassion
left in the president and that he wouldn't resort solely to crass politics,"
said a disappointed Casey McKeever, lobbyist for the Western Center on Law and
Poverty in Sacramento. "But I think that explains what happened."

Clinton's risk

Clinton told reporters he made the decision Wednesday after a two-hour review of
the bill with advisers. He dismissed the political consequences of his action,
but he clearly wanted to add welfare reform to his list of accomplishments
before the fall campaign - even at the risk of angering his Democratic base.

Rep. George Miller, D-Richmond, charged that Clinton "has joined the Republicans
now in making the children the victims of the very system he said he wanted to
reform."

Clinton's Republican opponent, former Sen. Bob Dole, swiftly labeled Clinton's
action "an election-year conversion."

"While I cannot applaud the rationale behind the president's swiftly changing
positions, I commend him for finally climbing on board the Dole welfare
proposal," Dole said.

Rep. Bill Baker, R-Walnut Creek, said the bill was overdue.

"To squander taxpayers' money on a failed welfare bureaucracy is bad enough," he
said. "But the real tragedy is the poverty and violence that have come to
characterize the lives of so many people dehumanized by our welfare system.

CHART: KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
Welfare's new reality
Who gets welfare now - By Region - By Race
How it will change - Now - New Bill
[Chart not in database]
Source: U.S. Congress
[960801 FR 8A]

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: HOW THEY VOTED
Here's how Bay Area representatives voted. A "yes" vote is a vote for the
welfare-reform bill.
* Yes (hbox) No (dmd) Not voting
* Baker (R)
* Campbell (R)
(hbox) Dellums (D)
(hbox) Eshoo (D)
(hbox) Farr (D)
(hbox) Lantos (D)
(hbox) Lofgren (D)
(hbox) Pelosi (D)
(hbox) Stark (D)
(hbox) Woolsey (D)
Welfare Overhaul
The welfare-reform bill heading for President Clinton's signature would:
Essentially end a six-decade promise by the federal government to provide aid to
all who qualify for it and give states broad power to design their own welfare
programs.
Set a lifetime limit of five years of welfare per family and require an
able-bodied adult to work after two years, but allow hardship exemptions for up
to 20 percent of recipients
Eliminate virtually all assistance to legal immigrants.
Source: MERCURY NEWSSee related story on page 1A
Vanessa Gallman of the Mercury News Washington Bureau and Staff Writer S.L.
Bachman contributed to this report.

CORRECTION-DATE: AUGUST 2, 1996

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 8/2/96, pg. 2A)
An article about welfare reform on the front page of Wednesday's paper
incorrectly characterized the position on immigration taken by Yeh Ling-Ling,
national representative of the Diversity Coalition for an Immigration
Moratorium. She advocates not an outright ban on immigration but a five-year
moratorium during which legal immigrants would be limited to 100,000 per year.

GRAPHIC: Chart, Photo;
PHOTO: Clinton
The president is accused of playing politics.
[960801 FR 1A 1; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 5, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELFARE DENIAL IS NOT CRUEL TO HARD-WORKING NEWCOMERS

BYLINE: JOHN CHIH-MING LIU

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 439 words


AS THE SON of legal immigrants who came to this country fleeing the tyranny of
Communist China, I was both intrigued and insulted to hear California's two U.S.
senators argue that the welfare reform bill is "unnecessarily harsh" and "cruel"
to immigrants by denying them benefits available to citizens.

Contrary to patronizing liberal rhetoric, my parents and so many others managed
to scratch their way up the economic ladder without relying on the federal
welfare program.

Feinstein argues "the ultimate test of a civilization is how we treat the least
among us." I'd say my father fit that category when he arrived in San Francisco
in 1958 with a cardboard suitcase, $5 in his pocket and no command of the
English language. Not having read "Zai Meiguo Sheng Huo Xu Zhi" ("Important
Facts About Life in America"), currently available in bookstores in Taiwan, Hong
Kong and Chinatowns throughout the United States, my parents didn't know they
were "entitled" to the plethora of welfare benefits provided by the American
taxpayers. Driven by the values of hard work and sacrifice, they never felt
"entitled" to anything they hadn't worked for.

There is something inherently wrong in the logic of saying to strangers: "Come
on over, and don't worry about becoming a citizen or contributing to your new
homeland. This is the land of instant gratification. The taxpaying Americans
already here will spare you the hard work and sacrifice. Here's your open-ended
check to Medicaid and SSI (Supplemental Security Insurance). Here's cash for
your kids. Food stamps. Public housing. No work necessary. Stay on as long as
you want. We'll just tax our citizens more."

Arguing against the Senate bill, Feinstein spoke poignantly of a presumably
elderly Chinese immigrant walking down Grant Avenue in San Francisco, "so
hunched over, she could hardly walk. She is on SSI and would be summarily thrown
off."

The overlooked fact is that legal aliens have relatives already here who have
made a commitment to support the newcomers until they get on their feet. Most
sponsors do so. What is so "cruel" and "unnecessarily harsh" about requiring
them to look after their immigrant relatives? How is this different from going
after "deadbeat dads," a favorite liberal target?

As my father can tell you, America does not guarantee happiness, only the right
to pursue it. Many thousands of immigrants have come here to do that without
ever becoming wards of the government. As they prospered, however modestly, they
paid their taxes and became citizens; only then might they feel entitled to the
benefits to which they had contributed.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: DO IMMIGRANTS DESERVE HELP?
The welfare bill cuts off non-citizens unless they've been U.S. residents and
taxpayers for at least 10 years. Should legal immigrants be eligible for welfare
or medical benefits?
We'd especially like to hear from legal immigrants and sponsors. In 300 words or
less, tell us whether you agree or disagree with John Chih-Ming Liu. Is the law
fair? Will sponsors or ethnic communities be able to make up for the loss in
benefits?
Send your Immigrant Aid views by Monday, Aug. 12, to Jim Braly, 750 Ridder Park
Dr., San Jose, CA 95190, fax to 408-271-3792, or e-mail to
mn.comment(atsign)aol.com.OPINION
John Chih-Ming Liu is director of research and policy at the Pacific Research
Institute for Public Policy in San Francisco. He wrote this for the Los Angeles
Times.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 5, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

YOUNG GIRL IS VICTIM WHEN SYSTEM FAILS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 521 words


JUSTICE took many wrong turns in the case of Eric Umali, who is charged with
stabbing his 9-year-old neighbor in Redwood City.

Umali was on probation for molesting a child and was awaiting a deportation
hearing when he is alleged to have attacked Bertha Valencia. The case is
outrageous, and Bertha's mostly-immigrant neighbors are grasping for someone to
blame.

There is blame to share, but some lapses in the system were far more obvious and
preventable than others.

Umali had been convicted of molesting his 13-year-old nephew in 1993. That he
served only two years in jail underscores the difficulty in prosecuting crimes
against minors. Because the victims are considered unreliable, vulnerable and
sometimes unwilling witnesses, prosecutors often settle for lesser charges.
Umali pleaded no contest to lewd behavior. That was the first failure of the
justice system in this case.

The travesty of a short sentence was compounded after Alameda County Jail handed
Umali over to immigration officials for possible deportation. Although a
psychiatrist had written that Umali was psychologically disturbed and was a risk
to re-offend, an immigration judge set bail at only $2,500. Free on bond in
January, Umali went to live with his parents in Redwood City while awaiting a
deportation hearing set for March 1997.

This action by the immigration court is the most egregious failure of the
system. Umali could have been kept in custody and his hearing scheduled more
speedily.

After that point, it became much more difficult for the system to curb Umali. He
did not register with local police as a sex offender, as required by state law;
but when Alameda County probation officials caught up with him, they had no idea
he'd been causing problems and saw no reason to jail him. Neighbors say he had
terrorized them, but they had not called police. They say they should have been
told of his past - but a law in the state legislature that would reveal sex
offenders' addresses probably wouldn't apply in this case, since Umali's "lewd
behavior" conviction would not be a sufficiently serious offense.

Registration requirements for sex offenders can be a great crime-solving tool
and a possible deterrent. Santa Clara County has made it a priority to track
offenders down and let them know authorities are watching them. That seems to be
paying off. The county's rate of felony sex offenses last year declined by 25
percent over the previous year.

Alameda should emulate that policy - but it might not have prevented what
happened to Bertha. That was not a repeat sexual offense but an inexplicable,
berserk attack. Can warnings prevent someone from going crazy?

For confused and unnerved neighbors, the police and probation officials may seem
the closest and most obvious authorities to blame for what happened. But we
would place most of the blame earlier in Umali's journey: On a criminal justice
system that, for all the three-strikes grandstanding, often takes the first
strike too lightly; and on immigration controls that target maids and janitors
but see no urgency in deporting sex offenders.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Eric Umali
[960805 ED 6B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 SEPTEMBER 9, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COUNTY MAY PUSH CITIZENSHIP;
NATURALIZATION: THE NEW WELFARE LAW MAY LEAD TO AN UNUSUAL COUNTY PROGRAM.

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 790 words


In an effort to fend off serious financial strains upon its social services
system from federal welfare reform, Santa Clara County soon may take the unusual
step of helping immigrants become citizens.

More than 34,000 legal immigrants who are not citizens receive federally
supported welfare benefits in Santa Clara County. If they remain non-citizens,
lose their benefits and then go on general assistance, which comes out of local
tax dollars, it could cost the county tens of millions of dollars, officials
say.

But more than 17,000 of these immigrants are eligible to become U.S. citizens,
which would allow them to continue receiving federally funded welfare benefits.
Santa Clara County is believed to be the first in the Bay Area to consider
hiring people to encourage naturalization - in this case by helping to
streamline and speed up the six-month backlog of aspiring citizens at the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service in San Jose.

If recent weeks are any indication, the INS needs all the help it can get to
process the throngs of immigrants now seeking to become citizens.

In July, the office was receiving about 135 applications a day for
naturalization, said Sharon Rummery, director of public affairs for the San
Francisco district office of the INS. By early August, that number had jumped to
192 a day. And after Aug. 10, when President Clinton signed welfare reform into
law, applications surged to 237 a day.

Looking over applications

So Tuesday, the county board of supervisors is set to consider hiring a staff to
expedite naturalization applications for legal immigrants who face losing
federal benefits as soon as Jan. 1 - unless they become citizens.

Most of those eligible for citizenship are elderly, disabled, not proficient in
English and receive Social Security benefits, Supervisor Jim Beall said. About
60 percent are Vietnamese, many of whom came here as refugees. About 20 percent
are Latino.

"We're talking about people from war-torn countries we allowed to come here
under the sponsorship of the United States, and now the United States is saying
we won't provide for them, the counties have to," Beall said. "I find something
very wrong about that. This is a very frightening thing for these people. We're
going to try to ameliorate it by making as many people as desire to do so
citizens so they can continue to receive public benefits."

From federal to county aid

But in fact, these people could continue to receive public benefits -
county-funded benefits. And what Beall and other county officials are worried
about is that tens of thousands of welfare recipients will do just that,
replacing their federal aid with county aid.

County general-assistance programs are one of the last resorts for the
destitute. The programs provide an average of $300 a month for food and housing
to single people who don't qualify for other assistance.

In Santa Clara County, 3,700 people are receiving general assistance at a cost
of roughly $11 million annually, county administrator Kathy Gallagher has said.
If all the legal immigrants receiving welfare applied for help, the county
general-assistance rolls would increase tenfold.

Rummery of the INS declined to comment on the county's proposal. But she said
the agency already has found it worthwhile working with community-based
organizations such as Catholic Charities that also help immigrants through the
naturalization process.

Center for help

The county proposal, which would cost $140,000 annually, would provide a
one-stop center out of the county's human relations department where applicants
could find help in processing the form as well as get fingerprinted and
photographed.

By working with churches and community groups, this new service also could help
immigrants find programs to perfect their English, the biggest stumbling block
to passing the naturalization test and interview, according to the INS.
Currently, most local programs in English as a second language are at capacity,
Beall said.

The proposal was conceived by Beall and the county welfare task force, which he
chairs. Other counties may follow suit, he said.

County officials also plan to lobby congressional representatives to get the
federal government to hire more examiners at the San Jose INS office. There are
18 now, but that will be cut back to 10 in October unless more funding is
allocated, Beall said.

"Without the county doing this, a lot of people would be without public
assistance who are elderly and frail," Beall said. "This will have a very
negative effect from a human perspective and a fiscal impact on the county. It's
a very, very bad law that was passed. And we're facing the consequences now."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer S.L. Bachman contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 14, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITIZENSHIP PUSH DEFEATS WELFARE REFORM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 518 words


THE response by Santa Clara County Supervisor Jim Beall to the new welfare
reform bill (Page 1A, Sept. 9) demonstrates the ambivalence of American voters
to welfare reform. On one hand, we are willing to deny American citizens the
benefits provided by the welfare system. On the other, Beall proposes to take
extraordinary and unprecedented actions by the county to expedite the
naturalization process for legal immigrants "who face losing federal benefits as
soon as Jan. 1 - unless they become citizens."

Such a proposal illustrates the arrogance and disdain of politicians who are
unwilling to accept the full consequences of laws that are enacted. Also,
implied in the proposal is the belief that the primary purpose for which many
immigrants come to this country is to receive federal welfare. If this is true,
then why would an elected official encourage and support such conduct? If not
true, then Beall has provided a disservice to the legal immigrants by
misrepresenting their motives for immigrating to the United States.

- Milt Utley
San Jose
T HE purpose of federal welfare reform is plain and simple: Cut back on welfare
spending. There are 34,000 legal immigrants receiving welfare in Santa Clara
county, and 17,000 are supposedly eligible for citizenship. For Santa Clara
County to actively recruit these immigrants to become citizens so they can
continue to receive federal welfare defeats the entire purpose of welfare cuts.

Two generations ago my family came to this country as immigrants. They had to
have a job and a place to live before they were admitted to the U.S. They wanted
to become citizens and they worked hard to do it, learning English, and
providing for their own families. They did not collect welfare or any other
benefits. They became hard working, useful contributors to our society.

I support welfare reform. I support strict immigration quotas and requirements.
I am one of many, many Americans tired of supporting immigrants (legal and
illegal) who should be supporting themselves, while our schools and health care
for our own citizens continues to decline.

- Eva Runco
San Jose
I work with legal immigrants every day and they are great people. When one of
them becomes a citizen I get them an American flag, congratulate them and
welcome them to their new country. They usually have come here for a better
life, or to avoid persecution as my ancestors did. They work hard and make a
contribution to the community.

But people who become citizens for the sole purpose of staying on or getting on
welfare are despicable.

I am not opposed to giving people a hand and encourage people from foreign lands
to become citizens, but it must be done for the right reasons.

- S.K. Ham
Fremont
FOR years we have been told how beneficial immigration is to our economy. Now we
are told that 34,000 of these beneficial immigrants in our county are on welfare
and that we are going to spend even more public money to see that many of them
stay there.

With all due respect, I'm not sure how much more benefit I can afford.

- David McMullen
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A native of Mexico shields herself from the sun with an all-American bandanna
while reciting the Oath of Allegiance during a citizenship ceremony in Fresno
Monday.
[960914 ED 7B]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 16, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

CITIZENSHIP CLASSES INUNDATED;
FEAR OF IMPENDING WELFARE CUTS SPURS SIGNUPS BY LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1447 words


Legal immigrants are flooding citizenship and English classes throughout
California, panicked that federal reforms will cut off their welfare benefits
unless they become naturalized citizens.

Community centers that offer such programs have encountered as much as 1,000
percent increased demand in recent weeks. Many classes in English as a second
language, which already had long waiting lists, have stopped taking new names
altogether. And such organizations are scrambling to find money to hire more
instructors and increase teaching space, although some classroom vacancies still
exist.

The clamor is another sign that federal welfare reform is encouraging thousands
of non-citizen immigrants, many of them elderly, to seek citizenship or face the
loss of benefits beginning Jan. 1. Combined with a pre-existing surge in the
number of people seeking naturalization, the trend points to an unprecedented
immigrant citizenship boom.

Wednesday, in fact, the largest naturaliza tion ceremony ever held in San Jose
will swear in more than 10,000 people who applied for citizenship six or more
months ago. Other cities in California also have recently staged naturalization
assemblies of record-breaking size.

By the time the fiscal year ends Sept. 30, nearly 1.1 million U.S. immigrants
will have become citizens, shattering last year's record 445,853
naturalizations, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
previous record was in 1944, when 441,979 foreign-born residents became U.S.
citizens.

Managed to get by, so far

The trend represents a sweeping change for immigrants who have put off becoming
citizens or even learning English because they've managed to get by without it -
often by relying on other family members as translators.

"Before, there was nothing to encourage them to do so," said Debbie Trent,
executive director of the Literary Alliance for the South Bay. "Voting
pamphlets, street signs and stores operate in their own language, so if they're
in their own community, they haven't felt the need to learn."

To become a naturalized citizen, a legal immigrant must be at least 18,
understand basic English, have a knowledge of the rudiments of U.S. history and
government, and have lived in the United States for at least five years or be
married to a citizen for at least three years. Permanent residents who are 50
years old and have held a work permit for 20 years, or 55 years old with a green
card for 15 years, can take the exam in their native language.

But many legal immigrants don't qualify to do that. And that's why they have
inundated the English classes.

"People are so worried," said Dat Nguyen, executive director of the Vietnamese
American Cultural and Social Council, who has noticed a tenfold increase in the
number of people calling about its U.S. history and government classes for
would-be citizens.

"Some have been here 10 years and thought there was no difference between a
green card and citizenship because they still pay taxes no matter what," he
said. "But after Clinton signed the law, they all started calling."

Shortly after President Clinton said he would sign the Welfare Reform Act, the
number of students at each of the English and citizenship classes offered daily
by the Vietnamese American Council more than doubled. With only one part-time
and a couple of volunteer teachers, the center is struggling to meet the growing
demand, Nguyen said.

And that demand could be extraordinary. In Santa Clara County alone, there are
34,000 legal immigrants who are not citizens who receive federal welfare
benefits. More than 17,000 are eligible to become U.S. citizens, according to
county officials.

Sharp daily increase

Many already are flocking to the Immigration and Naturalization Service in San
Jose. In July, that office received 135 applications a day for naturalization,
local agency spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said. After Aug. 10, applications surged
to 237 a day.

Applications also have climbed 75 percent in Sacramento, she said, from 70 per
day in July to 123 per day after Aug. 10. And applications are up a massive 184
percent in the agency's Fresno office, from a total of 2,057 in July to 5,834 in
August.

Santa Clara County's Metropolitan Adult Education Program served more than
11,000 students in its spring English and citizenship classes, and vacancies
still exist in its fall program, for which registration is now under way.

But getting into a class won't be as easy at the Literacy Alliance, a non-profit
umbrella organization for literacy services in the Bay Area. It has seen a 30
percent jump in the demand for English classes in the past few weeks. About half
the calls are from new immigrants, the rest from long-term residents. In the 25
programs in English as a second language that the alliance oversees in six Bay
Area counties, but primarily in Santa Clara County, about 17,000 students are
enrolled and 5,000 people are on waiting lists, Trent said.

Those people face a wait of anywhere from three months to a year, depending on
the program. It's gotten so bad that since May, more and more programs have
stopped adding names to their lists, Trent said.

Could lose benefits

"My guess is the demand for ESL classes could double," Trent said. "This will
have a tremendous impact, and we don't have the resources, the classrooms, the
teachers for this. We could see a lot of people losing benefits because they
can't get into a program in time."

Finding money to expand the English classes will be a challenge. For many
literacy programs, federal and state funding already has been slashed 25 percent
in the past few years, Trent said. And after next June, the state Department of
Education will eliminate adult education funding, which constitutes more than 70
percent of funding for some adult literacy organizations, she added.

The story is the same at citizenship classes. At Catholic Charities of Santa
Clara County, the number of Vietnamese-Americans in its six citizenship classes
has skyrocketed 100 percent in the past month, said Theresa Castellanos, the
organization's citizenship coordinator. The number of Latinos has jumped 50
percent.

Although the agency doesn't have a waiting list yet, it is expecting one.
Already, it has applied for new grants that could help fund 10 more classes.

Catholic Charities and CET Job Training Center also will host Free Citizenship
Day on Oct. 26, the first such event in Santa Clara County. The communitywide
effort, held at CET's office in San Jose's Gardner neighborhood, will offer help
in filling out naturalization applications, and free photo and fingerprinting
services.

In response to the demand, the YWCA in downtown San Jose also will begin
offering ESL and citizenship classes this month.

And on cable TV, the International Channel is presenting a one-hour program,
"U.S. Citizenship: A Dream Come True," on consecutive Saturdays through Sept.
28. The show, in English, Cantonese, Mandarin, Korean, Vietnamese and Spanish,
provides information on becoming a citizen.

Norm Matloff, a University of California, Davis professor and a proponent of
immigration reform, says it's good that more immigrants are learning English and
becoming naturalized. But he argues that many of those who are doing so just to
maintain federal welfare benefits shouldn't be getting those supplements in the
first place. About 45 percent of elderly immigrants in California are on
welfare, he said.

Pledge by sponsors

"The vast majority of the elderly just should not be getting this," Matloff
said. "They and their sponsors have pledged on immigration forms that they won't
go on welfare if they come here."

At the Santa Cruz County Immigration Project, a non-profit agency providing
services to low-income residents, many of those now applying for naturalization
are choosing to become citizens to effect change in a political climate they
believe is targeting all immigrants, said the agency's executive director, Jane
Yokoyama.

"People are angry that they're being blamed for everything," said Yokoyama, who
noted that applications have shot up fourfold in the past three weeks. "They
feel totally assaulted. There's a clear understanding that their lives are at
risk and their families' lives are at risk and they need to take action."

Some immigrants also have delayed becoming naturalized for other reasons.

"It's a really big step," Castellanos said. "And if you're working two jobs at
minimum wage, as a lot of immigrants are, you don't have a lot of time to study
for the test. Your citizenship of your homeland also is part of your identity.
It's hard to give that up."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story on page 14A
Mercury News Staff Writer S.L. Bachman and Mercury News wire services
contributed to this report.

CORRECTION-DATE: SEPTEMBER 17, 1996

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 9/17/96, pg. 2A)
In an article on Page 14A in Monday's newspaper about citizenship classes in San
Jose, the location of Wednesday's naturalization ceremony was incorrect. It will
be at the San Jose Arena.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 24, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BAY AREA COUNTIES DENYING FOOD STAMPS

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 603 words


Bay Area counties began denying food stamps to newly applying immigrants Monday
as the first provisions of the complex new federal welfare law took effect. It
was the initial phase of a process that will ultimately strip benefits from half
a million non-citizens nationally.

But local officials appeared grateful for last week's last-minute federal
decision permitting them to delay suspending food stamps to those immigrants who
already receive them.

The Wilson administration had told counties to begin denying food stamps to
legal immigrants beginning Monday, 30 days after President Clinton signed a
landmark federal welfare reform law on Aug. 22. Then federal officials suddenly
notified California that they wouldn't yet enact that portion of the law.

The unaffected reforms proceeded as planned, however, and early Monday, county
officials began stacking new food stamp applications from non-citizens in
separate piles, awaiting word from their superiors on how to handle them.

"We are under instructions to issue denials to new applicants" who have not been
in the country for five years, said Kathy Gallagher, chief administrative
officer for Santa Clara County's social services agency.

Welfare officials in San Mateo County also began turning away immigrant
applicants. San Mateo County Human Services finance director John Joy said any
application from a legal immigrant dated later than Sept. 22 will be rejected.

In spite of predictions that the last-minute federal policy change would lead to
confusion, Joy said, there was little uncertainty about how to deny new
applicants benefits. But confusion reigned over when legal immigrants who
already receive benefits will lose them. Joy said he didn't know if recipients
will lose their food stamps when they go to their annual benefits interview, or
at the end of the month when the county submits its monthly report to the
federal government.

Wilson's press secretary, Sean Walsh, said California will not begin cutting off
food stamps for legal immigrants who already receive them until federal
officials give states the green light.

"This is either total incompetence on the part of the federal government or,
more likely, political games being played out in an election year by the Clinton
administration," Wilson himself said, referring to correspondence between his
state and the administration over when the food stamp provision should take
effect.

It wasn't just Clinton's GOP critics who saw presidential politics in the
administration's delay. "We expect that we'll hear something definite after the
election," Gallagher said.

The food stamp provisions of welfare reform, which have received less attention
than other parts of the law, are key to the success of the measure. They are
expected to provide half of the expected $54 billion in savings from the bill
over the next six years. Cutbacks of other benefits to immigrants account for
most of the rest.

States could lose millions of dollars if they fail to implement the provisions.
The Agriculture Department imposes strict financial penalties on states that
pass out food stamps to people who are actually ineligible. But under the new
law, figuring out who qualifies becomes much more complicated: Non-citizen legal
immigrants can receive food stamps, for example, if they are new refugees,
veterans or legal residents who have worked 10 years in the United States
without receiving any federal means-tested benefits.

Implementing these changes seemed to be proving the most difficult in
California, which has 40 percent of the nation's immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News staff writers Hallye Jordan, Jennifer Mena and Tini Tran
contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 25, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SHIFT PLEASES WHITE HOUSE PLAN TO LET STATES DENY SCHOOLING HAS BEEN
SHELVED

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 665 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The White House said Tuesday that Republicans removed President Clinton's major
objection to a sweeping immigration bill by grudgingly dumping a plan that would
allow states to bar public education to illegal immigrants, increasing the
likelihood he would sign it.

"It's a step in the right direction. Removing (the education ban) meets the
president's primary objection to the bill," said a White House source, noting
that Clinton was still seeking some adjustments to the hard-fought measure,
which has become ensnared in presidential politics.

But Democratic lawmakers, protesting furiously about secret, 11th-hour changes
to the legislation by a Republican-controlled conference committee, stepped up
demands for its defeat, arguing that it amounted to a backdoor assault on legal
immigrants.

The Democratic disaffection - and the importance of immigration reform to
California voters - present an election-year dilemma for Clinton not unlike his
acceptance this summer of a politically popular welfare bill that angered
liberals.

The House-Senate conference committee approved the immigration measure Tuesday
over the objections of crimson-faced, table-pounding Democrats, who argued that
the rewritten measure was harsher than bills that easily cleared the House and
the Senate earlier this year.

Among the Democrats' objections are provisions that toughen the financial
requirements for sponsors of legal immigrants, mandating that they earn up to
twice the poverty level; allow for the deportation of refugees who arrive
without proper travel papers; exempt immigration officials from environmental
laws when they build roads and fences near the border; and allow for the
deportation of legal immigrants if they use some forms of public assistance,
such as child care, for more than a year.

Overall, the bill would double the number of Border Patrol agents over five
years, mete out harsher penalties for smuggling and counterfeiting of documents,
and create a voluntary program to help employers verify the immigration status
of potential employees.

Final votes in the House and Senate are expected later this week as Congress
races to complete its work and head home for re-election campaigns.

"This bill does more to hurt American citizens and legal immigrants than it does
to stop illegal immigration," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. "And it should
be defeated."

The bill is expected to pass the House easily, and Kennedy conceded Tuesday that
Democrats would face an "uphill battle" derailing it in the Senate.

California Sen. Dianne Feinstein was the only Democrat to support the conference
committee report, and she said she would work for the bill's passage in the
Senate.

Immigration-rights groups said they are hoping the immigration bill falls victim
to the congressional stampede toward adjournment and that it gets wrapped into
an omnibus spending bill, which would allow amendments that Clinton and
Democratic lawmakers seek.

Republicans said the education language that was dropped Tuesday would be
resurrected as a stand-alone bill. But most likely it will not be brought to a
vote before Congress adjourns. Even if it did, it faces almost certain defeat in
the Senate.

For months the education provisions had been a sticking point among immigration
negotiators, and GOP presidential candidate Bob Dole had insisted that the
education ban remain part of the bill, figuring it would force Clinton to veto a
bill popular in voter-rich California.

Dole, in a letter to Republican congressional leaders, said he now supports the
idea of severing the education language from the main immigration bill.

"President Clinton should sign both measures," Dole wrote. "However, if the
liberal Democrats in Congress block consideration of (the education bill), then
the citizens of California will know whom to blame - a liberal president who
feels no compunction about inflicting a multibillion-dollar burden on
California's taxpayers."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IMMIGRATION REFORM
Provisions of an immigration-reform bill approved by a House-Senate conference
committee Tuesday and now awaiting final votes in both chambers:
At the border
Adds 5,000 agents over the next five years, plus 1,500 support personnel.
Makes high-speed flight from an immigration checkpoint a felony punishable by up
to five years' imprisonment.
Immigrants removed from the United States once for entering illegally will be
barred from entering legally for five years.
On the job
Adds at least 450 immigration agents to investigate employers who hire illegal
immigrants.
Deletes previously approved addition of U.S. Department of Labor agents to
investigate wage-and-hour violations that often accompany immigrant hiring.
Creates three voluntary pilot programs for employers to verify legal-immigrant
status of employees.
Makes proof of a discrimination claim against a potential employer more
difficult by requiring job applicant to show that the employer purposefully
intended to break anti-discrimination laws.
In the community
Raises the income requirement for naturalized citizens and legal immigrants who
wish to bring family members into the United States. Sponsors must earn 140
percent of poverty level to sponsor spouses and minor children and 200 percent
to sponsor parents and siblings.
Requires the U.S. attorney general to collect information from colleges and
universities on non-immigrant students from certain countries.
Imposes time limits on legal immigrants' eligibility for certain public benefits
and raises income requirements for immigrants to qualify for other programs.
Exceptions are made for emergency medical assistance and veterans' benefits.
Deletes House provision that would have allowed states to curtail free public
education to children living illegally in the United States.
Source: Cox News Service

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 28, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATE, WHITE HOUSE HASH OUT IMMIGRATION AND BUDGET BILLS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With a Monday deadline looming, Senate leaders continued to wrangle with the
White House on Friday over proposed changes to pending immigration legislation
and a budget bill containing more than $600 billion in funds for the next fiscal
year.

"I think we're about three hiccups away from an immigration deal, but anything
and everything can happen," a White House official said. "There are five
legislators and one White House staffer in a room. I think all of them can see
the goal line."

Although details remained cloudy, Republican leaders suggested they might
consider making concessions sought by President Clinton in the portion of the
legislation affecting legal immigrants. The White House wants to remove a
provision that would restrict public benefits to legal immigrants to a greater
extent than the recently passed welfare reform bill. Clinton also objects to
language raising the minimum income that citizens must earn to sponsor immigrant
relatives who want to enter the country.

Although the House passed the immigration legislation this week, Clinton is
attempting to alter the bill in the Senate by linking it to the year-end budget
measure that lawmakers must pass before they can return home to run for
re-election.

White House aides complain that after agreeing to remove restrictions on legal
immigrants from their immigration bills earlier this year, House and Senate
members are now trying to resurrect them during closed-door caucus meetings.
"Legal immigration does not belong in an illegal-immigration bill," one
administration official said.

If no agreement is reached by Monday afternoon, Senate leaders will set aside
Clinton's concerns and proceed to a vote on the House-passed immigration bill
late Monday or Tuesday.

On the budget talks, negotiations ground on into the night. Tired bargainers had
resumed at midmorning Friday with only a few hours' sleep, after carrying the
previous day's talks until just a few hours before dawn.

Negotiators were hoping for a deal that would allow the House to vote today. If
that occurred, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., said a Senate vote
would follow Monday.

Congress has sent President Clinton seven of the 13 spending bills required to
finance government operations in fiscal 1997. Negotiators are wrapping the
remaining six bills - totaling roughly $200 billion in domestic spending and
$245 billion for the military - into one huge, must-pass package.

It would provide funds for foreign aid, federal courts and the departments of
Defense, Treasury, Labor, Health and Human Services, Interior, Commerce, Justice
and State.

All sides swore they would avoid a repeat of last year's government shutdowns,
politically disastrous for Republicans. But Republicans angrily complained that
Democrats and the administration were overreaching, insisting on winning
virtually all points.

Among the bills passed and sent to Clinton was a three-year extension of a law
designed to halt depletion of the nation's fisheries. The bill, which Clinton is
expected to sign, would establish management plans for determining when an area
is overfished and how overfished areas should be revitalized.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 29, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL LOSES ITS BITE CRACKDOWN TARGETS BORDER, NOT BENEFITS

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1113 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A hard-fought immigration measure moving toward President Clinton's desk mounts
a popular, aggressive fight at the nation's borders, but it lacks punch against
those who manage to steal into the United States.

The measure was put together in the wee hours Saturday by congressional
negotiators and the White House as part of a catch-all spending package that
cleared the House, 370-37, Saturday night. The Senate is expected to approve it
Monday.

The measure contains less bite than Republicans promised when they gained the
majority in Congress two years ago.

Then, in the wake of California's overwhelming approval of a statewide ballot
measure to deny most public benefits to illegal immigrants, GOP leaders were
poised to deliver the most restrictive rewrite of the nation's immigration laws
since 1924.

"What we got is certainly more modest than that," said Philip Martin, an
immigration expert at the University of California, Davis. "This adds a bunch of
people to the border patrol and it reinforces a series of restrictions that
already were laid down in the welfare-reform bill."

What has emerged in the final days of the 104th Congress, while unmistakably
tough against those who unlawfully cross U.S. borders, was a middling measure,
the product of a divided government's compromise.

"This is but a start," said Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., the bill's co-author.
"This issue will be before us for years and years."

The bill calls for 1,000 new border-patrol agents every year for the next five
years. It would create a pilot program so that employers who volunteer can check
the eligibility status of job applicants and toughen penalties for smuggling and
document counterfeiting. It also calls for a triple fence along the U.S.-Mexico
border near San Diego.

Benefits stay

Although House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Saturday that Republicans got 90
percent of what they wanted in their bid to get tough at the border, the White
House got the GOP to abandon efforts to deny further benefits to legal
immigrants.

"We're satisfied we have measures that will continue to protect America's
borders while setting the right kind of standards for legal immigrants," said
White House press secretary Michael McCurry.

For example, language that called for the deportation of legal immigrants who
use federal benefits, such as child care, for more than 12 months over seven
years was dropped as negotiations wrapped up early Saturday morning.

A Republican plan to increase by up to 100 percent the financial requirements of
those who sponsor legal immigrants to the United States was watered down to a 25
percent hike. And the bill now allows a co-sponsor's income to be counted,
enhancing a new immigrant's chances of meeting U.S. income rules.

Many immigration experts say the measure is most notable for what it will not
do. Gone are provisions, promised in the heady days of 1994, that would have
severely cut legal immigration, and would have moved toward a nationwide
verification system, using computers to check on the eligibility status of
virtually all job applicants.

Inspectors gone

And gone, too, is a Democrat-backed plan for 350 extra Labor Department
wage-and-hour inspectors to crack down on employers who exploit illegal workers.

"It's a far less obnoxious bill, but it's still pathetically weak at patrolling
the workplace," said Rep. Howard Berman, D-Mission Hills, one of the immigration
bill's chief negotiators.

"Half a loaf is better than none," said Richard Estrada, a member of the U.S.
Commission on Immigration Reform, which called an effective verification system
the key to illegal immigration control and later endorsed cuts in legal
immigration.

"Beefing up the border patrol is a very important idea," Estrada said. "But it
still ignores the problem that as long as you don't seriously challenge
work-site verification, the message continues to go down the alien pipeline that
if you can only get into the country, you'll have a job. And that increases
tensions along the border."

Demetrios Papademetriou, director of the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, said because the welfare reform bill already severely restricts legal
immigrants from many public benefits and because Clinton has already won
approval to boost funding for more border-patrol agents, there is less to this
year's immigration bill than meets the eye.

"You don't need this bill to get 97 percent of the effect," Papademetriou said.
"If you wanted to send a message to the entire universe that immigrants should
have no privileges until they're citizens, we've already done that. The cake is
already baked. This is really unnecessary stuff."

GOP defends measure

But Republicans, who have said the country is fed up with its porous borders,
now say they have addressed the national demand to beef up the border even if
they lost a last-minute effort to bar illegal immigrant children from U.S.
public schools.

"This will make the most significant illegal immigration control in a generation
the law of the land," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House
immigration subcommittee.

But that was not enough for the most vociferous of the immigration
restrictionists, who said immigration negotiators caved in to big-money
interests, such as high-tech lobbyists, and left gaping holes in the country's
immigration laws.

"We wanted a Cadillac and got a Chevy," said Dan Stein, executive director of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Among many provisions dropped from the bill was one that would have greatly
reduced the number of highly skilled immigrant workers allowed into the country
each year. Those workers are frequently employed by leading-edge,
high-technology firms that argue they can't survive without them.

Lobbyists on both sides of the debate say the drive for a more dramatic
revamping of U.S. immigration laws lost steam once it was clear that Republicans
were not going to be able to use the antipathy toward illegal immigration as a
weapon against legal immigrants.

"They thought the American people were too stupid to understand the difference,"
said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum. "They
thought the anger that came out of (California's) Proposition 187 would be
easily translated into anger toward legal immigration and that just failed.

"Two years ago, it looked like the end of immigration as we know it. But as the
debate went from the two extremes of 'everybody in' or 'everybody out' we found
the distinction between immigration that is regulated and controlled and illegal
immigration, which we all agree is a problem."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Spending bill appeases both sides PAGE 14A

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 1, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

$389 BILLION SPENDING BILL BECOMES LAW OF THE LAND FINAL OK: CLINTON'S SIGNATURE
MEANS THERE'LL BE NO REPEAT OF LAST YEAR'S FEDERAL SHUTDOWN.

BYLINE: ALAN FRAM, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 665 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With just hours to spare Monday, the Senate passed and President Clinton signed
a $389 billion spending bill for scores of federal agencies and an overhaul of
immigration laws, the Republican-led 104th Congress' last major piece of
legislation.

Clinton signed the measure little more than two hours before today's start of
the 1997 fiscal year, ensuring there would be no repeat of last year's partial
government shutdown when agencies' spending authority lapsed.

The catchall bill, approved 84-15 by the Senate in early evening, contains $6.5
billion in extra money that Clinton demanded for education, drug-fighting and
other programs and pushes overall spending nearly as high as it was before
Republicans captured Congress two years ago.

It also drops GOP-written immigration provisions that the White House argued
were too severe, such as one barring federally paid AIDS care for illegal
immigrants.

In a signing statement, Clinton called the bill "good for America," because it
ensures substantial amounts of money for education and training, environmental
protection and law enforcement.

"It moves us further toward our goal of a balanced budget while protecting our
values and priorities - educating our children, providing a clean environment,
fighting crime, protecting our families from drugs, and combating terrorism," he
said.

GOP complaints

But Republicans complained that the legislation failed to achieve some of the
spending reductions the GOP had hoped for.

"Did we add more spending than we wanted? Yes," said Senate Majority Leader
Trent Lott, R-Miss. "The Democrats love spending. They never saw a spending
increase they didn't worship. . . . But I think, all things considered, good
work has been done."

Forty-six Democrats - including Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer of
California - and 38 Republicans voted for the spending-and-immigration package
in the Senate; one Democrat and 14 Republicans opposed it.

The House approved the measure Saturday, 370-37, and with a pre-election
adjournment approaching, most of its members immediately left Washington.

While bent on speeding home for their re-election races, senators saw their
hopes for quick adjournment dashed by a dispute over a separate bill authorizing
air traffic systems. Democrats complained that it contained language to help
Federal Express prevent its truck drivers from unionizing. They used
parliamentary tactics to delay a vote on the bill until at least Thursday,
giving them time to debate the Federal Express language.

Parks bill

Also percolating was a parks bill making dozens of land exchanges, boundary
changes and new designations of memorials and historic sites. Most were not
controversial, but behind-the-scenes battles over adding additional provisions
persisted. The House approved it Saturday, 404-4.

Included in the parks bill are provisions to set up a trust fund to manage and
preserve San Francisco's 1,400-acre Presidio and to authorize more than $400
million over three years to replenish the San Francisco Bay Delta.

The spending and immigration measures were combined into a single bill that with
its explanatory report totaled 3,000 pages.

Its spending provisions will finance nine Cabinet-level departments plus other
lower-level agencies. It contains $244 billion for defense and $145 billion for
annually approved domestic programs.

Restoring funds

In an election-year drive to soften their image, congressional Republicans used
the legislation to restore spending for programs they had tried to cut since
last year.

For example, they ended up giving the Department of Education $28.8 billion for
1997, $800 million more than even Clinton requested for an agency that House
Republicans initially wanted to eliminate.

The immigration measure will make it harder for foreigners to illegally enter
and stay in the country by boosting law enforcement efforts and reducing
benefits they can receive.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Washington Post contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle briefs reporters before the Senate
approved the $389 billion spending bill Monday.
[961001 FR 10A 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 3, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS CLEARS IBM ON IMPORTED HELP

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 855 words


Immigration officials said Wednesday that they were satisfied that IBM did not
violate the law by using visas generally reserved for training to import Mexican
workers who assembled disk drives at Third World wages in its San Jose plant.

"We reviewed their documents and received a clarification of the company's
training program," said Sharon Rummery, an official in the San Francisco office
of the INS. "Based on our preliminary inquiry, the INS is satisfied that the B-1
visas were used appropriately and that IBM is in compliance with the law."

Rummery said immigration officers from the San Jose office met with IBM
officials Tuesday to go over allegations from IBM employees that the world's
largest computer maker had misused business visas obtained to bring the workers
to the United States. IBM said the workers were here legally, for training.

"Needless to say, IBM is pleased," said Cary Ziter, spokesman for IBM in San
Jose. "Their statement speaks volumes and I don't think we'll go beyond that.
It's closed as far as we can tell."

But Rummery said INS officials had not decided whether to close the inquiry. She
said she had no information on what documents were reviewed or whether
immigration officials interviewed IBM assembly workers. The IBM worker in San
Jose who alerted federal officials to the situation said he was never
interviewed by INS investigators.

No procedure

And even as the INS was awarding IBM a clean bill of health, that employee said
that if IBM did import workers from its Guadalajara plant as a training
exercise, the company didn't follow its own rigorous training procedures.

Normally, training of IBM workers on the assembly line is carefully documented,
according to worker Gilbert Rodriguez. IBM has been certified as adhering to an
international quality-management system, known as ISO-9000, a
Good-Housekeeping-type seal for business organizations that is widely embraced
by American industry.

"The ISO-9000 rules are companywide and it's like a bible," Rodriguez said.

These standards, to which many Silicon Valley firms subscribe, require that
training procedures be carefully documented, according to Richard James,
director of conformity assessment at the American National Standards Institute,
one of five permanent bodies of ISO-9000. Officials at Intel Corp. and Quantum
Corp., for instance, confirmed that as ISO-9000 participants, they keep rigorous
documentation any time an employee receives training.

Work not monitored

At IBM, Rodriguez said, ISO-9000 standards mean that trainers initially monitor
trainees' work on scrap material rather than final products. Later, a third
party tests the trainee to see if the new procedures have been learned properly.
The entire process - the names of the trainer, the trainee and the certifier;
the written material provided to the trainee; the new procedures learned; and
the precise dates and hours of training - are documented in written records that
are kept in the work area where the training occurs, he said.

When the Mexican workers were brought in to begin work on Aug. 2, however,
Rodriguez said, "there were no trainers and no certifiers and no documentation."

"They were never trained," he said. "They were working on final product the
first day they came."

IBM's Ziter, who praised the INS for reaching its conclusion so swiftly,
declined to comment on the company's training procedures.

Earlier Wednesday in Washington, D.C., Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.,
questioned INS Commissioner Doris Meissner about IBM's practices at a hearing of
the Senate subcommittee on immigration.

"I think it's important that companies not get started misusing visas to be able
to pay cheap labor in the United States and therefore deny legitimate workers in
our country those jobs," Feinstein told Meissner. "This one case, I don't know
what the answer is. But I think this one case joins the issue very clearly."

Ziter has acknowledged that IBM routinely brings in foreign workers for training
programs.

$1.40 an hour

A Mexican supervisor and worker, two of 10 workers who labored seven days a week
at the Cottle Road facility for roughly $1.40 per hour, told the Mercury News
the work they did in San Jose was "exactly" the same as their work in
Guadalajara. The company, which paid for the workers' transportation and living
expenses while here, said the workers were brought in on business visas for
training and not to meet production demands.

It was "illogical," Ziter said earlier this week, to believe the company would
bring in 10 workers from Mexico for production in a plant that employs 5,000.
There are usually anywhere from 30-40 workers in the head-stack assembly area,
where the Mexican workers were assigned, according to a U.S. worker also
assigned there.

IBM workers said an earlier group of 23 Mexicans, who also had worked seven days
a week for a three-month stretch, returned to Guadalajara a month ago. They said
Guadalajara workers rotate in to IBM's U.S. plants as needed to meet production
needs.

The Mexican workers returned to Guadalajara last weekend.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Thomas Farragher of the Mercury News Washington Bureau contributed to
this report.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  OCTOBER 4, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS WON'T LOSE FOOD STAMPS YET

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Legal immigrants who receive food stamps, facing the loss of those benefits
because of new federal welfare rules, will keep that aid until spring because of
language tucked into the immigration bill President Clinton signed Monday.

At the White House's insistence, the immigration measure makes it clear that
legal immigrants now receiving food stamps can continue receiving them until
April 1.

That new deadline was Congress' attempt to wipe out confusion caused by a
patchwork of different food-stamp cutoff dates set by states from Virginia to
California after the welfare bill was signed into law by Clinton last month.

"This was not something the Republicans wanted, but the president held the
illegal-immigration bill hostage until he got this provision," said a
representative for Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House immigration
subcommittee.

The provision further sidetracks Gov. Pete Wilson's bid to fully implement the
food-stamp restrictions - an effort he began last month but was forced to
abandon indefinitely after federal officials suddenly notified California that
they wouldn't yet enact that portion of the law.

Unaffected by the last-minute change are legal immigrants who are new applicants
for food stamps. California counties are already denying those claims.

The Wilson administration, which lampooned the latest twist in federal
food-stamp policy, said it would use the extension to plan for a smooth
transition toward a new food-stamp policy. More than 400,000 legal immigrants in
California now receive food stamps.

The food-stamp provisions of welfare reform, which have received less attention
than other parts of the law, are key to the success of the measure. They are
expected to provide half of the expected $54 billion in savings from the bill
over the next six years. Cutbacks of other benefits to immigrants account for
most of the rest.

States could lose millions of dollars if they fail to implement the provisions.
The Agriculture Department imposes strict financial penalties on states that
give food stamps to people who are actually ineligible. But under the new law,
figuring out who qualifies becomes much more complicated.

Non-citizen legal immigrants can continue to receive food stamps, for example,
if they are new refugees, veterans or legal residents who have worked 10 years
in the United States without receiving any federal means-tested benefits.

Implementing these changes seemed to be proving the most difficult in
California, which has 40 percent of the nation's immigrants.

While Wilson has long sought to restrict benefits to legal and illegal
immigrants, some Democrats said his eagerness to swiftly deny food stamps to
legal immigrants stemmed from his desire to embarrass Clinton in the weeks
before Election Day by tossing thousands of needy people out on the street.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 5, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATOR CHALLENGES LAW ON EXPATRIATES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 82 words


A new law allowing immigration authorities to bar re-entry to the United States
to Americans who flee abroad to avoid U.S. taxes violates international law,
Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan contended Friday. Moynihan, D-N.Y., said the
provision which passed with little notice in Congress' final days violates the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, a treaty signed by the
United States. The new law is part of the immigration bill that President
Clinton signed last week.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 20, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A COUNTY BOOST FOR CITIZENS-TO-BE

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1016 words


Immigration attorney Richard Hobbs settled into his unique new job last week, in
a tiny basement room deep in the bowels of the Santa Clara County Government
Center Building.

Hobbs can't fathom a better spot to launch what he believes to be the first
county program in the nation to encourage legal immigrants to become citizens.

"Working in Human Resources in the basement of the county building is very
appropriate," Hobbs said. "We need to assist legal immigrants from the bottom
up. They are in the basement of our society."

He should know. For the past six years as director of the immigration program at
Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County, Hobbs, 46, has acted as advocate and
legal representative for a host of newcomers struggling to make a new life in
this country.

He jokes that he left Catholic Charities supervisor Sister Marilyn Lacey for
county Human Relations Director Jim McEntee so that he could swap a boss who is
a nun for one who was a priest. Actually, he said, his new job will allow him to
have a greater effect on more immigrants.

He said he will have the responsibility, as the county's first director of
citizen and immigration programs, to stave off a potentially enormous drain on
the county as a result of federal welfare reform, as well as to enhance the
power of those who are powerless by helping them gain the right to vote.

More than 34,000 non-citizen legal immigrants receive federally supported
welfare benefits in the county. If they remain non-citizens, lose their benefits
and go on county-funded general assistance payments, it could cost the county
$90 million, officials say.

Notices to immigrants

But about 17,000 of the immigrants are eligible to become U.S. citizens, which
would allow them to continue receiving federally funded welfare benefits that
otherwise will be cut off Aug. 22.

Hobbs said his first task will be to send notices to all legal immigrants on
public assistance, to notify them that their benefits will be severed and to
inform them that citizenship is an alternative. He said he will work to secure
funds from foundations and the county board of supervisors for non-profit groups
to use to help immigrants fill out and pay for citizenship applications. And he
said he will review the county's English as a second language and citizenship
classes to determine how they can be improved and whether more are needed.

In this era of anti-immigrant fervor, Hobbs knows his job won't be popular with
everyone. Already county officials have fielded harsh calls from residents who
criticize the county for getting involved in naturalizing immigrants.

Hobbs calls such critics shortsighted.

"The county needs a system in place to allow people some dignity in their
lives," he said. "I don't believe in compassion fatigue or tough love. We live
in a society where people have lost a part of their humanity by focusing only on
themselves."

A workaholic

McEntee said he chose Hobbs for the job because of his legal skills and
community ties. A notorious workaholic, Hobbs can be found at his desk even on
Sunday nights and is famous for e-mailing colleagues at 4:30 a.m. and for
handwriting business proposals on camping trips.

Colleagues also say Hobbs is well-suited to this position because he knows well
what it is like to try to get ahead when the odds are against it.

Hobbs grew up in St. Louis. His parents divorced when he was 9. As a child he
cut school, vandalized property and stole from stores. Finally it caught up with
him. He was sent to reform school.

"I was 14, and I realized then I had to determine how I was going to spend the
rest of my life."

He decided to turn it around. He hunkered down in school and became senior class
president, captain of the track team and valedictorian. He was even voted Most
Likely to Succeed. He later worked as a janitor at the Mercury News and as a
peach sorter for Del Monte.

During this time his interest in Mexico and Latin America took hold. He traveled
to Uruguay as an exchange student, to Afghanistan and Ecuador as a Peace Corps
volunteer, and to Mexico for five years as a student, becoming fluent in
Spanish.

Meeting despair

The trips had a profound impact on him. In Afghanistan in the 1970s, where one
out of every two children died before age 1, he saw utter despair: a land where
people drank from the same water that they bathed in and urinated in. In Mexico
he saw people grappling to feed themselves and their family on $2-a-day wages.

After returning to the United States - settling in San Jose with his wife,
Melanie Okawachi, 41, systems lab manager for Stanford Hospital, and their two
children - he taught ESL classes for 10 years. He received a law degree from
Golden Gate University, then joined Catholic Charities.

"He has tremendous drive and personal dedication to helping the poor and the
vulnerable in society," said Sister Lacey, director of immigration, refugee and
youth services.

Always offering help

Lacey remembers how again and again Hobbs lent a helping hand. In one case this
year, a U.S.-born Mexican-American, 17, was turned away at the border when he
tried to cross back into this country with a U.S. birth certificate.

The teen-ager, who had gone to live with his grandmother in Mexico when he was
6, and who spoke broken English, went back to the border with other photo
identification. Still he was refused entry.

Hobbs found out, flew down and met with the Border Patrol. Five minutes later it
was straightened out, and the young man was reunited with his parents in San
Jose.

"This is what he really shines at, a situation where he just felt, 'Nobody is
going to get away with this,' " Lacey said.

This year Hobbs devised a precinct-level citizenship drive for the 95112 ZIP
code, the area of the county with the lowest household income. Every six weeks
he and other volunteers walked door-to-door through 10 precincts, trying to get
immigrants to become citizens and trying to get citizens to register to vote.

It is training that should serve him well in his new job.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Immigration attorney Richard Hobbs says, "Working in Human Resources in the
basement of the county building is very appropriate. We need to assist legal
immigrants from the bottom up. They are in the basement of our society."
[961020 LO 1B 2; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 24, 1996 Thursday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

COUNTY TO FURTHER CITIZEN EDUCATION ANTI-IMMIGRANT LAWS A FACTOR, OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: FRANCES DINKELSPIEL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 660 words


Alameda County officials, worried that upcoming changes in federal welfare laws
will push thousands onto the county's welfare rolls, plan to spend $100,000 in
the next three years to help legal immigrants become citizens.

By working with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, community groups and
adult schools, the county hopes to give 7,000 legal immigrants the tools they
need to become citizens. The newly sworn-in citizens, many of whom are elderly
or disabled, could then continue to collect Medi-Cal and SSI funds instead of
losing their federal aid.

"There are 14,000 legal immigrants who get some form of benefits," said Alameda
County Supervisor Wilma Chan. "We don't want those people to suffer. We
certainly don't want to have 14,000 people put in the situation of not getting
their basic needs met."

Welfare costs

It would cost the county $58 million annually if those immigrants turn to the
county's general assistance program for help, according to Social Services
Director Rodger Lum. The county would have to spend an additional $10 million in
related health care costs.

The new federal welfare bill signed into law by President Bill Clinton last
August cuts off all public assistance to legal immigrants, including Aid to
Families with Dependent Children and food stamps. Alameda County officials
estimate there are about 140,500 legal immigrants in the county, and about
14,000 to 17,000 get some form of federal aid. Most of these immigrants are
Chinese, Vietnamese, Mexican or Afghani and are clustered in Oakland and
Fremont, Chan said.

'Big trouble'

"There will be big trouble because there is no way any county can continue to
provide for current recipients and add those coming off the federal dole," said
Lum.

Since the welfare bill passed in August, local community organizations have seen
a large increase in the number of people applying to become citizens, according
to Sarah Clark, the citizenship coordinator for the International Institute of
the East Bay and coordinator of the East Bay Citizenship Network. For example,
the Spanish Speaking Citizens Foundation Youth and Family Services used to help
just a handful of legal immigrants become citizens each month, she said. But
last week, about 100 people crowded into the group's Oakland headquarters to
find out about classes, workshops and citizenship requirements.

The immigrants appear to be motivated more by the swelling anti-immigrant
sentiment in the country than by the looming loss of benefits, said Clark.

"They were feeling attacked," said Clark. "A lot of immigrants feel they have to
legitimize their existence by becoming citizens."

It's not a difficult or complex process to apply for citizenship, but elderly
and disabled people who aren't fluent in English are intimidated, she said. To
qualify, they need to speak English fairly fluently, know some American history,
and fill out government forms.

The government may waive the language requirement if the applicant is more than
50 years old and has lived here for 15 years.

Alameda County hopes to add to its $100,000 donation with another $400,000 from
foundations. The funds would help expand specialized services such as native
language citizenship classes, English language classes, INS interview
preparation, and application preparation classes. The county would also
advertise heavily in newspapers, on the radio and on television to encourage
immigrants to become citizens.

While Clark and others bemoan the recent surge in anti-immigrant sentiment, they
acknowledge the new law may be the nudge many legal immigrants need to become
citizens.

"One of the reasons immigrants don't apply is because of a loyalty to their
country and a feeling they may (one day) return to their country of origin,"
said Clark. "Once they've been here a while they realize they will stay, and in
order to stay in their new home they need to become a citizen."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 1, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE DELAYS WITHHOLDING OF FOOD STAMPS IMMIGRANTS: THE STATE MUST FIRST ADOPT
CLEAR REGULATIONS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


California's first efforts to cut off food stamps to legal immigrants were put
on hold Thursday by a judge who said the state must first adopt regulations.

The state directed county welfare offices in late September to begin denying new
food stamp applications from immigrants as part of the new federal welfare
overhaul.

But Sacramento Superior Court Judge John R. Lewis issued a preliminary
injunction that will force the state to resume accepting applications, at least
for the time being.

Lewis sided with welfare rights advocates, who argued that the state moved too
quickly and failed to adopt clear rules about which immigrants would qualify for
exemptions.

"I think this sends a very important message to the state (that) when they're
implementing the new reform measure, they have to do so in an orderly fash ion,"
said Curtis Child of Northern California Lawyers for Civil Justice, which sought
the injunction.

Appeal prospects unclear

Attorneys for the state declined comment outside the courtroom, and it was not
immediately clear if they planned to appeal.

Gov. Pete Wilson said the ruling would have little effect because the state has
submitted fast-track regulations to the state Office of Administrative Law.

"I think it was kind of a fool's errand for the people who brought the lawsuit
because all they have succeeded in doing is delaying the inevitable by about 10
days," Wilson told reporters.

Nonetheless, he said the state would appeal.

The new federal law cuts off food stamps for legal immigrants, with exceptions
for those who are political refugees, veterans, in the armed services or who
have worked in the country for at least 10 years.

Rules called confusing

However, Child said the rules were so confusing that counties were applying them
differently and that some immigrants who were eligible for food stamps might not
get them.

He argued the state was required to go through a formal process of adopting
regulations, including holding a public hearing. The process takes at least two
months.

The state Department of Social Services submitted regulations to an
administrative law judge last Friday, and state lawyers argued that was enough
to meet legal requirements.

Deputy Attorney General Paul Reynaga argued in court that public hearings would
not change the food stamp restrictions.

The class-action lawsuit did not challenge the constitutionality of the food
stamp restrictions, only whether the state was following the correct procedures
to implement them.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Gov. Pete Wilson
Calls the lawsuit a "'fool's errand."'
[961101 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 7, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOOD STAMP RULING CLARIFIED IMMIGRANTS CAN BE APPROVED FOR AID DURING COURT
FIGHT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


A judge says the state must follow a court order to keep approving food stamps
to legal immigrants, even though the order is being appealed.

The state Department of Social Services contended the ruling issued last week by
Sacramento Superior Court Judge John R. Lewis was stayed during its appeal.

But Lewis said Tuesday that his preliminary injunction remains in effect until
the matter is decided by a state appellate court.

Welfare rights advocates had asked the judge for clarification.

Curtis Child of Northern California Lawyers for Civil Justice accused the state
of being "obstructive."

"It's legal gamesmanship," Child said. "Really what they're trying to do is get
around that preliminary injunction. Whether there was some political call made
on that I don't know. But this court made it clear that it intended for the
state to comply with the preliminary injunction."

A Social Services Department spokeswoman was not immediately available for
comment.

The state directed county welfare offices late in September to begin denying new
food stamp applications from immigrants as part of the new federal welfare
overhaul.

But anti-poverty attorneys filed a class-action lawsuit arguing that the state
had moved too quickly and failed to adopt clear rules about which immigrants
would qualify for exemptions.

Lewis ruled in their favor last Thursday, granting the injunction. But Gov. Pete
Wilson predicted the order would be in effect less than 10 days because the
state was pursuing fast-track regulations to implement the new federal law.

Child said the state was trying to avoid public comment on the proposed
regulations.

What counties will do in the meantime was unclear.

Frank Mecca, executive director of the County Welfare Directors Association of
California, said a notice the state was sending to counties informs them of the
injunction but suggests they still are required to follow the federal law.

"I would say that confusion reigns . . . " said Mecca. "It's really, really
frustrating. And it's foreboding in that this does appear that this is a preview
of things to come in terms of welfare reform implementation."

Mecca said he will advise county welfare directors to consult with county
attorneys.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 10, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SERVICE RAIDS TV STATION INACCURATE TIP: KGO WANTS THE AGENCY TO
EXPLAIN PROCEDURES USED TO FIND 'ILLEGAL' WORKER.

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 614 words


Rep. Anna Eshoo has asked immigration officials to explain an incident in which
two armed agents stormed the offices of KGO-TV and demanded to know the
citizenship status of employee Rose Guilbault - a citizen since 1989.

Guilbault and her colleagues say the incident has raised questions about how the
Immigration and Naturalization Service deploys its resources, what procedures it
follows when it receives confidential tips, and how accurate its computer files
are.

Guilbault, KGO's public affairs and editorial director, said she was angered by
the incident but wonders whether someone else would have been left feeling
embarrassed and intimidated. She said she also wants to know what tip led to the
raid.

"You like to think immigration had good evidence to come into the workplace like
that," said Guilbault, a Mexican native who has worked at the station for 18
years and became a U.S. citizen in 1989. "What was in that letter that gave them
such confidence? Or are they just arrogant and stupid?"

The INS has refused to give KGO (Ch. 7) a copy of the anonymous letter that
provided the initial tip. But INS district director Thomas Schiltgen defended
the action, saying that as a law enforcement agency, the INS has a
responsibility to check out tips on possible illegal immigrants.

The station has asked the INS to reconsider its decision on the letter.

In early October, INS officers called the personnel manager at KGO, Kathryn Cox,
and left her a voice mail message saying they needed to talk to her about an
employee, she said. Cox said she returned the call within five minutes, only to
discover that two INS officers were already in the station's lobby.

Schiltgen said they were armed.

Cox said she was alarmed.

"I just couldn't imagine what was so urgent," she said. "I thought someone was
about to be arrested."

The INS agents asked to speak to Cox privately, then told her they had received
an anonymous tip that Guilbault was an illegal immigrant from Canada. They
demanded to see documentation on Guilbault's status.

Cox said she burst out laughing. "I said, 'She's been working here since 1978.'
They were stunned. There was a huge silence."

Later, when Guilbault confronted INS officials with the station's investigative
reporting team in tow, she was told that her citizenship file was not in the INS
computer system.

Schiltgen said that although the INS was fully computerized more than 10 years
ago, files for immigrants who have become citizens since then may not be in the
computer system. After the incident, Guilbault's file was retrieved manually
from the federal records center in San Bruno, he said.

If other citizens' files are also missing from the computer, the INS has no way
of knowing that, said Sharon Rummery, an INS spokeswoman in San Francisco.

Schiltgen said that when Guilbault failed to turn up in the INS computer system,
sending two armed INS agents to the television station was not overzealous. The
San Francisco INS office has about 100 agents.

"People often do try to escape," he said. "The officers acted appropriately."

Schiltgen characterized the INS action as "quiet and unobtrusive."

Cox remains amazed that INS had the resources to send two agents to check up on
Guilbault's status and contrasted that with the difficulty she has had, as a
personnel manager, in getting information from the INS about employee
verification procedures.

"I've tried to call INS about documentation and it takes forever to get anyone,"
Cox said. "You're just caught in phone-tree hell. Maybe I could just call up INS
and say I've got a hot tip, and they would send two people over to the lobby
right away."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 DECEMBER 22, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN STUDENTS FACE PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL TUITION IMMIGRATION LAW DIRECTS
DISTRICTS TO CHARGE

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1232 words


Most of them don't know it yet, but the nation's public school systems will no
longer be accepting tens of thousands of foreign students and they'll be
charging many others tuition.

An obscure amendment to the sweeping new immigration law that quietly took
effect Nov. 30 requires unaccompanied foreign students who come to the United
States on F-1 student visas to pay tuition if they attend public high schools.

The new law bans foreigners from obtaining the student visas to attend publicly
funded adult-education schools, as well as public elementary schools. And
foreign students who attend public schools in grades 7-12 can stay only 12
months.

Pushed through Congress this year by Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., the
amendment is aimed at discouraging wealthy Asian parents from sending their kids
to American schools at taxpayer expense. It's expected to have an immediate
impact in California cities such as Cupertino, Fullerton and Irvine with growing
numbers of "parachute kids" - the sons and daughters of wealthy parents from
Taiwan, Hong Kong and other Asian countries who send their children
unaccompanied to American public schools known for their excellence.

The law does not affect students whose parents have legally immigrated to the
United States.

School districts have reacted with a combination of dismay and confusion to the
Feinstein amendment. An informal survey of local school districts indicated that
most didn't know about it.

Even the state Department of Education - which often sends districts advisories
on new federal laws - didn't get a copy of the amendment until a week ago.

"I heard the rumor about tuition in October, and it was only last week that a
friend of mine in Southern California sent me a copy of the bill," said Janet
McCormick, the department's deputy general counsel.

The law raises intriguing questions for districts, most of which don't know how
to charge tuition because they haven't had to do it before. The law requires
foreign students to pay "the full, unsubsidized per-capita cost" of educating
them.

"We called our Department of Education and received nothing in the way of
guidance," said Ken Stichter, assistant superintendent for the Fullerton Joint
Union High School District, which has hundreds of parachute kids. "This whole
thing runs contrary to the practice of free public education."

An ironic twist

Another interesting twist is that foreign students who come to this country
legally will be forced to pay tuition, but, because of previous court decisions,
students here illegally won't pay anything.

As a result, the new law is expected to rekindle some of the arguments spawned
by Proposition 187, the successful 1994 California ballot initiative intended in
part to keep undocumented immigrants out of public schools. Some school
officials worry that the law will force them to scrutinize immigration documents
- something most have resisted.

"All the same questions that came up with 187 are beginning to appear again,"
said Randy Okamura, a trustee of the Fremont Union High School District, which
covers Cupertino and surrounding cities.

Students who attend private schools won't be affected by the legislation. The
law also won't affect most foreign-student programs that depend on J-1
cultural-exchange visas, such as those run by the American Field Service and
Rotary International. But more informal student exchanges using the F-1 visa -
for example, a Polish-American family that wants to bring in a Polish student
for a year - will be affected. The student's parents or sponsor will now have to
pay tuition or, in the case of an elementary school student, see the student
barred from obtaining a visa.

It is difficult to determine how many parachute kids live in the United States.
A 1990 UCLA study, which looked at visa applications, estimated that there were
40,000 Taiwanese parachute kids, aged 8 to 18, living in the United States.
Smaller numbers had come from Hong Kong and South Korea.

No idea of numbers

The U.S. State Department issues about 400,000 F-I visas annually at overseas
embassies, but a high percentage of those are for college and university
students. Because it was never really an issue before, neither the State
Department nor the INS has ever kept track of what percentage are given to
public school students.

Supporters of the law say the Feinstein amendment addresses a serious issue that
has received little public attention outside of Southern California.

Most of the so-called parachute kids live with uncles, aunts, grandparents and
other relatives - and end up thriving in their new schools.

But a small minority live with paid guardians or even other students, and some
have ended up getting arrested for prostitution, drug possession and other
crimes. Desperate for companionship and attention, some have turned to ethnic
gangs.

Chinese-American leaders in Southern California have been in the forefront of a
movement to stem the tide of parachute kids. And police chiefs in Southern
California last year asked Feinstein to help stop the trend, spokeswoman Susan
Kennedy said.

"It's also a fairness issue to U.S. taxpayers," Kennedy said. "Public schools
should be for U.S. residents."

Police and school officials in Cupertino say the problem of parachute kids is
less severe in the northern part of the state. Still, many are worried that it
might spread.

Fremont Union's Okamura said he was concerned about the impact of such students
on school overcrowding, since Cupertino schools have taken on an almost mythical
status in Asia, particularly Taiwan.

Schools big attraction

"Our schools are advertised in foreign countries," Okamura said, referring to a
practice employed by real estate agents to attract Asian home buyers.

Many Asian parents see diplomas from top-notch American schools like those in
Cupertino as tickets to a good U.S. university. The parents also like the
electives and school activities their children are exposed to, and the chance to
learn English quickly in an environment that isn't as competitive as most Asian
schools.

But Asian-American community leaders have spotted a dark side to the phenomenon.

"The concern I have is unsupervised kids coming over here and staying with
non-relatives," said Cupertino resident Ben Liao, president of the
Asian-American Parents Association. "We try to get the parents motivated - and
it's very difficult to talk to parents if they're not here."

"Then they don't have anyplace to go, so they stay at their apartment and create
some problems," Liao said. "This might not be a big concern right now and I
don't think it's very pervasive. But it's getting serious."

The law's inapplicability to illegal immigrants stems in part from a 1982
Supreme Court ruling that allowed undocumented children to attend Texas public
schools without paying tuition.

It was that court decision that quickly nixed the provision in Proposition 187
that banned undocumented immigrant children from attending public schools. But
the Feinstein amendment, which hasn't been challenged in court, appears to be on
firmer legal footing because unlike under 187, the state has not been asked to
go into the immigration-control business.

"It's the federal government who gets to say who comes in and under what
conditions," McCormick of the education department said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: DETAILS OF THE NEW LAW
A provision of the sweeping immigration law signed by President Clinton in
September bars the government from issuing F-1 student visas to attend public
elementary schools and publicly funded adult education programs. Foreign
secondary school students are allowed to come here for 12 months, but they must
pay tuition. Here are some other provisions of the law:
* It is up to the schools to determine the tuition, defined in the law as the
"full, unsubsidized per capita cost" of education.
* School attendance while as a student under another visa status - including
living in the country as an undocumented immigrant - does not count toward the
12-month limitation.
* Foreigners who obtain F-1 visas and then break the law by attending an
elementary school, adult education program or secondary school without paying
tuition will be barred from entering the United States for five years.
* Foreign students attending schools under F-1 visas now will not be sent back.
The new law applies only to students issued visas since the law took effect Nov.
30.
Source: U.S. State Department

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 DECEMBER 27, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COUNTIES UNITE TO HELP IMMIGRANTS KEEP SSI

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 382 words


Nine Bay Area counties have banded together to pursue an $8.5 million grant to
help thousands of legal immigrants maintain their federal benefits by becoming
naturalized citizens.

As a result of federal welfare legislation signed this year, 80,000 recipients
in these counties are scheduled to lose monthly Supplemental Security Income
checks in 1997 and could end up on county general assistance instead.

Fearing this could lead to a fiscal catastrophe for their governments, county
officials are working instead to ensure that as many legal immigrants as
possible maintain their federal benefits.

The counties are collaborating to target about 46,000 people in the counties of
Santa Clara, Alameda, San Mateo, Santa Cruz, Monterey, San Francisco, San
Benito, Sonoma and Marin. All together, they receive about $331 million annually
in benefits, said grant writer Ed Kissam.

The counties are hoping to tap into the $50 million Emma Lazarus Fund, created
by Hungarian-born financier George Soros to help people - mostly elderly or
disabled - become naturalized. Soros' name graced the No. 2 spot of this year's
list of the Top 10 philanthropists nationwide as compiled by the online magazine
Slate.

If the money is granted, it will be used to educate immigrants about
citizenship, pay for cameras to take application photos and buy materials to
help immigrants study for the tests, said John Kreidler, acting director of the
San Francisco Foundation, one of the groups working on the project.

Project organizers are expected to meet with representatives of the Soros group
in January. Officials of the San Francisco Foundation, which endows many arts,
education, job training and environmental programs, said the response so far
from the New York-based foundation has been encouraging.

Even before the application was made, other funds already were being committed
to the effort, Kreidler said. Last month, the San Francisco Foundation awarded a
$25,000 grant to the San Francisco-based Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights and Services to help with the naturalization process.

"Even if the Lazarus Fund doesn't come through, the work will go on," Kreidler
said. "But this money would allow it to happen faster and in a more profound
fashion."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 14, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOW TO HELP SILICON VALLEY ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: ROBERT CHARLES HILL AND BRUCE A. MORRISON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 894 words


Last year, Washington lobbyists persuaded the 104th Congress to avoid badly
needed legal immigration reform. Their attacks solely - and effectively -
targeted immigration numbers, demonizing reform as anti-immigrant. That was
enough to avoid any discussion of how to serve the national interest in
immigration by solving the very real problems we face.
The 105th Congress is asking itself: Why put immigration back on the legislative
agenda? The answer is simple: Without reform, the problems are getting worse.

Here are two of the most critical:

* First, current law separates husbands and wives, parents and small children.
The 90,000 legal permanent residents who petition for their spouses and minor
children this year will put them at the back of a line that now has more than 1
million people in it. After literally dozens of public meetings and days of
debating various alternatives, the bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform
on which we serve made the only proposal that eliminates this waiting list in
five to eight years. Other legislative proposals take longer, and current law
will continue to separate nuclear families for years, until far into the next
century.

As a nation, we must mean what we say about family values. The 105th Congress
should eliminate the anti-nuclear family provisions of immigration law.

Curiously, some of the skilled immigrants who testified before us about the pain
of being separated from their closest loved ones work for the very companies
that lobbied hardest to defeat legal immigration reform. It is hard to see why a
company that claims to support immigrant employees would not leap to help bring
their spouses and minor children to live in the United States - legally.

Our view of legal immigration is that we ought to set priorities and deliver on
them. Priorities ought to determine the numbers for legal admission, not the
other way around. In the real world, this means we have to choose between using
visas for siblings or nuclear family members: every sibling admitted means a
spouse still separated.

There are now more than 1.7 million siblings who are waiting in a backlog that
no one has ever proposed enough visas to clear, with hundreds of thousands more
to be added as new immigrants naturalize. What national interest is served,
then, by holding out the false promise of sibling reunions that can't happen
legally for literally generations, with visas that could be used right now to
unite the closest immigrant families?

* Second, the system we have now for skilled immigrants is a failure. Last year,
Hewlett-Packard's personnel director wrote in an op-ed piece in this newspaper
that labor certification in the Silicon Valley is a "process that can take 22
months and cost $15,000." Yet even the Labor Department's own inspector general
concluded it does nothing to protect American workers, despite its purpose to
establish that the skilled immigrant is "needed" and not undercutting U.S. wages
and working conditions.

Nobody spends $15,000 to hire an unnecessary worker. But now the Labor
Department must look over the employer's shoulder.

The commission proposed replacing this system with market forces. No more
government second-guessing the hiring decisions of employers who sponsor skilled
workers for green cards.

A pilot project could allow companies to opt out of the regulatory jungle by
using market forces instead. Let a business show a canceled check for, say,
$10,000 in new investment for private sector education and training of American
workers, and get the green card to the skilled immigrant in two months instead
of two years. Isn't that more attractive than forever fixing failed regulations
that cost as much, or more, in legal fees alone?

Surely, there are Silicon Valley executives reading this who would find
educating American workers to make their products (or even to buy them) a better
investment than navigating an expensive regulatory maze for nearly two years.

Opponents of this reform don't merely perpetuate a failed regulatory structure.
They also tend to confuse temporary workers with permanent immigrants. (This is
something no H1-B worker who seeks a green card would ever do.) Forcing
companies to use a temporary fix when they need permanent workers does not serve
the national interest.

The commission did not propose a permanent increase in legal immigration (we did
recommend a temporary hike in family-based immigration, from 462,000 to 550,000
per year), nor did we call for immediate, or drastic cuts in overall admissions.
We recommended that Congress stop promising extended family immigration that it
won't deliver, and that we get current on our top priority: moms, dads and kids.
Once current in nuclear family immigration, we can stay current with roughly the
level of immigration we had in the late 1980s.

Immigration based on skills has been under 90,000 visas a year; we proposed
100,000, which swaps the unused visas in the current law for eliminating the
prolonged delay and useless expense that actually hurts U.S. companies.

There may be other ways to solve the separation of nuclear families and
prolonged delay in hiring skilled immigrants, but the 105th Congress has these
answers available to them. Will Silicon Valley demand that this Congress solve
its immigration problems?

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Robert Charles Hill, an international attorney, and Bruce A. Morrison, chairman
of the Federal Housing Finance Board, are members of the U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 15, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS CALLED VITAL TO THE VALLEY NEW POINT MAN IN SENATE CRITICIZED,
PRAISED IN S.J. VISIT

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 708 words


The new chairman of the U.S. Senate immigration subcommittee promised Tuesday to
resist new limits on legal immigration that would hurt Silicon Valley
industries, even as noisy protesters were deriding him as the "poster boy of
mass immigration."

Arguing that Congress must note the positive contributions made by legal
immigrants, Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., contended that lawmakers have already
eliminated most of the "excesses of immigration" by cracking down on illegal
entry into the country. Abraham said he'll try to keep his fellow lawmakers from
extending that get-tough attitude to legal immigration.

Abraham made his comments at the North San Jose headquarters of Cypress
Semiconductor Corp., whose president and chief executive officer, T.J. Rodgers,
joined Abraham in fighting to strip restrictions on legal immigration from last
year's bill. Flanked Tuesday by executives of three dozen companies, from Sun
Microsystems to Netscape to Cisco Systems, Rodgers called Abraham "a hero of
freedom."

The anti-immigration demonstrators had a different viewpoint. Hoisting signs
such as "Senator Abraham loves illegals" and "Stop bashing U.S. citizens," more
than 100 protesters marched in a circle outside the news conference.

Other chanters took pot shots at the Cypress CEO: "Send T.J. to TJ (Tijuana),"
and "We don't need Mr. Rodgers in our neighborhood," they yelled.

Despite the humor and theatrics, the media circus highlighted a deadly serious
issue for high-tech executives, many of whom contend that legal immigration is
their lifeblood.

Under current immigration quotas, the United States now legally admits some
800,000 people annually. But after a 1995 bipartisan commission led by the late
Barbara Jordan recommended significant cuts in immigration quotas and President
Clinton responded favor ably, Congress incorporated reductions of about a third
into the immigration bill.

Pressure from high-tech businesses and other immigration advocates eventually
led Congress to eliminate the quota reductions from the bill. Abraham, allied
with Jack Kemp, William Bennett and other pro-immigration Republicans, played a
key part in that process.

Abraham was appointed to his new post Monday by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah,
another pro-immigration lawmaker who heads the Senate Judiciary Committee. He
replaces retiring Wyoming Republican Alan Simpson, the Senate's leading expert
on immigration, who favored greater restrictions.

Congressional observers see Abraham's appointment as a sign that
anti-immigration forces - despite public opinion polls that show Americans
siding with them - have a tough fight ahead.

"It's going to be much, much more difficult to enact reforms if that wing of the
Republican Party dominates," said Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, who came up from Los Angeles for the demonstration. "It's
going to result in a stalemate."

Abraham and Rodgers said Tuesday that it's a myth that immigration results in
fewer jobs for Americans.

Rodgers said that although corporate downsizing has made many Americans fearful
of losing their jobs, high-tech businesses can't find all the skilled people
they need to expand. Legal immigration is part of his solution.

He said that a disproportionate amount of research-and-development jobs at
Cypress - about 40 percent - are held by immigrants. And because each R&D job
creates nine additional jobs, he said, eliminating the immigrants would result
in a loss of 720 jobs at Cypress, most of which are held by native-born
Americans.

Rodgers also noted that four out of 10 of his senior vice presidents are
foreign-born, as are two of Cypress' four outside directors. As he introduced
the VPs, he took the opportunity to mock former GOP presidential candidate Pat
Buchanan by introducing his "Jose," Buchanan's derisive euphemism for
immigrants. Jose Arreola, a Mexican immigrant with a doctorate in transistor
physics, is Cypress' top scientist, Rodgers noted.

But Perry Lorenz of Immigration Control Advocates of Northern California
contended that Rodgers has tirelessly campaigned to block immigration reform so
his industry can have "a large international pool of low-wage workers to pick
and choose from."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO:
Sen. Spencer Abraham points to legal immigrants' contri-
butions.
[970115 BU 1C 1; color]
PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY LG FRANCIS - MERCURY NEWS
Anti-immigration protesters picket Tuesday outside Cypress Semiconductor Corp.
in San Jose, where U.S. Sen. Spencer Abraham spoke.
[970115 BU 1C 2; color]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 23, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW IMMIGRATION PLAYER IS A REPUBLICAN . . . BUT HE'S ALSO A MODERATE

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 515 words


ON his first visit to Silicon Valley, Republican Sen. Spencer Abraham, a
political moderate, looked out the window at the anti-immigrant IMG
SRC="http://www.sjmercury.com/opinion/graphics/sigs/joe.sig" WIDTH=102
HEIGHT=156 BORDER=0 ALIGN=left demonstrators denouncing him. "I guess I'm their
new poster boy," he said.

More comforting to him, no doubt, were the high-tech executives, a dozen or so
immigrants among them, who gathered at Cypress Semiconductor Corp. in San Jose
to hear him speak. Standing above, on the stairway and the second floor, was the
next generation of young high-tech workers, many of them immigrants too. This
was the immigrant crowd President Clinton won and Bob Dole never connected with,
a fact probably not lost on the visiting senator from Michigan.

Abraham is the likable and new player in immigration, modern California's most
divisive issue since the day white golddiggers started shooting Chinese and
Mexican prospectors a century and a half ago.

Don't expect any surprises from the new chairman of the Senate's immigration
subcommittee. There will be no tweaking of last year's federal immigration or
welfare legislation.

Too bad. A moderate GOP leader could do a lot to undo some of the damage and,
more importantly, start addressing the real immigration problems.

For example, legal immigrants now won't even qualify for minimal safety-net
programs, such as food stamps. Should he choose, Abraham could work with
President Clinton to restore some of these benefits.

Still, Abraham is not a seal-the-border nativist like former GOP presidential
candidate Pat Buchanan. He's more reasonable on immigration levels than his
predecessor, Wyoming Sen. Alan Simpson. Abraham is no fan of Big Brother
worker-verification systems either.

In an otherwise uncontroversial speech, Abraham did bring up one new, intriguing
idea: Break up the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He suggested that the
INS, which includes the Border Patrol, cannot police with one hand and reach out
to immigrants with the other. I agree and would add that the INS remains one of
the most disorganized and insensitive federal bureaucracies. Maybe it's time to
bring up this old idea: Merge the Border Patrol and Coast Guard into a new
agency; and let the rest of the INS deal with legal immigration. Efficiency
would improve all around.

Down the road, Abraham would do well to tackle some real immigration problems.

He might, for example, promote a recommendation by the U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform that would streamline the process for bringing in
high-skilled immigrants.

As the next round of talks begin on the North American Trade Agreement, he ought
to consider putting labor issues on the table. To wit: Increase the number of
visas for unskilled Mexican laborers in U.S. industries that need them. That
would help reduce illegal immigration.

Abraham was one of those Republican senators who helped kill some of the
harshest anti-immigrant amendments in last year's legislation. Immigrants would
be facing tougher lives without him.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Immigration
Joe Rodriguez is a Mercury News editorial writer.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Abraham
[970123 ED 8B 5]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 28, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OFFICIALS RIP INS OFFICE OVER DELAYS MOVING: LARGER FACILITY, STAFF TO SPEED
PROCESSING.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 784 words


Amid stepped-up criticism from the South Bay's congressional delegation,
immigration officials in San Jose say they're moving to bigger offices on
Monterey Highway to help reduce delays in processing citizenship applications.
But the agency and its critics profoundly disagree about the severity of the
agency's backlog.
At a news conference Monday outside the downtown San Jose offices of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, Reps. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, and Anna
Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, called for the INS to make its San Jose branch a district
office rather than a "stepchild" of the San Francisco office.

"The San Jose INS office is overwhelmed and understaffed to meet the needs of
our region's growing immigrant population," Campbell said.

The backlog is particularly troubling, he added, because many immigrants face an
Aug. 22 cutoff of Supplemental Security Income and other public assistance. The
elimination of most benefits to non-citizen legal immigrants was a key part of
the sweeping welfare bill passed by Congress last summer.

Campbell, Eshoo and delegates for Democratic Reps. Sam Farr and Zoe Lofgren
called for the San Jose office to shrink its processing time from one year to no
more than 90 to 120 days.

But INS officials said they were puzzled by the criticism because they already
have made great progress in reducing the local nat uralization backlog.

"San Jose is not getting short shrift," said Virginia Kice, an INS spokeswoman.
"It's getting a lot of resources and attention."

The waiting time in San Jose actually is six months, Kice and local officials
said Monday - not the year that the congressional representatives claimed.

"We're interviewing people now who filed applications at the end of August
1996," said Tim Murray, the acting head of San Jose's INS office.

Murray said there are isolated cases in which the wait can be a year or more.

"We understand we make mistakes," he said. "We're human. But we try to keep the
mistakes to a minimum."

Reduced wait time

INS officials said the wait for an interview in San Jose was 18 months in 1995.
But since then, Kice said, the number of employees in the San Jose office has
jumped from 61 to 84, including 15 temporary workers assigned exclusively to
naturalization. By Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year, the number of employees
is due to increase to 96, she said.

But Campbell's district director, Casey Beyer, said he doubted the accuracy of
the six-month figure.

"I don't think the INS is giving actual numbers," said Beyer, explaining that
his office based its estimate of a year on talks with constituents as well as
discussions with INS staff members in San Jose.

Eshoo said Monday that the INS was the target of 80 percent of the constituent
complaints received in her Palo Alto office.

One recent development affecting INS processing delays was the agency's decision
in November not to grant citizenship interviews until the FBI has examined an
applicant's fingerprints to make sure he or she is free of felony convictions
and of good moral character, Murray said.

Election allegation

During the presidential election campaign, the Clinton administration was
denounced for allegedly granting citizenship to thousands of immigrants with
criminal records. The allegation is the subject of a congressional
investigation.

This poses a problem for honest seekers of citizenship papers because "the FBI
is being deluged" with the skyrocketing numbers of people seeking citizenship,
Murray said.

The new San Jose office will be in a renovated office building on Monterey
Highway just north of Curtner Avenue. Murray said he expects the move to take
place about Oct. 1.

The agency operates in San Jose out of two locations - the federal building and
an office tower on North First Street.

With the move, the agency's office space will almost double - from 25,000 to
45,000 square feet.

No change in status

Kice said there are no plans now to elevate the San Jose office to district
status. And she questioned whether it would make much difference to the public.

"It's not about status," she said. "It's about service. . . . We have to think
of the most efficient ways to deploy people."

Since the San Francisco district headquarters is so close, Kice said, an upgrade
in San Jose would represent "duplication of effort."

Beyer strongly disagreed. He argued that "it's a parochial decision" that has
more to do with officials in San Francisco wanting to cling to power.

Having a separate INS district, he said, "will change the way Washington looks
at the San Jose office." The result, he contended, would be more money and
employees - and shorter waits.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 1, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SSI CUTOFFS FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS LOOM GETTING THE WORD OUT: GOVERNMENT TO SEND
LETTERS ANNOUNCING CHANGE.

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal authorities will begin mailing notices Monday to 1 million elderly and
disabled legal immigrants who now receive Supplemental Security Income,
informing them their monthly benefit checks will be stopped this summer if they
have not become U.S. citizens or do not otherwise qualify under special
exemptions.

The four-page letters, accompanied by a fact sheet on how to apply for
citizenship, formally kick off the notification process for one of the new
federal welfare overhaul's most controversial mandates: the removal by
congressional action of hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants from the SSI
rolls.

Most non-citizen immigrants will also become ineligible for food stamps this
summer.

Though word of the cuts has already rippled through immigrant communities and
has been closely chronicled in the ethnic news media, the mass mailing will be
the first formal notification.

As many as 16,000 disabled and elderly legal immigrants in Santa Clara County
will be among those receiving the letters, according to county officials.
Additionally, about 15,000 low-income legal immigrants will lose food stamps if
they do not become citizens by Aug. 22.

"People will become more concerned once they get these letters," said Richard
Hobbs, the county's first director of citizen and immigration programs. "I wish
we could, at the same time, let them know there are services available to help
them become citizens as an alternative."

The county has launched its own program to help legal immigrants become
naturalized citizens. County officials believe it is the first county-run
citizenship drive in the country.

Relief from the new law may eventually be available on the state and federal
levels.

The Clinton administration has proposed restoring some cuts for legal
immigrants, but the fate of the White House plan is unclear in the
GOP-controlled Congress.

The administration also told the states Friday that they may use their own
welfare money to bypass new federal time limits or assist immigrants who
otherwise would be cut off under new guidelines for implementing the welfare
law.

Earlier this year, Gov. Pete Wilson said California should continue to provide
welfare and Medi-Cal health care to immigrants legally in the country before the
federal law was signed last August. A Wilson press officer said he had not
decided whether SSI benefits should be continued for legal immigrants, or
whether they should lose their eligibility for food stamps.

The Clinton administration also told states that they would be subject to
financial penalties if they tried to evade stringent work requirements
stipulating that half of all adult welfare recipients must be employed by 2002.

State officials welcomed the new guidance from Washington.

"We like it," said Susan Golonka, a policy analyst at the National Governors'
Association, which opens its winter meeting here today. "It's very helpful to
governors and state legislators who are now designing their welfare programs."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writers Carolyn Jung and Thomas Farragher contributed
to this report.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 2, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

220 NON-CITIZENS MAY HAVE VOTED IN ORANGE COUNTY REGISTRATION BY IMMIGRANTS
FOUND IN ELECTION CONTESTED BY DORNAN

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA


More than 200 non-citizens registered through an immigrant rights group may have
voted illegally in central Orange County's fall elections, it was reported
Saturday.

A Los Angeles Times analysis found that 220 names of people registered to vote
by Hermandad Mexicana Nacional matched the names of immigrants who were not
citizens at the time of the Nov. 5 balloting.

The newspaper said that overall, 374 names of voters registered through
Hermandad matched those of non-citizen immigrants.

However, it was unclear how many of the voters cast ballots in the 46th
Congressional District race that ousted nine-term Republican Rep. Robert K.
Dornan in favor of Democratic newcomer Loretta Sanchez.

Dornan is contesting the election he lost by less than 1,000 votes, claiming
voter fraud.

One Santa Ana woman told the Times that she registered to vote before taking the
oath of citizenship but did not vote in the election.

The woman said officials at Hermandad, where she took classes, told her that she
was permitted to register.

"I was asked to sign some papers and told to register for voting," said the
woman, whom the newspaper did not identify. "They told me to remember that I was
already registered and not to register again after I was sworn in."

In recent weeks, the county district attorney's office has seized the files of
434 immigrants Hermandad described as being in the process of applying for
citizenship.

Hermandad attorney Mark Rosen told the Times that the 434 files were "for people
in different stages of applying for citizenship." The group is trying to force
county and state authorities to return documents and computers seized in a
search of its Santa Ana offices.

The Times compared the names to a list of people who registered on affidavits
issued to Hermandad by the county registrar of voters.

The comparison showed that the names of 374 people who registered at Hermandad
before the election matched the names of people Hermandad said were not yet
citizens. It showed that 220 of those names matched the names of people who
voted on Nov. 5.

However, the Times said there was insufficient information to determine with
certainty whether the immigrants are the same people who turned up on voter
records.

After being informed that many of those immigrants had the same names as
registered voters, Rosen and the organization's director of operations, Jay
Lindsey, said they were unsure of the applicants' exact citizenship status.

Hermandad has denied deliberately helping any non-citizens to register or vote.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 7, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS DESERVE FEDERAL HEALTH CARE BENEFITS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 435 words


IN these times, when winning 50-something percent of the vote is considered an
overwhelming mandate, what do you call the following numbers?

When polled recently, 81 percent of Californians supported public health
benefits for legal immigrants. Among whites and African-Americans, 75 percent
supported benefits such as immunization, family planning and prenatal care for
legal immigrants. Latinos and Asians gave even greater support. Both Republicans
and Democrats favored the benefits.

Local support for immigrant health benefits was even higher: In Santa Clara
County, 85 percent; San Mateo County, 88 percent; Alameda County, 85 percent.

Are these mandates, or what?

The results come from a statewide poll by the Field Institute and were paid for
by the Wellness Foundation, a non-profit, non-partisan group. Of course, polls
can be skewed. But the Field organization is highly respected for objectivity,
and these are huge margins.

There's no doubt about it. Since last August, momentum has been building
nationwide to reconsider the public health benefits taken away from legal
immigrants by federal welfare legislation.

Last year's welfare bill gave states the option of cutting off health benefits
for most legal immigrants who had arrived before August 1996. It took a harder
and harsh line with new immigrants who arrive after that: They must wait five
years before they become eligible.

Fortunately, longtime immigrants in California need not fear, since both Gov.
Pete Wilson and Democratic leaders want to continue their health benefits.
However, Gov. Wilson isn't willing to lobby Congress to restore those benefits
for new immigrants. He ought to reconsider. Many other governors, Republicans
and Democrats, already have formed a gubernatorial chorus lobbying Congress to
restore eligibility.

It's cruel and immoral to deny medical treatment to anyone who is poor and sick,
but it is especially unfair to withhold the benefit from people who pay taxes
and follow all the rules. Remember, these are legal immigrants.

President Clinton has expressed interest in maintaining health benefits for
legal immigrants, new ones as well as those who arrived earlier. But he will be
opposed by the chief author of the welfare law, Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr., R-Fla.,
and the assistant Republican leader of the Senate, Don Nickles of Oklahoma.

On this question of health benefits for immigrants, the people of California
answer a thundering and compassionate yes. Our representatives, including the
governor, should be fighting to restore those benefits. It's the right thing to
do.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARBARA CUMMINGS - LOS ANGELES TIMES
[970207 ED 6B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 10, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELFARE CUTS NOT NEW TO COUNTY IMMIGRANTS: SANTA CLARA BOARD'S '93 REFORMS MAY
SHOW CONGRESS THE WAY.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1298 words


Santa Clara County supervisors screamed bloody murder last year when the
Republican Congress slashed benefits to legal immigrants as part of welfare
reform.

What they failed to point out, however, is that the board of supervisors did
exactly the same thing a few years ago after finding out that hundreds of legal
immigrants were draining county welfare funds.

Once the county learned that nearly 40 percent of its general-assistance cases
were immigrants whose U.S. sponsors had promised to keep them off welfare for
three years, it purged most such immigrants from the rolls.

As local and state governments now attempt to implement welfare reform, the
success of the county's crackdown could serve as a national model for cutting
down on immigrant welfare abuse without cutting funds to needy newcomers.

Widespread abuse by legal immigrants of the federal Supplemental Security Income
program was the main reason Congress voted to eliminate benefits to non-citizens
last year. Most of the cuts take effect Aug. 22.

Some welfare-reform advocates say the solution isn't cutting off non-citizen
immigrants, but lengthening the period during which they must be supported by
their sponsors - U.S. residents who sign a written pledge to keep them off
welfare. Then, all the government has to do is aggressively enforce these
sponsorship agreements.

The county's get-tough policy certainly had an immediate and dramatic effect. In
February 1993, there were 2,087 cases of sponsored immigrants on general
assistance, costing the county $5 million annually. Today, there are only eight,
social service officials say.

The county crackdown began in July 1993 after then-Supervisor Mike Honda's
office issued a startling report showing that the county's general-assistance
caseload had jumped 183 percent in the previous three years. In the same period,
the cost of the program had jumped 72 percent to $13.1 million, as the cost of
the sponsored immigrants increased 750 percent.

General assistance, funded totally by the county, has traditionally been the
welfare program of last resort, providing a basic level of subsistence -
currently $285 a month. But the county found that recent immigrants were taking
advantage of the program - legally.

One case involved a 19-year-old male immigrant who had arrived in June 1991. The
youth received $240 a month in assistance, half of which was turned over to his
sponsors - an aunt and uncle - as rent for living in their home. The sponsors,
who contributed nothing to their nephew's support, owned a four-bedroom house
and four other properties assessed at about $900,000.

The board of supervisors acted swiftly. Under an innovative plan proposed by the
report's author, Honda aide and cousin Keith Honda, the sponsored immigrants
were not denied aid. But their sponsors were required to co-sign a pledge that
the county dollars would be paid back.

To make sure the message got through, the county imposed a lien on the sponsor's
property. The board also ordered welfare workers to pursue "collection activity"
against sponsors who were not meeting their obligations.

"The goal . . . was not to deny aid to people who were truly in need," said
Keith Honda, who last week lost a bid to replace his cousin on the board. "We
understood that there might be people whose sponsors lost their jobs and
couldn't provide for them."

General acceptance

Most sponsors agreed to support their charges after they found out that the
county would be asking them to pay it back, said John Oppenheim, chief deputy
director of the county Social Services Agency.

"Those who had the financial wherewithal were more inclined to pay now rather
than later, rather than sign a promissory note and get a lien on their
property," he said. "If they didn't pay the loan, we pursued the sponsor. Word
that we were doing this spread fairly rapidly in immigrant communities."

Honda said the problem was sensitive because of the anti-immigrant sentiment of
the time among many voters. But the more he researched the issue, the more he
found that even a number of immigrant advocates supported the crackdown, because
of the obvious abuse.

"There was no one who was brought to my attention who suffered as a result of
these new regulations," Oppenheim said.

Critics say the federal SSI program - which gives monthly checks to people with
minimal assets who are 65 and older, blind or disabled - is routinely abused in
many of the same ways. Elderly Third World immigrants sponsored by their
children can continue to get SSI benefits if they claim they are financially
independent from their children. They're even allowed to collect when they live
with them.

In California, since SSI is supplemented by state payments, a single person with
no other income receives an average check of $640 per month, said Len Filippini,
assistant district manager of the Social Security Administration in San Jose.

Ethnic breakdown

Studies have shown that SSI usage is particularly high among Asian immigrants
and refugees from the former Soviet Union. It's low among Latino immigrants.

Before last year's congressional vote to cut off benefits, the conservative
Heritage Foundation complained that the United States was becoming a "deluxe
retirement home" for the elderly of other countries. It noted that some 738,000
non-citizen residents were receiving SSI, up 580 percent from 12 years earlier.
A 1993 analysis by Norman Matloff, a computer science professor at the
University of California-Davis, showed that 45 percent of elderly immigrants in
California received cash welfare.

"The U.S. welfare system has too many holes," said Wai-Yen Sit of San Francisco,
a 47-year-old Chinese-American who immigrated to the United States from Hong
Kong 23 years ago. "Immigrants use their food stamps to buy expensive food. They
use their SSI money to travel around the world. It's not right to the
hard-working people here."

The congressional crackdown on legal immigrants was so sweeping, however, that
legitimately indigent people are also being cut off public assistance. The
exceptions include U.S. military veterans and active personnel, refugees and
asylum seekers - who will be cut off after five years - and battered spouses and
children.

"You're throwing the baby out with the bath water," said Yolanda Rinaldo, the
county's social services director. "There's a lot of people out there panicking.
I just spent an hour with a woman who was just sobbing because her food stamps
are going to disappear."

Deadline approaching

California's legislative analyst's office projects that about 200,000 recipients
now receiving Supplemental Security Income could lose those benefits if they
don't become citizens by the Aug. 22 cutoff date. Almost 18,000 such immigrants
live in Santa Clara County.

The new law says that immigrants must be citizens or have worked in this country
for at least 10 years to collect most assistance. As a result, if a non-citizen
legal immigrant works for nine years and has a disabling stroke, he would not be
eligible for SSI.

The Clinton administration says that's wrong. Just last week, it proposed
revising the welfare law so that immigrants who become disabled can get SSI.

"My heart goes out to these people," said Maria H. Chang, an associate professor
of political science at the University of Nevada-Reno. Still, she said, the
government is to blame for indiscriminately handing out checks and not enforcing
sponsorship agreements in the past.

Cutting off all legal immigrants is a "heavy-handed solution that was the result
of immigrants taking advantage of the graciousness and kindness of this
country," said Chang, who came to the United States three decades ago as a
student.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CRACKING DOWN ON ABUSE
Until July 1993, Santa Clara County allowed immigrants with sponsors to collect
general assistance. Then the county began cracking down on people who didn't
meet their obligations as sponsors. Here's how the crackdown worked:
The county sent letters to aid recipients who were sponsored immigrants, asking
them to provide a copy of the written promise by their sponsor that they would
not become a welfare recipient.
Recipients who failed to cooperate were immediately cut off.
If neither the sponsor nor the immigrant provided their sponsorship agreement,
the county got it from the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Welfare workers set up appointments with sponsors to explain that now they would
be expected to reimburse the county for the aid. The county would ensure
repayment by placing a lien on the sponsor's property.
To avoid liens, the overwhelming majority of sponsors told the county to stop
giving aid to the immigrants they'd previously agreed to support.
Source: County Social Services Agency

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 12, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS DESERVE A SAFETY NET

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 640 words

"THE word is out that it is easy to come to America and go on welfare," said
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Bill Archer, R-Texas, on "Face the
Nation" this week. "That's not what America is all about. And we were elected to
protect taxpayers from this kind of abuse."

When Congress looked for places to cut welfare spending last year, legal
immigrants were targeted because they don't vote and because of the widespread
perception that they abuse the system. Like the welfare mother driving around in
a Cadillac, the immigrant Grandma collecting welfare while living with her
affluent children has come to personify the need for welfare reform.

There are cases of elderly immigrants collecting welfare even though their
families could support them. But the new welfare law does not merely go after
these people. It cuts off all legal immigrants from food stamps and Supplemental
Security Income benefits, even if they have no means of support, through no
fault of their own. This is unfair.

President Clinton's budget proposal announced last week would repair the law to
provide help for those who really need it. The president's budget calls for
restoring $17.9 billion in welfare benefits over five years to some immigrants.
It is a humane compromise, and Congress should adopt it.

It is possible to root out welfare fraud without cutting off needy people who
follow the rules. Back in 1993, Santa Clara County was paying General Assistance
benefits to more than 2,000 recent immigrants whose sponsors were supposed to be
supporting them. Through an innovative program proposed by Keith Honda, working
for then-Supervisor Mike Honda, the county was able to go after the sponsors and
force them to live up to their obligations. The number of new immigrants in the
county on the GA rolls dropped immediately. Today there are fewer than 10 on the
rolls.

The same sort of diligence would cut abuses of federal welfare programs.

Under the old law, U.S. residents who sponsored new immigrants pledged to
support them for five years. After that, the newcomers became eligible for
citizenship. There should have been no reason to pay Supplemental Security
Income to immigrants during that five-year period unless the sponsor died or had
a serious financial setback. But after five years, sponsors were not held
responsible.

The new federal law changed that. Now sponsors will be responsible until the
newcomer becomes a citizen or has worked for 10 years. No longer will Americans
be able to bring in elderly relatives and routinely put them on welfare after
five years.

But what about immigrants who come to this country, work for nine years, pay
taxes all that time, and then are injured in an accident or suffer a stroke and
cannot work? And what if their sponsors have died, or can no longer support
them?

The president's budget proposal would make it possible for those immigrants to
collect SSI. It would make sure that children of immigrants don't go hungry or
without medical care. It would delay the ban on food stamps for legal immigrants
to give newcomers additional time to become citizens.

Clinton's proposal faces tough opposition from congressional Republicans like
Archer. But in state capitols across the country, it is likely to be popular.
Last week the nation's governors called for a restoration of welfare benefits to
elderly and disabled immigrants. In response, Republicans in Congress have
proposed that states with large immigrant populations receive additional block
grants to care for disabled and elderly immigrants. Gov. Pete Wilson has
endorsed that proposal.

Whether by block grant or budget increases, Congress must provide a safety net
for legal immigrants. California, with nearly half of the nation's legal
immigrants, has a vested interest in pushing for quick action.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: TIM BRINTON
[970212 ED 6B]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 22, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 WRITERS KEPT FROM COURT HEARINGS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 103 words


Authors of Proposition 187 have been barred by a federal judge from intervening
in the court fight over the anti-illegal immigrant initiative. "We will appeal
this decision," Hal Ezell, a former immigration official who helped write the
1994 ballot measure, said Friday in Sacramento. "This is not going to stop us."
Ezell and other members of the Alan C. Nelson Foundation of Americans for
Responsible Immigration sought two weeks ago to intervene in the case, which is
being heard in federal court in Los Angeles. But on Tuesday, U.S. District Court
Judge Mariana Pfaelzer denied the request without comment.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 10, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RALLYING FOR IMMIGRANTS' RIGHTS MARCHERS PROTEST WELFARE REFORM

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 198 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


About 1,000 people marched through downtown Sunday to protest new welfare laws
they said will harm thousands of elderly immigrants who subsist on social
services.

The four-hour protest was peaceful and no arrests were made, police officer Don
Cox said.

The march was sponsored by about 50 civil rights and immigrant help groups.

A welfare reform law that President Clinton signed last year will cut off
disability benefits to as many as 500,000 of the 803,000 non-citizens now
receiving assistance.

It also affects 900,000 low-income elderly and disabled legal immigrants, who
will lose Supplemental Security Income benefits this fall.

SSI provides an average of $425 a month in aid for poor people who are elderly,
blind or disabled.

"The irony of all this immigrant, poor and elderly bashing is that the vast
majority of Californians are not in agreement with the drastic effects of these
laws," Juan Jose Gutierrez, executive director of march sponsor One Stop
Immigration Center, said in a statement.

"As a result, it is likely that these laws will backfire in the face of the very
politicians who are cultivating this culture of xenophobia," Gutierrez said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Doves are released, above, during a protest against new welfare laws Sunday at
City Hall in Los Angeles.
[970310 CA 3B 1]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
At right, Arturo Cuauhctemoc of Los Angeles, a member of the Mexicas tribe,
leads a call.
[970310 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 27, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PLAN TO CUT AID TO IMMIGRANTS SPURS SUIT;
SAFETY NET: ATTORNEYS SAY MANY WILL BECOME DESTITUTE, HOMELESS WITHOUT SSI.

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 738 words


A coalition of civil-rights attorneys filed a class-action lawsuit on Wednesday,
charging that federal welfare reform violates the constitutional rights of
impoverished legal immigrants who are not naturalized citizens.

The suit seeks an injunction to halt the planned Aug. 22 cutoff of Supplemental
Security Income to more than 500,000 legal immigrants nationwide, 41 percent of
whom live in California.

The lawsuit charges that denying SSI to individuals solely because they are not
citizens is in direct violation of the Fifth Amendment's "due process" clause,
which protects all residents from discrimination by the government.

While legal residents who are not citizens can be denied certain privileges such
as the right to hold public office, "it is patently outside our constitutional
norms to discriminate against legal immigrants in a manner that threatens their
very ability to exist," said Judith Gold, a San Francisco attorney involved in
bringing the case.

In California, 293,000 non-citizens received SSI last year. Beside federal
benefits of up to $484 a month, the state pays $156 a month to elderly or
disabled recipients and $211 to the blind. But Gov. Pete Wilson plans to
eliminate those grants at the time of the federal cutoff, attorneys said.

Without these monthly payments many of these recipients will become destitute
and homeless, the attorneys said.

"The government is pulling the rug from beneath their feet," said Victor Hwang,
attorney with the National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium, another one
of the lawyers who brought the suit. "For those who will surely fall, there is
no safety net."

The suit, filed by five plaintiffs in California and Oregon who face the loss of
their SSI benefits, was brought against John Callahan, acting commissioner of
the Social Security Administration. It was filed in U.S. District Court in San
Francisco.

The welfare reform law signed by President Clinton last August prohibits most
legal immigrants from receiving food stamps and SSI, which goes to those who are
elderly or disabled and poor.

That law is expected to affect 21,643 non-citizens in Santa Clara County, 16,266
in Alameda County, 6,174 in San Mateo County, 1,631 in Santa Cruz County and
19,668 in San Francisco County.

Although civil-rights attorneys are unsure how many legal permanent residents
the class-action suit will encompass, they said it will include at least those
within the Ninth Circuit Court district. That includes those in California,
Oregon, Washington, Arizona, Nevada, Idaho, Montana, Hawaii, Alaska and Guam.

A similar suit also was filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in New York on
behalf of legal permanent residents in that state, as well as in Vermont and
Connecticut. New York City's Republican mayor Rudolph Giuliani also sued the
federal government Wednesday over provisions in the new immigration and welfare
laws.

Civil rights attorneys said they are confident about the lawsuit, particularly
after the U.S. Supreme Court recently ruled that New York state's attempts to
limit state-funded college scholarships to only citizens was unconstitutional.

Clinton has asked the Republican-controlled Congress to restore about $14
billion in aid to legal residents. The funds would go to people who turned 65 or
became disabled after entering the United States legally.

But civil rights attorneys say there are no guarantees. "The fate of all of that
is very unpredictable and any fix made will take a long time," Gold said. "Our
recipients can't wait that long."

Among those recipients, Gold said, is 16-year-old Saman Muy, a plaintiff in the
suit who fled war-torn Cambodia with her family in 1982. Muy, who is confined to
a wheelchair because of a spinal-cord injury, has received SSI since she was 5
years old. The high school student who lives in San Francisco's Tenderloin
District uses that money for her share of the rent, food, utilities and
transportation.

Her mother tried to become a citizen two years ago, but she wasn't sufficiently
proficient in English to pass the tests. Her father, who also is disabled and
suffers from severe depression, also has been unable to become a citizen. As a
result, since Muy is a minor, she faces losing her SSI benefits because she
cannot become a citizen until she is 18.

"If I lose my SSI support," she said, "it will be very difficult for me to get
by."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: THOR SWIFT -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Attorneys Victor Hwang, left, and Alan Schlosser, and disabled immigrant Saman
Muy answer questions on suit.
[970327 CA 3B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 28, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLITICAL-ASYLUM REQUEST GRANTED EX-IRA MEMBER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 126 words


A former Irish Republican Army member won political asylum in the United States
on Thursday, escaping a government effort to deport him as a convicted
terrorist. Brian Pearson, 45, served 12 years in prison for a 1975 bombing of
the Royal Ulster Constabulary barracks in Northern Ireland. He argued that his
was "a political act" under U.S. immigration law, not terrorism.

In his 43-page ruling, Immigration Judge Philip Williams said in New York City
that the RUC's "atrocious acts" against Northern Irish Catholics made the
barracks a "legitimate target . . . under international law and the laws of
war." The case was the first decided under the immigration law passed by
Congress last year, and could set a precedent for six pending cases.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 5, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW STANDARDS ON IMMIGRATION PASS CHALLENGE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 150 words


A federal judge refused Friday to block new rules allowing immigration officials
greater authority to turn away foreigners seeking political asylum in the United
States. In the first of several planned challenges to the nation's new
immigration law, immigrant-rights lawyers asked U.S. District Judge Emmet
Sullivan to block expedited removal rules that took effect Tuesday.

They contend potential refugees will be improperly turned away -- and returned
to the homelands they fled in fear -- under unduly harsh regulations written by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Sullivan declined to grant the
temporary restraining order sought on behalf of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association. Before getting to the merits of the "significant and important"
issues raised, Sullivan is giving the Justice Department and immigrant-rights
lawyers until mid-May to marshal their cases.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 9, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT RIGHTS ON THE IMMIGRANT ROAD FROM SANTA FE, NEW MEXICO, TO PORTLAND,
MICHOACAN

BYLINE: DAVID S. BRODER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 580 words

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M.


LAST WEEK, Republican Gov. Gary Johnson vetoed a welfare reform bill passed by
the Democratic legislature that would, among other things, have allowed legal
aliens to receive benefits for up to another five years.

His veto was denounced by the Albuquerque and Santa Fe newspapers and by many
Democrats. There is nothing unusual about immigration becoming the center of hot
political debate. All this past week, the Justice Department has been in court
defending regulations derived from the tough new immigration law passed by the
last Congress against challenges from civil libertarians and groups representing
Latino and other ethnic groups.

But there is a special irony in hearing the emotionally charged immigration
debate here in this state, where Spaniards arrived long before Anglos and where
the place names and historic sites all bear names testifying to their legacy.

But that is not the only irony in this situation. In this state, as in Arizona,
Florida and California, President Clinton significantly increased his share of
the Latino vote last November by depicting the Republicans as enemies of
immigrants. But now it is the Clinton Justice Department that is defending the
provisions of the restrictive federal immigration law.

As for the welfare bill ending benefits for legal aliens, Vice President Gore
told the California Legislature last month that it was "harsh and unfair . . .
to tell 4 million people in California who work here, pay taxes here, maybe even
serve in the military here . . . that you are not going to receive the helping
hand that everyone else who is legally living here is entitled to." He did not
explain why Clinton had signed the welfare bill containing these provisions at a
ceremony last summer where Gore led the applause.

Among other things, the bill ends Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits
this summer for some half a million elderly noncitizens with serious mental or
physical disabilities. For many of these longtime legal residents, SSI is their
only source of income. Immigration regulations announced last month make it
slightly easier for some of them with severe disabilities to be exempted from
answering the examination questions necessary to become a citizen. But as
Patrick J. McDonnell, a Los Angeles Times reporter, noted in a story last month,
"bulging naturalization backlogs -- almost 1 million applicants are in the
pipeline nationwide -- make it extremely unlikely that those applying now will
attain citizenship in time to avoid the August termination date for benefits."

As Wendell Primus points out in Focus, a publication of the University of
Wisconsin-Madison Institute for Research on Poverty, the cutoff of benefits to
legal immigrants was fueled by a desire for budgetary savings (an estimated $22
billion in six years) and by the belief that many were abusing the system by
claiming benefits soon after arriving.

That belief is wrong. Only one in five legal aliens receiving SSI went on the
rolls in their first two years of residency. Two of five had lived here (and
paid taxes) for more than six years before filing claims. When the federal
government washed its hands of the problem of providing a safety net for legal
aliens, it left it to the states -- which in many cases, like in New Mexico,
placed the fate of these people in the hands of a single official like Gov.
Johnson. It ought to weigh on the consciences of those who knew what they were
doing was wrong.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David S. Broder is a Washington Post columnist.
RELATED STORY: page 9B

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 11, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OK, GRANDMA PLEASE,

BYLINE: ANDREW LAM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 824 words

"PLEASE, Grandma, blink, just blink, please," my mother says, but Grandma only
smiles. Then she says, "Bye, bye," her wheelchair gleaming in the sunlight.
"Bye, bye." It is all the English that she remembers.

"All right, Grandma," I say, taking over, "If blinking's too hard, try to nod.
Nod, please, it's important. Very important."

We hold our breaths and wait. Nothing. No blink, no nod. Only that constant
beatific smile. My mother finally throws her hands up and sighs. "This is it. We
are doomed."

Grandma must learn to blink or nod her head at the right time. If she fails to
do so in front of the officer from the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
she may die.

I am not exaggerating. Without the much coveted U.S. citizenship, she'll be cut
off from the health care that has kept her alive for the last decade.

Blink, Grandma, please.

The problem is that Grandma's once sharp mind has dwindled to that of an infant,
peppered with sporadic moments of lucidity.

She's 87, diabetic and severely senile. Since a stroke left her partially
paralyzed several years ago, she has resided in a convalescent home where
attendants regularly measure her blood and inject the insulin she needs.

As a legal immigrant who has lived here for more than two decades, she is
qualified for U.S. citizenship. In 1994 Congress passed a law that exempted
seriously disabled immigrants from English proficiency and civics requirements.
Then, last month, the INS issued new rules removing that exemption. The INS says
it will be flexible about ways that these immigrants can take the oath. Blinking
or nodding, they say, will suffice.

But what seems to the INS an easy, even a charitable solution is more like cruel
and unusual punishment to mentally handicapped immigrants. How can a person
suffering Alzheimer's disease nod at the right moment? Can you teach a mentally
retarded child to blink, pretending to understand that he's taking an oath? And
can people in comas or completely gone into their own worlds possibly grasp that
a single gesture has such enormous significance.

The situation would be sardonically funny in a play or movie -- Samuel Beckett,
I should think, or perhaps Stanley Kubrick. But this is not make-believe. This
is the new American reality for hundreds of thousands of immigrant families like
mine.

Blink, Grandma, please.

Of course, if Grandma is thrown out of the convalescent home she will be far
from a life on the street: We take care of our own. But how well? And how long?
My parents are not rich. They worked for decades to achieve a modest
middle-class life, complete with a home in the suburbs. But they are both in
their late 60s and can't possibly perform round-the-clock care let alone medical
duties.

It comes down to this. If Grandma fails to blink at the right time she will not
become an American citizen. Then the government may take away her health care.
If that happens, my parents may have to sell their home, the sum of their labor,
to pay for her medical treatment. Then after all the money's gone, what?

Blink, Grandma, please.

This woman, gray-haired, smiling in the sunlight, survived two wars in Vietnam.
She has seen enough horrors to last 10 lifetimes -- including having her home
bombed twice by American planes. She raised four children on her own when her
husband died at the age of 34 and, after we fled to America 22 years ago,
babysat hergrandchildren, cooked and cleaned.

In her mid-70s she decided to go back to school to study English. "Never give
up," she often told her grandchildren. "When there is still work, you must
finish it."

Her strong values passed down to three generations, all now hard-working
Americans. But in her twilight, my grandmother is faced with something she can
not possibly fight. The banal bureaucracy of the U.S. government.

Blink, Grandma, please.

Last year, some of my aunts and uncles voted for Proposition 187, the
"anti-illegal immigrant initiative," hoping to draw the line between legal and
illegal. But they soon discovered that line did not hold. It has becomes clear
to us all that the anti-immigrant purge makes no such distinctions and is going
after the weakest link -- the aged immigrants, those who could not vote, or have
no public voice.

But will it stop there?

If we are ready to force retarded and senile immigrants to blink and nod before
we care for them, then we ourselves have already shut our eyes. As
anti-immigrant sentiment grows, we no longer recognize ourselves as a nation of
immigrants. When a society hides behind bureaucracy to do its dirty work the
only logical outcome is cruelty.

"OK, Grandma, let's pretend I'm the American officer," I say, "When I read you
the oath, you blink or nod, OK? Try it."

But Grandma only smiles. "Bye, bye," she says. Suddenly, she seems so small and
frail and far away, fading into nothingness under that glaring California
sunlight. "Bye, bye."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Andrew Lam is an editor with the Pacific News Service.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 17, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNSTANDARDIZED TEST INS STRIVING TO MAKE CITIZENSHIP EXAMS FAIR AND CONSISTENT

BYLINE: DEB RIECHMANN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


TO BECOME an American citizen, Yolanda Bolanos of Maryland had to answer three
questions about the U.S. government and write the sentence, "How is the day
today?"

In Virginia, Marina Sanchez had to come up with correct answers for seven of 10
questions on a written civics test and read aloud a sentence in English.

An immigration officer in California fired 10 questions at Juan Noguera,
including fairly tough ones like: "How many amendments are there to the
Constitution?" (Answer: 27.)

On two of the most dreaded requirements for immigrants seeking citizenship --
English proficiency and knowledge of American civics -- testing varies state to
state, city to city, even examiner to examiner.

The government's fuzzy test guidelines are getting more attention at a time when
the number of citizenship applications is increasing wildly in response to the
new welfare law's effects on immigrants and a crackdown on illegal immigrants.
An estimated 1.8 million people will apply for citizenship this year, up from
300,000 in 1992.

Struggling to keep up, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has hired a
consulting firm to do a $4.3 million review of the naturalization process from
application to oath -- the third such study in three years.

Immigrant advocates and experts say qualified applicants sometimes fail because
their accents are too heavy for the examiner to understand, because an examiner
simply has had a bad day or because they can't answer obscure questions such as
"What is the Ninth Amendment?" (Answer: It states that Americans may enjoy
rights not mentioned in the Constitution.)

The variance in testing was highlighted in a report last year by the Center for
Equal Opportunity, a conservative think tank in Washington.

Twenty of 33 INS district offices gave oral civics tests, two gave written
exams, eight did it both ways and three said their test format varies, the
center found. Results also varied widely on the numbers of questions asked and
the percentages of right answers required to pass.

Walter Schmidt, an INS adjudications officer in Houston, said the law does not
specify how many questions should be asked, but he said the official flexibility
tends to benefit the applicants.

"We do bend over backwards to help the applicants, especially if they are
nervous or all of a sudden draw a blank," he said.

Giving only written tests, or standardizing them in some other way, could work
against immigrants from countries that do not have Westernized styles of
education, he said.

In Washington, INS official David Rosenberg said the agency doesn't want to make
civics tests harder or easier but is considering asking more relevant questions.

Instead of "Who is the current chief justice of the United States?" maybe
applicants should be asked "What does the high court do?" he said.

The law also doesn't set an English-language standard.

"There was not one office or examiner that had the same philosophy as the next,"
according to a 1995 report by the Center for Applied Linguistics in Sarasota,
Fla.

A third report, written by INS consultant PRC Inc., said time could be saved if
immigrants schooled in the United States did not have to take the English and
civics tests. It also said any attempt to redesign the system should try to make
the agency more friendly.

"Many of the individuals working in naturalization have played roles as law
enforcement officials, and there is an ambience, subtle but pervasive, of
enforcement surrounding today's processes," the report said.

"Some adjudicators have actively gone beyond the standard questions, asking
immigrants why they have so many children, or why are they in the United
States," said Ming Leung of the National Asian Pacific American Legal
Consortium.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Diagram, Photo;
DIAGRAM: SAMPLE QUESTIONS
[Ten sample questions from the INS exam]
Source: Associated Press
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Juana Calidonio Lopez and Victor Callejas are sworn in as U.S. citizens in
Arlington, Va.
[970417 FR 19A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 23, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. IMMIGRATION ROSE 27% IN '96 22% OF NEWCOMERS FAVORED CALIFORNIA AS THEIR
NEW HOME

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Legal immigration to the United States surged 27 percent last year, with about
one in five of the newcomers calling California home.

Skilled workers and relatives of new U.S. citizens spurred the increase, which
brought to 915,900 the number of immigrants legally admitted in 1996. The annual
number has been higher only 10 times this century.

"We've seen a record number of applications" to become citizens, said Virginia
Kice, California-based representative of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. "As more people become citizens, more people are in a position to
immigrate their relatives."

Once someone becomes a citizen, there's no quota on the number of immediate
relatives -- spouses, children and parents -- she or he can bring in.

Magnet cities like San Jose, San Francisco and Los Angeles helped draw a total
of 201,529 legal immigrants to California last year, the newly released INS
figures show.

At the same time, though, the state's share of all legal immigrants appears to
be diminishing gradually, from almost 26 percent in 1994 to 22 percent in 1996.
After California, the states cited most frequently by immigrants as intended
residences were New York, Florida, Texas, New Jersey and Illinois.

Two of every three legal immigrants last year, or 596,264 people, were relatives
of U.S. citizens or legal U.S. residents. Many came because their U.S. sponsors
achieved legal status through a 1986 immigration amnesty law.

Many of the relatives were already living illegally in the United States, and
adjusted their status under a provision of the immigration law. The next-highest
number of immigrants, 117,499, arrived on employment-based visas.

Mexico continued as the leading source of new immigrants, accounting for 18
percent of all immigrants nationwide. Mexicans, however, accounted for 32
percent of immigrants intending to live in California.

The Philippines and Vietnam were the next-leading sources of immigrants coming
to California.

Many analysts believe that the immigration levels will taper off in coming
years, though predicting immigration can be difficult. Some of the 1996 increase
also reflects immigrants who were already in the country last year, but whose
INS processing had been delayed from the year before.

Still, some key lawmakers cited the 1996 increase as a reason to again reform
the nation's immigration system.

"Why admit millions more unskilled immigrants who depress wages and take jobs
away from American citizens?" asked Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the
House immigration subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Ken McLaughlin contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 29, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COUNTDOWN STARTS FOR WELFARE CUTOFF

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Immigrant rights advocates met Monday in a church near the state Capitol to mark
the 100-day countdown to the cutoff of federal food stamps and welfare benefits
for legal immigrants.

Leaders of the Coalition for Immigrant Rights criticized President Clinton and
Congress for enacting welfare reforms that coalition leader Renee Saucedo
described as a "horrible, immoral law."

Saucedo also announced plans for another rally at the state Capitol on May 28.
Her goal is enactment of state legislation to replace benefits the federal
government plans to eliminate in August for an estimated 300,000 legal
immigrants.

Prospects for enactment of such a law were dim a short time ago, she said, but
that "momentum is building" as the public has learned what will happen to legal
immigrants.

She said two suicides of legal immigrants in California this year -- one in
Stockton and another in Chico -- were caused by the prospect of being left
without any assistance.

"We are here to send a loud message to the immigrant community: There is hope.
Don't take such drastic action," Saucedo said. "We are here to send a loud
message to the Legislature. The immigrant community will be heard."

Saucedo blamed the president and Congress for the problem, as well as Gov. Pete
Wilson for taking away benefits. She said, as a practical matter, "we must focus
at the state level" for relief.

Donna Wolfe of the California Statewide Lao Hmong Coalition added that "there is
panic and havoc in our community. Welfare reform is a health and human disaster
in the making."

Wilson has proposed extending state benefits for up to 48,000 elderly and
disabled legal immigrants facing the loss of federal aid.

His spokeswoman, Lisa Kalustian, said Wilson was withholding any comment on
specific bills before the Legislature, but that as a general rule he believes
legal immigrants are the federal government's responsibility.

"Food stamps and SSI (welfare benefits) are federal programs," she said. "The
governor has traveled to Washington several times to lobby for providing for
legal immigrants."

The loss of federal benefits for legal immigrants is the top topic for 46 state
lawmakers who are spending this week in Washington, D.C., lobbying Congress and
the Clinton administration.

In California, about 247,000 mostly aged, blind and disabled immigrants will
lose welfare benefits in August and an additional 350,000 will lose food stamps,
according to the office of Assembly Speaker Cruz Bustamante, D-Fresno.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Renee Saucedo of the Coalition for Immigrant Rights criticizes President Clinton
and Congress on Monday in Sacramento.
[970429 CA 3B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 3, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP AGREES TO RESTORE AID TO LEGAL IMMIGRANTS CHANGE OF HEART: THE NEW PLAN
CALLS FOR FUNDING DISABILITY PAYMENTS.

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 761 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Once firm in their resolve not to weaken any part of the nation's tough new
welfare law, Republicans agreed Friday to restore aid to some legal immigrants
-- a gesture of compassion forged by politics.

The budget-balancing agreement, announced by White House and congressional
negotiators, includes about $11 billion over five years for legal non-citizens
who were getting disability payments from the government when Clinton signed the
new welfare law last August.

"It would restore cuts to benefits for legal immigrants who are in this country,
who have sustained injuries and other problems for which they would otherwise be
eligible for benefits," a jubilant President Clinton said in announcing terms of
the deal.

Recipients of that aid had faced a cutoff this summer of Supplemental Security
Income (SSI), which goes to those who are elderly or disabled and poor.

After some Republican governors stood on the White House lawn in February and
argued for revisions to the welfare law, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott,
R-Miss., said flatly: "It would be hard for us to open up welfare now."

But under increasing pressure from immigrant-rights organizations and wary of
publicity about elderly and disabled immigrants facing the loss of basic aid,
GOP negotiators yielded to President Clinton's determination to soften the
impact of the welfare bill he signed into law.

"The Republicans blinked because they could not possibly be seen as responsible
for having these people's blood on their hands," said Cecilia Munoz of the
National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil rights group. "Even the most
cold-hearted don't want to be responsible for throwing a 97-year-old immigrant
out in the street. The political calculation here is that the Republicans don't
want to be tagged as being mean-spirited and rotten."

Some 500,000 legal immigrants would have lost SSI payments under the welfare
law. Friday's agreement, which will require legislation before it can be
implemented, restores those payments to disabled immigrants who were receiving
SSI when the law was signed. Advocates said it appears there is not enough money
to cover legal immigrants who have entered the country since then, although that
was still subject to negotiations.

Republicans and Democrats, who said precise details were still being worked out,
could not agree whether elderly immigrants who are not disabled are affected by
the agreement. But California lawmakers said they would fight to make sure those
with age-related illnesses were covered in legislation to implement the
agreement.

They estimated that as many as 80 percent of SSI recipients would have benefits
restored under terms of the deal.

"The anti-immigrant posture of the Republican Party has blown up in its face,"
said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum. "It's
no accident that the California state Assembly is now Democratic, that Cruz
Bustamante is now speaker (of the California Assembly), that (former GOP Rep.)
Bob Dornan lost to (Rep.) Loretta Sanchez, and that Clinton won easily in
California. The Republicans now realize that they followed (Gov.) Pete Wilson
over a cliff."

Wilson has been an ardent supporter of welfare cutbacks for immigrants.

The agreement does not restore food-stamp allotments to legal immigrants, some 1
million of whom lost that aid in last summer's welfare fight.

In California, 293,000 non-citizens received SSI last year. Besides federal
benefits of up to $484 a month, the state pays $156 a month to elderly or
disabled recipients and $211 to the blind. But Wilson has planned to eliminate
state grants for immigrants who are no longer eligible for federal funds.

Republican lawmakers have said they feared a voter backlash if they refused to
restore some welfare benefits, citing newspaper reports that some elderly
immigrants committed suicide -- or thought about it -- because of the prospect
that they would lose benefits.

Democrats said many Republicans voted for the new welfare bill last year without
realizing how far it went in erasing aid for even the neediest, such as a
93-year-old San Jose woman, who wrote Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose.

"I am 93 years old and will be 94 in 1997," the woman wrote. "I am a legal
refugee in U.S. about 11 years. I am not a citizen because 3-4 years ago I
didn't know enough English. . . . I got a letter that I will lose my SSI and may
become homeless, too. I don't hear well. I need to use a walker and at 94, I am
unable to go to work. What can I do?"

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Clinton
[970503 FR 14A 1]
PHOTO: Lott
[970503 FR 14A 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 11, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE ORDERS DEPORTATION OF FIGURE IN EXORCISM DEATH KOREAN-BORN WOMAN CONVICTED
IN RITUAL BEATING

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 284 words


A federal immigration judge Friday ordered the deportation of a Korean-born
woman who was convicted a year ago in the ritual beating death of a 25-year-old
cult follower from Emeryville in a deadly all-night exorcism.

Judge Mimi Yam Schooley stripped charismatic religious leader Eun Park, also
known as Jean Park, of her right to remain in the United States, said Sharon
Rummery of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Park, 31, the founder of Jesus-Amen Ministries, and her mother, 53-year-old Hwa
Ja Ra, were found guilty of the March 8, 1995, beating death of a 25-year-old
Korean woman who was said to be possessed by demons.

The victim, Kyung-A Ha, was struck about a hundred times and suffered 10 broken
ribs.

One witness testified at a preliminary hearing in 1995 that Park told her young
disciples to pin the woman down and muffle her cries as Park beat her, prayed
over her and walked on her stomach in three rituals the week before the woman's
March 8 death.

"(Park) explained that by striking the girl, she was hurting the demon inside
her, and the places she would strike were the strongholds of the demon," the
witness told the court.

The mother and daughter were charged with murder by Alameda County prosecutors,
but both pleaded no contest to involuntary manslaughter in the woman's death.
They were sentenced to three years in prison with credit for time served.

The INS pushed for Park's deportation when she was recently released from state
prison. The agency can force legal residents to leave the country if convicted
of certain serious crimes.

Judge Yam has given Park 30 days to appeal, Rummery said. The status of Park's
mother was unavailable.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     MAY 23, 1997 Friday PENINSULA EDITION

GRANT TO FOSTER CITIZENSHIP;
$5 MILLION AWARDED TO HELP IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 361 words


A consortium of 12 Bay Area counties was awarded a $5 million matching grant
Wednesday to help legal immigrants attain U.S. citizenship.

The Northern California Citizenship Project, a partnership of government,
charitable foundations and non-profit agencies, will use the funds to help
nearly 50,000 senior and disabled legal immigrants who will lose Supplemental
Security Income and food stamps under federal welfare reform unless they become
naturalized citizens by Aug. 22.

The money will help counties reach many immigrants who face an especially
difficult time attaining citizenship because they are in their 90s, are
homebound or suffer from post-traumatic stress syndrome or Alzheimer's disease.

No. 2 philanthropist
The grant comes from the $50 million Emma Lazarus Fund in New York, created by
Hungarian-born financier George Soros to help legal immigrants become U.S.
citizens. Soros' name graced the No. 2 spot of last year's list of the top 10
philanthropists nationwide as compiled by the online magazine Slate.

"This project is not going to serve as an absolute solution to the impact of the
welfare legislation, but for a significant number of seniors and disabled, it
will serve to protect them from homelessness and poverty," said Herb Castillo of
the San Francisco Foundation, one of the participating organizations.

First $2 million
In the first year of the program, $2 million will be made available to the
consortium, which will serve legal immigrants from Sonoma to Monterey. The
remaining $3 million will be allocated as matching funds are raised. So far,
$3.4 million has been raised from local governments and community foundations.

Santa Clara County, with 31,000 legal immigrants who may lose SSI or food stamps
-- the largest affected population -- has contributed $250,000. San Francisco
and Alameda counties have pledged $100,000 each.

The money will be used to educate immigrants about citizenship, expand
naturalization programs, hire multilingual workers, pay for cameras to take
application photos and buy materials to help immigrants study for the tests,
project members said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 8B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 23, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PANELS SEEK TO PROBE ABUSE OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: ARTHUR H. ROTSTEIN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz.


Anecdotes like this one are numerous: A Border Patrol agent hits an American of
Mexican descent, handcuffs and detains him for three hours, accusing him of
having fake citizenship papers.

The man says, "I was born here; this is my country."

The agents reply, "This is not your country; you come from Tijuana."

Thursday, advisory committees to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights cited more
than two dozen such examples in their long-awaited report calling on Congress to
create an independent commission to investigate claims of serious misconduct by
immigration officials.

The current ways of investigating misconduct "are inadequate and inaccessible
and lack the confidence of the communities most directly affected," said the
report, which was based on hearings held in 1992 and 1993.

Large-scale federal immigration enforcement in Southwest border communities
often "serves to diminish the protection of civil rights, especially for
Hispanics," it said.

Advisory committees from California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas recommended
restructuring the complaint process within the Justice Department's Office of
the Inspector General and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The report cited extensive testimony and information indicating "that a pattern
of abusive treatment by Border Patrol officials might exist. . . . The sheer
statistical numbers and severity of abuse complaints are a cause of deep
concern."

"Nowadays, back in Dallas, Texas, civil rights has almost become a dirty word,"
said Judge Adolph Canales, chairman of the Texas committee. "We can never allow
that to happen, never. It is too important a concept in the liberty that we have
in this country that we must always fight to protect."

Some human rights activists have criticized the U.S. Civil Rights Commission for
holding up the report.

Some federal officials attacked the findings.

"Many of the contentions of reports such as this are vague at best," said Rob
Daniels of the Border Patrol's Tucson sector.

Daniels said figures compiled by the Office of the Inspector General showed a
four-year low in allegations in fiscal 1996. He said there were 110 allegations
filed against the sector's 889 officers in more than 333,000 arrests of alleged
illegal immigrants then.

The agency drew 135 complaints in the previous fiscal year over 248,000 arrests,
he said.

Justice and INS officials issued responses included within the 125-page report
suggesting that a commission wasn't needed.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner, while acknowledging that the report was
"virtually free of substantive inaccuracies," asserted that some of the
information was dated.

"More unfortunately, the time lag has precluded description of the very
aggressive, extensive and successful efforts that we in the INS and the
Department of Justice have made to prevent human and civil rights abuses," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MAY 28, 1997 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS PLAN CAPITOL PROTEST

BYLINE: T. T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 734 words


An estimated 4,000 demonstrators from across Northern California -- including 11
busloads of immigrants from the South Bay -- plan to converge on the state
Capitol steps at noon today to demand restoration of public assistance.

The group seeks state legislation to replace benefits the federal government
plans to eliminate in August for an estimated 300,000 legal immigrants in
California.

"We're taking 10 times as many people from our county as we did for the first
rally on March 18," said Richard Hobbs of Santa Clara County Citizenship and
Immigration Services. "People feel they want to do something, and the senior
centers are very involved this time."

Representatives of about 150 California organizations and their constituents are
scheduled to meet with 60 California legislators and Gov. Pete Wilson throughout
the day, dubbed "Immigrant Day II," which will include a rally at the Capitol
and interfaith services at Blessed Sacrament Cathedral.

Joining Vietnamese, Chinese and Latino permanent residents are the recently
arrived Bosnians, Russians and Eastern Europeans. Many are exercising their
right to demonstrate for the first time in their lives.

The action was coordinated by the Northern California Coalition for Immigrant
Rights, in conjunction with the Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and
Services of Santa Clara County, a coalition of religious groups, labor councils
and ethnic organizations.

"Our goal is to have immigrants speak (directly) to state legislators," said
Renee Saucedo, director of the immigrant rights coalition in San Francisco,
which organized both rallies. Two days after the first "Immigrant Day" on March
18, Gov. Wilson extended food stamp benefits through September, she said.

The demonstrators want full restoration of SSI and food stamp benefits for the
elderly, prenatal and long-term care, and more state funds for citizenship
classes. Welfare reform should not be made at the expense of the immigrant
community, Saucedo contended, particularly when the state's coffers are full.

"The state has more than enough money to provide for all low-income residents,"
said Saucedo, citing the governor's revised budget which shows a $2.3 billion
increase in projected state revenues and $1.1 billion in budget savings.

Many of the demonstrators coming from the Central Valley and the Sacramento area
are originally from the highlands of Laos -- Hmong and Iu Mien -- and feel
especially threatened by the cutoffs. Yee Xiong of the California Statewide
Lao/Hmong Coalition said he gets dozens of phone calls every day from "people
who are crying."

"They don't know where to turn and how to express their concerns, since they
can't speak the language," Xiong said. "They tell me, 'We have sacrificed our
lives for the United States, and we need to be heard.' " Some have spoken of
killing themselves and their families out of desperation, he said.

In March, Fong Cha, a Hmong from the Yolo County town of Willows, reportedly
collapsed and died after receiving the notification that his benefits would be
cut off. During the Vietnam war in Laos, Cha had rescued a downed American
pilot, and his family was forced to leave their village and subsequently Laos
because of his good deed.

Xiong said there have been Hmong suicides in Butte and Glenn counties and
Stockton related to despair over the impending cutoff.

Many are Hmong war veterans, recruited by the CIA during the Vietnam war to
fight in Indochina with pledges that the U.S. government would stand by them and
take care of them.

"The state needs to watch out for the elderly, permanent legal residents who
feel that this is another form of persecution -- as if they hadn't suffered
enough in Laos," Xiong said.

There are about 160,000 Hmong in the United States.

In California, about 247,000 mostly aged, blind and disabled immigrants are
projected to lose welfare benefits in August, and an additional 350,000 will
lose food stamp eligibility, according to the office of Assembly Speaker Cruz
Bustamante, D-Fresno.

But fewer actually may be affected. Earlier this month, the federal Department
of Health and Human Services articulated the administration's definition of
disabled as "unable to work." As a result, the Office of Budget and Management
has estimated that two-thirds of the elderly immigrants will be able to
requalify for SSI benefits.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 4B, Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
The Rev. John Freesemann of Holy Redeemer Lutheran Church in San Jose speaks
Tuesday against welfare reform legislation at a prayer session at San Jose's St.
Joseph Basilica.
[970528 LO 1B AL 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 29, 1997 Thursday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' OUTCRY CAPITOL PROTESTERS ASK STATE FOR WELFARE-CUT RELIEF

BYLINE: SAM DIAZ AND MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 904 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Jesus and Maria Anaya were just two faces in the crowd outside the Capitol on
Wednesday morning -- and tiny voices in the big welfare reform debate.

Alone, the legal immigrants from San Jose represent a small portion of the
federal disability budget -- $699 a month to be exact -- and just a sliver out
of the federal medical benefits pie.

But joined by the estimated 2,000 other immigrants and immigrant-rights
supporters who converged on the steps of the Capitol, the 68-year-old man and
his 55-year-old wife who journeyed by bus with other parishioners from Our Lady
of Guadalupe Church tried to be a loud enough voice for Gov. Pete Wilson and the
Legislature to hear.

The Anayas and nearly a half-million legal immigrants stand to lose federal
benefits by the end of summer. About 350,000 of them will lose food stamps,
benefits all slashed by President Clinton when he signed a federal welfare
reform law last year. Immigrant groups are demanding that the state, which is
enjoying higher revenues this year, make up the difference.

So they came. From San Jose, San Francisco, Oakland, Los Angeles and the Central
Valley. They came by bus and by car caravan to speak directly of their fears.

Renee Saucedo, executive director of the Northern California Coalition for
Immigrant Rights, said the state needs to "restore all benefits to immigrants to
maintain a safety net."

Though the original proposal has been revised to restore SSI benefits to some of
the oldest and most disabled immigrants, the changes should restore them to all
immigrants, she said.

"The federal government made a mistake," she said. "Now people want to fix this
mistake. The federal government isn't going far enough. We need to urge the
state to fill in the rest of the gaps."

But when it came time to meet face-to-face with representatives of the governor,
the results were less than satisfying, she said.

The demonstrators wanted a commitment from the governor's office that
recipients' benefits would be restored by the state. After presenting their
concerns, there still was no commitment, she said.

Gov. Wilson is earmarking nearly $200 million in his budget to pick up the
state's share of Social Security benefits that Con gress has recently said it
wants to restore to disabled and blind legal immigrants.

But Wilson has said he will not go beyond the congressional proposal, and that
would leave 136,000 elderly legal immigrants without their Social Security
benefits. He has no plans to restore any food stamps, and he has made no
decision on how to treat those who might lose their benefits while they await
citizenship -- a process that can take nearly a year.

"These are federal programs. Immigration is a federal issue. We have new rules
to live by," said Wilson spokeswoman Lisa Kalustian, who said the governor
encourages legal immigrants to retain benefits by becoming citizens. The
governors critics contend that many of the elderly are so infirm of mind and
body, however, that they have been unable to learn enough to pass the
citizenship test.

Kalustian said the governor does not support a state-sponsored food stamp
program because "it's prohibitively expensive" at an estimated $250 million a
year if none of the 350,000 immigrant participants gains citizenship.

Budget proposals pending before both the Assembly and Senate would go further by
authorizing about $80 million to pay for disability benefits and provide food
stamps for legal immigrants who cannot become citizens.

The funding proposals are based on expectations that the vast majority of
immigrants will apply for citizenship and that Congress will decide to foot the
bill during the time it often takes to be naturalized.

Billie Wachter, a member of San Jose-based People Opposed to Welfare Rollbacks,
attended Wednesday's demonstration in protest of the government for singling out
immigrants in its cutbacks.

"We're not endangered by immigrants," she said. "Some of these people have
worked and paid taxes and built this country the same way all the rest of us
have. It is not right to all of a sudden say they're not entitled" to benefits.

That's how Maria Anaya feels, too.

For 45 years, her husband worked legally as a farm laborer until back surgery
left him disabled. They rely on his SSI check to survive.

"If they cut my husband off, I don't know what will happen," she said.

Event organizers said people like the Anayas have been contributors to American
society.

The couple's 18-year-old daughter is a high school graduate who is attending San
Jose City College to become a teacher. At 55, Maria Anaya recently enrolled in
school to work on her English and hopefully land a job to help support the
household.

"Some of these people have been here for years, worked and played by the rules,"
said Assembly majority leader Antonio Villaraigosa, D-Los Angeles, who has
written a bill that would require the state to restore the lost federal
benefits. "Now they are sick" and need the help.

A large group at Wednesday's rally were Southeast Asians from the Central Valley
who held up signs to remind the government that they fought alongside American
troops in the wars in Vietnam and Laos and that the government made promises to
take care of them, particularly those who were recruited secretly by the CIA.

"Broken promises. Remember my family died for yours," one sign read.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Cher Pao Her, a Laos native, was among hundreds of immigrants seeking continued
welfare aid.
[970529 LO 2B AL]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Ta Tong, a native of Laos, joined Wednesday's demonstration that urged
restoration of lost federal welfare benefits.
[970529 LO 1B AL 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JUNE 2, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANGEL ISLAND'S BLEAK ERA FOR YEARS, A SEA OF IMMIGRANT CHINESE WERE DETAINED
THERE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: ANGEL ISLAND


Dale Ching walks to the spot where he slept in a bunk bed for 3 1/2 months in
1937, a prisoner of U.S. immigration laws.

He wraps his hand around the pole that held his bunk and tells how the joy he
felt upon landing in San Francisco turned into despair as he spent night after
night on the narrow bed.

"I thought, 'In a couple of days, I'll be with my dad,' " he recalls. "But they
wouldn't let us even see each other."

Ching, now 75, was a boy of 16 when he arrived -- alone -- at the shores of San
Francisco, only to be whisked to an immigration station on Angel Island a mile
away.

"When you get off the ferry, there's a welcome party," he recalls. "What I mean
is, there's an armed guard."

Like thousands of other Chinese, Ching was locked up until he convinced
immigration officials his papers were real.

After he was released to his father, Ching vowed never to return. But in 1991,
he did.

"My grandchildren made me come," he says.

Soon after, Ching -- afraid history might be forgotten -- donned a volunteer's
coat himself. He was determined the next generation would know the history of
Angel Island.

Today, Angel Island is a state park admired for its beauty and cherished as a
weekend getaway.

But from 1910 to 1940, the island -- accessible only by boat -- served as a
detention center for some 175,000 Chinese immigrants who landed in San
Francisco.

The Chinese Exclusion Act, enacted in 1882 after an economic depression
triggered widespread anti-Chinese sentiment, barred entry to all but students,
diplomats and merchants.

But when the 1906 San Francisco earthquake destroyed city birth records,
thousands of Chinese tried to prove they were the American-born sons of
merchants.

They became "paper sons," memorizing coaching books on the ship ride over and
tossing them overboard as they approached shore.

These paper sons -- and daughters -- spent weeks, even months at Angel Island as
immigration officials scrutinized their applications.

Ching, the fourth generation in his family to journey between China and the
United States, was not a paper son. He left southern China to join his father, a
merchant in San Francisco.

"Technically, I shouldn't (have been held at Angel Island). My grandparents were
born in the U.S. My father was a citizen. That makes me a citizen," he says.
"Automatic."

But, along with the others, he was marched down the dock to the hospital. They
were stripped, examined for diseases, and -- if healthy -- were taken up a long
stretch of wooden steps to the detention barracks.

Men were separated from their wives, mothers from their teenage sons. The
Chinese were housed in cramped first-floor barracks; other Asian and some
European immigrants were kept upstairs.

One by one, detainees were brought before immigration officials and grilled for
hours.

A relative was brought in separately and asked the same questions.

In Ching's case, he and his uncle described one small detail about their house
in China differently. Ching was to be deported.

Those who failed the interrogations and appealed deportations remained jailed,
despair, sadness and frustration marking their days.

Some men took to writing poetry, painting the verses on barrack walls with brush
and ink, or carving couplets into the wood with knives. None signed their names.

"The carving is not just a mark on the wall. It's to express yourself," Ching
says. "There was a lot of sadness -- who's going to listen?"

One afternoon, a guard came to the men's barracks, called Ching's name, and said
only two words: "Dai Fo."

Hearing the words, Cantonese for "San Francisco," Ching knew he had won his
appeal.

Reunited with his father, Ching attended high school. In 1942, five years after
the United States tried to deport him, he joined the Army.

The Chinese Immigration Act was repealed in 1943.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Dale Ching, 75, is now a park docent on Angel Island, but 60 years ago, he was
detained there while his immigration status was cleared.
[970602 CA 3B 1]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Above, more than 130 anonymous poems were etched into the walls of the Angel
Island detention center, where thousands of immigrants from China and elsewhere
were held for weeks and even months at a time from 1910 to 1940.
[970602 CA 3B 2]
PHOTO: NATIONAL ARCHIVES
In an archive photo, Chinese children are given physical exams.
[970602 CA 3B 3]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 4, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OBJECTIVE STUDY CONFIRMS IT: IMMIGRATION IS BENEFICIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 457 words


JUST when immigrants are about to be slammed by last year's reform legislation,
a report ordered by the government says immigration benefits the U.S. economy.
Yet another study has concluded that immigrants don't cost us in any big way.

According to 12 economists, demographers and sociologists from the National
Research Council, which is a part of the National Academy of Sciences,
immigrants contribute $10 billion annually in productivity and lower prices for
consumers as a result of lower entry-level wages.

On the downside, at least one group of Americans -- high-school dropouts -- is
having a hard time competing against immigrants for low-wage jobs. Even in this
respect, the researchers said, the adverse effect is tiny and spread throughout
the country.

This report was not paid for by some pro-immigrant group. It was requested by
the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, whose members are appointed by
Congress, and which actually wants to lower the number of immigrants allowed
into the country. Immigration reports don't come any more objective or
unpartisan than this.

The report strengthens the position that legal immigration wasn't broke when
Congress and President Clinton tried to fix it.

Most provisions of that new legislation go into effect this summer. It will make
life harder for new, legal immigrants, not just illegal ones. Legal immigrants
now won't qualify for some minimal safety-net programs, such as food stamps.
With less recourse to the courts, they'll be at the mercy of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, one of the most notoriously inefficient agencies in
government.

To be sure, there is some news in this report that becomes alarming in the wrong
hands.

For example, the report says that native-born California households pay $1,178
per year in taxes to provide services to immigrants, more than people in other
states pay. That supports Gov. Pete Wilson's argument for federal reimbursement
to the state treasury. However, what the governor doesn't mention is the greater
economic benefit California enjoys for having these immigrants. Look at two
major multi-billion-dollar industries -- agriculture and garment manufacturing
-- that depend on immigrant workers. Whatever immigrants cost California in
public services, they bring in much more.

The greatest immediate cost is in schooling immigrant children. In the long run,
the report states, it's an investment. These children will be tomorrow's
productive workers, paying the taxes that will fund Medicare, Social Security
and various local public services.

President Clinton may have a few opportunities left to fix the faulty
immigration reform law. This new report should be on his reading list.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 7, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHITE HOUSE MUST LEAD ON REFUGEE POLICY, PANEL SAYS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 89 words


A bipartisan commission on immigration Friday called on the White House to take
charge of refugee matters and exert renewed international leadership. In a
report to Congress, the Commission on Immigration Reform recommended an office
in the National Security Council to coordinate responsibilities currently
scattered among several Cabinet-level departments. The commission also asked
that President Clinton establish a task force to set guidelines for involving
U.S. military forces in humanitarian operations around the world.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 1, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

CLINTON TO SIGN WELFARE OVERHAUL LOCAL IMPACT: BILL WILL HURT LEGAL IMMIGRANTS,
COUNTY GOVERNMENT FINANCES.

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL AND S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 967 words


The welfare-reform bill will hit hardest locally at tens of thousands of legal
immigrants - threatening the fiscal footing of county governments and setting
off a ripple effect that will result in more homeless on the streets, more sick
in emergency rooms and more hungry people in soup kitchens, officials said
Wednesday.
Food stamps, Medicaid, cash grants and Supplemental Security Income payments to
the elderly, sick and disabled will be denied immediately to new immigrants when
President Clinton signs the bill, said Mary McMillan, legislative director for
San Mateo County, who has been tracking the bill.

Legal immigrants already receiving welfare will have their aid cut off during
the next year. That affects 38,000 legal immigrants - roughly one quarter of all
people now receiving some form of welfare benefits - in Santa Clara County
alone.

"What is going to happen to these people?" said Santa Clara County Supervisor
Jim Beall. "These idealistic, simplistic solutions have nothing to do with the
realities of what we're facing at the local level. I'm going to fight this all
the way."

The vast majority of those receiving welfare - roughly two-thirds - are
children, he noted.

"People think lazy people are on welfare but what we're really talking about are
children," Beall said. "These are kids."

Local governments hit

Although local officials were scrambling Wednesday to decipher the bill's
detailed provisions, all agreed the impact on local county governments would be
huge.

Santa Clara County could see money for public assistance drop by as much as 40
percent, or $800 million over five years, said county officials and the Network
for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and Services, a group of unions, religious
organizations and social welfare agencies.

"This is devastating," said Mike Nevin, president of the California State
Association of Counties. "It may bankrupt the counties. There is no one I know
who is going to turn their backs on these people. I believe we have a legal
responsibility and a moral responsibility here."

Immigrant rights groups charged that welfare reform was accomplished by
scapegoating immigrants. Immigrants represent only five percent of welfare
recipients nationwide, but will absorb 40 percent of the cuts in the welfare
reform bill.

Richard Konda, head of the Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and
Services, said the immigrant community was stunned.

"They felt when they came here they were welcomed and now they're not," Konda
said. "They've contributed, they've paid taxes, and they feel they're being
singled out."

Immigrants who will be dropped from welfare programs include people like Huu
Tran, 50, a former sergeant in the South Vietnamese Army who immigrated to the
United States in 1982.

A silver-haired man with a deeply lined face, Tran lives on a $614 monthly SSI
check, which also pays for medication to control a lingering cause of stress
disorder.

"I tried to learn English," said Tran through an interpreter, "But I had trouble
with my memory. Now, I can't find a job. I don't know English, so how could I
become a citizen?"

Control immigrant flow

Immigration reform groups, however, said the welfare reforms would help stem the
flow of immigrants.

"Those provisions are good but small steps," said Yeh Ling-Ling, national
representative of the Diversity Coalition for an Immigration Moratorium. The
real solution, Yeh said, would be a ban on legal immigration.

Ron Prince, chairman of the Save Our State group, said taxpayers are tired of
footing the bill for non-Americans.

In San Mateo County, the bill will affect about 6,200 legal immigrants, or about
12 percent of all residents receiving federal welfare aid, said Maureen Borland,
director of the county's Human Services Agency.

In Santa Cruz County, roughly one-tenth of those receiving Aid to Families with
Dependent Children are legal immigrants - or roughly 450 families, said Gail
Groves, a representative for the county's human resources agency.

Alameda County counts about 20,500 legal immigrants receiving AFDC, food stamps
or Medi-Cal, plus 13,000 receiving Supplemental Security Income. In San Benito
County, roughly 2,000 legal immigrants could be impacted, estimated Lee Collins,
director of human services.

Aid from county programs

The last resort for the destitute may be county general assistance programs,
which provide an average of $300 per month to a single person. In Santa Clara
County, there are 3,700 people receiving general assistance at a cost of roughly
$11 million annually, said Kathy Gallagher, the county's chief administrative
officer for the social services agency.

If all 38,000 legal immigrants receiving welfare apply for help, the county
general assistance rolls would increase tenfold.

Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, who supports the welfare bill said those dramatic
numbers assume that the sponsors of legal immigrants, who are held financially
responsible for their well-being, won't help out.

"The counties' number assumes that everything the federal government is now
providing to legal immigrants will have to be picked up by the counties, and we
don't know that to be true," he said.

Clinton said he would push for a new bill to restore some assistance to legal
immigrants, but that prospect remains uncertain.

Beall and others, however, said expecting immigrant's sponsors to pick up the
shortfall was "nonsense." In their view, the political fight now shifts to
Sacramento, where county officials intend to press Gov. Pete Wilson for help.
Local officials and immigrant rights groups also said they are looking at
possible legal challenges to the bill.

"Gov. Wilson wanted this bill," Beall said, "and now he's going to have to pay
for it."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story on page 1A
Mercury News Staff Writers Mark Moreno, Dan Reed, Dan Stober and Theresa Viloria
contributed to this report.
...

CORRECTION-DATE: AUGUST 2, 1996

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 8/2/96, pg. 2A)
An article about welfare reform on the front page of Wednesday's paper
incorrectly characterized the position on immigration taken by Yeh Ling-Ling,
national representative of the Diversity Coalition for an Immigration
Moratorium. She advocates not an outright ban on immigration but a five-year
moratorium during which legal immigrants would be limited to 100,000 per year.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 5, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHAT WILL BE THE REAL COST OF WELFARE AND IMMIGRATION REFORM?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 972 words


ONCE again we are presented with a Page One article profiling a "disadvantaged"
welfare recipient who will suffer under the new welfare legislation (Aug.2).

Having a logical mind, I find myself wondering:

1. Where is the sponsor who guaranteed to keep this non-English speaking
immigrant off the public dole?

2. Where is the father, or fathers, of her four children? Why does she not turn
to him or them for assistance?

3. Why should we pay the bill for her obviously poor selection of men? 4. Why is
she still having children she cannot afford?

Finally, I was intrigued at the fact that Catholic Charities is now bemoaning
the fact that they can't afford to keep supporting all of these people
adequately, either. After all, this is only one of several patriarchal churches
that deny women access to family planning and birth control.

I think it entirely appropriate that organizations that have indoctrinated their
members into having more children than they can afford should pick up more of
the load. Actually, there are many, many very responsible families who might
have had more children, or been able to afford college for the ones they did
have, if only so much of their hard-earned money wasn't going out the door in
taxes to support the absolute absence of responsibility exhibited by others.

-Kathleen Heritage
San Jose
Now that President Clinton and Congress have slashed welfare for needy women and
children, do you suppose they will begin making similar cuts in the corporate
welfare subsidies and tax breaks of their well-heeled contributors?

I hope nobody holds their breath waiting for it to happen.

- Arlen Grossman
Monterey
Arlen Grossman 1044 Paloma Road Monterey, CA 93940 (408) 394-1422

SO the welfare reform bill to be signed by the president will save $56 billion
over 6 years, about $9 billion per year.

The Congress is working on a $265 billion defense budget for the next fiscal
year. Nine billion dollars is about 3.5% of the entire budget. How about examing
the waste, fraud and abuse in the Pentagon and see if they can find $9 billion
there?

They might start with such items as Defense Secretary Perry's three in-air
refuelings on a trip to Australia. It saved him one day of travel time, but cost
the taxpayers $46,000. Is his time really worth $46,000 per day?

Or, how about the Air Force general who flew from Italy to Colorado in an Air
Force aircraft, solo, except for his secretary, and was refueled in the air. The
whole caper cost considerably more than $46,000 - somewhere over $200,000 as I
recall.

What about the third golf course recently created on a military base? The
details may escape me but the ethics reflected by the priorities do not.

We are willing to sacrifice the necessities for over 1 million children but are
not willing to curtail the perks of the most affluent recipients of the
government's largess.

Welfare is the latest enemy. We no longer have the communist threat to vent our
hostility and anger. But, we do need something and welfare seems to fill the
bill.

Those who are so concerned about their tax dollars (and I do understand their
frustration) might direct their hostility to some big ticket items of waste and
abuse.

- Dorothy Shaw
Aptos,
WE are a compassionate, hard-working people and cannot help wanting to share our
abundance with those illegal immigrants who make their way over our borders with
Mexico.

Still we must not move blindly forward, accepting vast numbers of immigrants to
the detriment of our own limited natural resources and economic well being.
Putting it the hard way, we must first take care of our own by providing
opportunity for our homeless and job openings for our young people and those on
welfare. With prudent foresight and protection of our environment we can leave
our children a living standard richer than that which we now know.

Currently, we accept and even encourage illegal immigration into our country and
then apply the fruits of our society to better the lives of these immigrants. A
noble but misdirected response. We need not lose compassion for those Mexicans
looking to better their own and their family's lives, but we do need to redirect
our efforts.

First we must recognize the national pride for one's mother country and the
desire to provide for its prosperous future. Mexicans have this desire and with
a little help can realize the fulfillment of their desire without needing to
leave their homeland.

Education is the answer and I am sure that there are many willing to give our
Mexican neighbors assistance when asked.

- Douglas Lincoln
Los Gatos
The problem is that the welfare bill places a hard time limit on payments and
ends control over how the money is spent. One must question how much money we
will ultimately save, and whether the final cost will be worth it.

Medicaid (Medi-Cal) will extend for one year after the head of family gets a
job, then they are on their own. How many former welfare clients will qualify
for an employer-sponsored medical plan by then? Not many, I guess. What will we
do then, when disease among the poor spreads to everybody?

Will we see increased illiteracy and dispair, with an increasingly poor
underclass turning to crime, victimizing themselves and the rest of us? Who will
pay for the additional police, judges, and prisons to prevent loss of life and
property?

How can a head of household support his family on a pre-tax income of $12,000? I
know I couldn't. Could you?

Perhaps this welfare bill will ultimately be a good thing, not because of what
it does, but because of what it overlooks. Its human costs may turn out to be
high, but this law could force us to face the basic issues after its
shortcomings become painfully obvious.

- Philip Bond
Castro Valley

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 10, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IT'S A WAY TO PROTECT BENEFITS THAT LEGAL IMMIGRANTS HAVE EARNED AS WELL AS
STRENGTHEN OUR COMMUNITY CITIZEN PATH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 476 words

"It is just wrong to say to people, we'll let you work here, you're helping our
country, you'll pay taxes, you serve in our military, you may get killed
defending America - but if somebody mugs you on a street corner or you get
cancer or you get hit by a car or the same thing happens to your children, we're
not going to give you assistance any more."

- President Clinton, July 31.
WITH those words, the president summed up our main objection to the provision of
the new welfare law that cuts off federal assistance to legal immigrants. The
law is mean-spirited. It ignores the fact that most people who come to this
country work hard, pay their taxes and obey the laws. If they become disabled or
are abandoned by sponsors or relatives, they ought to be eligible for a helping
hand just as other residents are.

Congressional leaders cut benefits to immigrants in order to pay for
welfare-to-work programs. Something had to be cut, and non-citizen immigrants
don't vote.

But Americans are not hard-hearted enough to let elderly immigrants starve or
children live on the street. If federal benefits run out, and immigrants do not
have sponsors capable of supporting them, local governments and non-profit
agencies will wind up with an expensive problem.

The president pledged to try to reinstate benefits to needy immigrants when he
signed the welfare bill. In the meantime, he is pressing the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to speed up the process for immigrants who are waiting to
become citizens.

Officials in Santa Clara County are wisely following the president's lead.

There are 34,000 legal immigrants in the county receiving some kind of federal
assistance - food stamps, cash assistance or other benefits. When they lose
those benefits, and if they turn to the county's general assistance program
instead, it could cost the county $30 million to $50 million. County officials
don't like the thought of turning away immigrants who are disabled, elderly or
children. But they don't like the thought of cutting $30 million from some other
area of the budget, either.

Supervisor Jim Beall will propose today that the county help immigrants become
citizens. About 17,000 of the immigrants now on federal assistance here are
eligible to become citizens. Some have never applied for citizenship because
they fear immigration authorities or don't speak English well enough. Others are
simply unable to navigate the bureaucracy. Beall wants the county to spend
$140,000 to coordinate local citizenship efforts, to help people fill out forms
and gain the skills they need to pass the citizenship test.

This would be a wise investment, and not simply because citizens are eligible
for federal aid. Citizens also are eligible to vote, and giving more people a
voice in government will strengthen our community.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial: The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 16, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELFARE CRUNCH WHEN IMMIGRANT BENEFITS ARE SLASHED, WHO WILL PULL THE PLUG ON
LIFE SUPPORT?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 683 words


WHEN Congress passed its welfare reform bill and slashed benefits for
immigrants, it forgot to explain who would unhook the life support from two
elderly, disabled women in San Jose and many more like them across the country.

Consider Francisca Martinez-Baca, a legal immigrant. Dona Francisca is 85 years
old and lives with her retired daughter and son-in-law. She came from Nicaragua
31 years ago, worked for many years as a nanny, and was a quiet, church-going,
law-abiding resident for all that time. She's been bedridden for about eight
years from Alzheimer's, a stroke and diabetes. What keeps her alive is the
government aid that allows her family to care for her at home without
bankrupting the household.

Since Dona Francisca lives at home, she receives a $620 monthly check from the
Supplemental Security Income program for basic living expenses, and Medi-Cal for
her medical care. She could lose both. The federal welfare bill outlaws SSI for
legal immigrants who cannot prove long-term employment, which many cannot. A
former baby-sitter, Dona Francisca never collected the check stubs or documents
that would prove her case. State lawmakers decide by early next year whether she
may keep her Medi-Cal, but Sacramento's current anti-immigrant mood isn't
encouraging.

There are 14,000 to 15,000 immigrants in nursing homes whose sole support is
Medi-Cal. California cannot in conscience turn them out.

In addition, there are 200 or so illegal immigrants whose nursing home care is
in more immediate danger. Although illegal immigrants aren't eligible for most
public assistance, these elderly disabled people receive state aid under special
legislation passed eight years ago. They may lose it in the next 30 to 60 days
because the state failed to extend that legislation this year.

One of these persons is an undocumented Asian woman we cannot name. Too old and
sick to live with family members, she is in a small San Jose nursing home. No
one knows what will become of her. Any attempt to deport her, doctors say, would
likely kill her, and no airline would risk flying her to her homeland halfway
around the world.

Even Gov. Pete Wilson has come to the defense of these illegal immigrants. He
supported extending the special legislation - but in a cruel irony, state
attorneys blocked his plan. They feared it would undermine Proposition 187, the
1994 initiative that sought to stop many public benefits for the undocumented.
Wilson had given 187 its greatest political support.

In trying to help, Wilson is doing not only the right thing, but also the
popular thing. Surveys have shown that most pro-187 voters did not really want
to throw illegal-immigrant children out of school, even though the law provided
for that.

Surely few would favor kicking old folks out of nursing homes. Likewise, no
citizen would go into Dona Francisca's room, seeing her tethered to medical
tubes, and say cut off her benefits.

We don't think for a second that Americans had this in mind when they called for
welfare reform.

Our stories of elderly aid recipients are admittedly emotional examples of the
welfare bill's impact on immigrants. Yet these real people and others like them
deserve compassion and support.

A victim of stroke and Alzheimer's can't go out and get a job, the main argument
for welfare reform. Putting old folks out of nursing homes won't deter young
people from coming here to earn a living, as some say denying pre-natal care to
pregnant women may do.

Many shortcomings of welfare reform need to be confronted by Congress and the
state Legislature, but this problem of elderly care needs immediate attention.
There is talk of a special December session in Sacramento, which would provide
the opportunity to deal with Medi-Cal. SSI for people like Dona Francisca will
take congressional action, which the president needs to push, just as Wilson is
pushing a state solution for nursing home residents.

And if confronting these problems forces lawmakers to face up to incongruities
in their anti-immigrant philosophies, so much the better.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial: The opinion of the Mercury News

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Francisca Martinez-Baca's green card
[960916 ED 6B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 29, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELFARE REFORM HITS HOME

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6P

LENGTH: 939 words


AFTER months of headlines and speculation, federal welfare reform finally came
to the Bay Area last week. The first to feel it were legal immigrants who
applied for food stamps and were turned away at county welfare offices. Over the
next couple of years, many more Californians will feel the cold hand of welfare
reform, as work requirements and time limits force them off the welfare rolls.

Although the new law was passed nearly three months ago, local officials are
just beginning to understand how it will affect their communities. The federal
government has essentially handed off responsibility for the poor to the states
without providing enough money to do the job. State and local welfare officials,
who until now have been told to fill out forms and hand out checks, suddenly
must find a way to put the poor to work - or lose even more federal dollars.
Like students facing their first essay test after years of nothing but
multiple-choice, many are not ready for the challenge.

California has yet to make major decisions about how welfare benefits will be
distributed: Will counties be free to set up their own systems or will the state
call the shots? Will the state provide benefits for those cut off by the feds -
immigrants and the unemployable - or will counties be left with that problem?
These and other decisions will be made by the Legislature in the coming months.

In the meantime, officials in Santa Clara County are not wringing their hands
and waiting for the state to act. Instead, local officials have been designing
their own system, one that will focus on helping people become self-sufficient
instead of just helping them qualify for benefits.

The process began in February, when county officials decided to prepare for
welfare reform by getting ahead of it. Throughout the summer, while Congress and
the White House were hammering out a welfare bill, representatives from our
county and city governments, business, labor, non-profit agencies and welfare
recipients themselves were meeting in small groups. People who do job training,
provide health care, run grocery stores and care for children were working
together to design a system that will support parents to care for their
children, find employment and, most important, stay employed.

This process, called the Employment Support Initiative, has involved about 450
people. The participants we spoke to said they have been impressed by the
county's willingness to listen to their ideas and concerns. Last week, the Board
of Supervisors heard the vision proposed by the group. Among the ideas:

(check) A one-stop center where people in need could get job counseling, child
care, bus fare, whatever they need to get on their feet. Maybe they need clothes
for a job interview or a small loan to get the car fixed. Or help getting child
support from an ex-spouse. Today, applying for government assistance can be a
full-time job. By combining functions from various agencies and reducing the
number of forms that need to be filled out, the county can get people out of the
office and into real jobs.

(check) An emphasis on family support. The group recognized that many welfare
recipients are parents who live on the edge. A family crisis can keep them from
getting or holding a job. The system needs to offer family counseling or other
services that will get them through times of crisis.

(check) Incentives for employers who hire welfare recipients.

This last recommendation is the only one dealing with employers, a group that
still has not been brought fully into this new welfare vision. If we are going
to put people to work, someone has to hire them. And while local employers
desperately need highly skilled workers, most welfare recipients aren't ready
for those jobs.

So far, the major Silicon Valley companies have not had much involvement in the
Employment Support Initiative process. Joint Venture Silicon Valley had one
representative. The Santa Clara Valley Manufacturing Group appointed an observer
to watch the process, but did not take an active role. County officials say they
didn't include local CEOs because there was nothing to offer them yet. "We
didn't want them to think we were expecting them to do charity work," one group
member said.

Supervisor Jim Beall will be briefing the manufacturing group this week and
asking for their help. We would like to see the major employers get involved
with this project at this point, not so much to provide jobs to "charity cases,"
as to provide expertise about employment opportunities.

So far, all the process has created is a welfare wish list. The hard part of
designing the new system will come when the state crunches the numbers and the
county finds out just how much money it will have to provide the services that
are needed.

As state officials begin to decide how welfare reform will work in California,
they would do well to look to Santa Clara County as a model. That doesn't mean
they should take the system being designed here and replicate it across the
state. It means they should look at how our officials are addressing the needs
of this particular county - a diverse community with a concentration of
high-skill, high-tech jobs and sky-high housing costs. What works in Santa Clara
County won't necessarily work in Yolo or Riverside, but the people in those
counties know better than state bureaucrats what will work there.

The best thing the state could do for welfare reform is to get out of the way
and give local governments room to find their own ways to care for the needy and
help their own residents become self-sufficient.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
RELATED STORY: Page 6P

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: MATT DAVIES - GANNETT SUBURBAN NEWSPAPERS
[Washington Welfare cop breaks into a Welfare Mom's ramshackler home and says,
"OKAY, Party's Over]
[960929 ED 6P 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 5, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNORS SUPPORT LEGAL-IMMIGRANT AID

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 158 words


The nation's governors pledged Tuesday to work to help legal immigrants keep
welfare benefits, but they decided against asking Congress to restore food
stamps and disability aid for elderly and disabled immigrants. The policy
statement, adopted at the close of the four-day National Governors Association
meeting, came a day after three Southern California counties disclosed
bureaucratic maneuvers that will allow poor legal immigrants to continue
receiving food stamps for several months after new welfare rules take effect in
April.

Governors attending the bipartisan conference also voted to oppose President
Clinton's plan for a per-capita spending cap on Medicaid payments to the states.
California Gov. Pete Wilson has been especially vehement in condemning that
proposal. Democratic Gov. Bob Miller of Nevada, the conference chairman, said
that the chief executives are urging Clinton to give the states flexibility on
Medicaid.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 8, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP, PRESIDENT BATTLE OVER AID TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 281 words


Republicans said Monday that they were drafting legislation to provide as much
as $2 billion in aid to states with large numbers of legal immigrants who will
lose benefits under the new welfare law, but Clinton administration officials
said they strenuously opposed the plan because it would result in disparate
policies in different states. Instead, the officials said they wanted full
restoration of disability benefits for most legal immigrants, including children
and elderly people who have not become citizens.

Republicans in Congress want to provide states with lump sums of money, or block
grants, to help legal immigrants. House Republicans, led by Rep. E. Clay Shaw of
Florida, said they were considering a maximum of $2 billion in aid over the next
two or three years. By contrast, President Clinton would permanently restore
disability benefits and Medicaid for many legal immigrants, at a cost of $15
billion over six years. New York would receive about 15 percent of the money in
each case, while New Jersey would receive perhaps 3 percent.

California and New York immigrants recently filed lawsuits challenging the
denial of Supplemental Security Income benefits and food stamps to non-citizens.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, have
introduced bills that would restore SSI benefits for legal immigrants who were
in the United States on Aug. 22 and are elderly, disabled and poor. Campbell
said he strongly supported the 1996 welfare law but, he added, "no law is
perfect. There is one glaring problem to be corrected, dealing with those legal
immigrants who are too old and infirm to obtain their citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MAY 14, 1997 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

BENEFITS INTACT, IMMIGRANTS TOLD

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 559 words


Seeking to reassure elderly Asian immigrants over the future of their Social
Security benefits, John Callahan, acting commissioner of the Social Security
Administration, visited the Oakland Hong Fook Adult Day Care Center on Tuesday.

Through a Cantonese interpreter, he told a frail group of women that President
Clinton has pledged that SSI and Medicaid benefits will continue for many
non-citizens. Legal immigrants would be spared from losing their sole means of
support, which was to have ended in August 1997 under the Welfare Reform Act.

Last August, Congress enacted and Clinton signed a welfare reform law that would
have prohibited most legal immigrants from receiving food stamps and SSI. But
since then, Clinton with the support of key congressional leaders, has proposed
an amendment that would restore benefits to the elderly.

"The president said that this provision was wrong," Callahan said, referring to
Clinton's State of the Union address in February 1997. "You are not the
individuals who should be put at risk," Callahan told the seniors, many of whom
were in wheelchairs or walked with canes and walkers.

In March, Callahan was the target of a class-action lawsuit brought by a
coalition of civil rights lawyers charging that federal welfare reform violates
the constitutional rights of impoverished legal immigrants who are not
naturalized citizens.

No state is more deeply affected by the issue than California, home to 40
percent of all the nation's immigrants. There are 65,000 legal immigrants in the
Bay Area whose benefits would have been affected by the cuts.

Widespread abuse by legal immigrants of the federal Supplemental Security Income
program was the main reason Congress voted to eliminate benefits to non-citizens
last year. Critics say the federal SSI program, which gives an average monthly
check of $425 to people with minimal assets who are 65 and older, blind or
disabled, is commonly misused. Since SSI is supplemented by state payments, a
single person with no other income can receive an average check of $640 per
month. Elderly immigrants whose entry into the country was sponsored by their
children can continue to get SSI benefits if they claim they are financially
independent from their children. They can collect even when they live with them.

The welfare reform law would have affected 21,643 non-citizens in Santa Clara
County, 16,266 in Alameda County, 6,174 in San Mateo County, 1,631 in Santa Cruz
County and 19,668 in San Francisco County.

Clinton has asked the Republican-controlled Congress to restore about $14
billion in aid to legal residents. The funds would go to people who turned 65 or
became disabled after entering the United States legally. The administration has
also proposed restoring benefits to some 320,000 disabled non-citizens who were
living in the country on or before Aug. 22, 1996, when the welfare law was
enacted. The agreement also extends the period of eligibility from five years to
seven years for refugees and those seeking asylum, no matter when they entered
the United States.

Informed of the reprieve, many at Hong Fook Center were relieved. Nonetheless,
few were taking the chance of being left out again. "More than 60 percent of our
seniors are in the process of becoming citizens," said center Director Denise
Cheung.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 27, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT-SMUGGLING SUSPECT HELD IN TEXAS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 68 words


Alberto Cordero, 35, of Austin, Texas - accused of helping smuggle 40 illegal
immigrants in a suffocating cargo-trailer earlier this week - has been arrested,
and San Marcos, Texas, authorities are seeking two others suspects in the case.
Two in the trailer died of heat stroke. Murder warrants were issued against
Cordero, Alfonso Catalan Rodriguez, 56, of Laredo and Juan Carlos Calles, 36, of
Dallas.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 25, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RENO TARGETS BORDER CRIME 35 PROSECUTORS TO BE ADDED IN SOUTHWEST

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Attorney General Janet Reno announced Friday the addition of 35 federal
prosecutors throughout the Southwest to investigate crimes such as human
smuggling and drug trafficking along the U.S.-Mexico border.

In conjunction with a 27-month federal border beef-up, Reno said, the
prosecutors would continue "to turn around decades of neglect that plague the
INS and limits their ability to get the job done." But she could not provide
cost estimates for the hiring of the new prosecutors and 17 support staff
positions.

The states scheduled to receive most of the attorneys lie along the 1,950-mile
border. Nine of the new attorneys will serve in California; 12 will go to Texas;
six will be dispatched to New Mexico and four have been assigned to Arizona.

In addition, California will receive 230 more U.S. Border Patrol agents, Reno
said. She spoke to U.S. and Mexican journalists from inside the San Ysidro point
of entry, the busiest port in the country.

Since the peso devaluation of 1994, thousands of Mexicans have arrived in
Mexican border cities, hoping to cross into the United States. With an
increasingly vigilant U.S. program designed to stop them, human smugglers have
increased their prices from about $300 per person to nearly twice that.

Coyotes, as smugglers are called, often lead groups of migrants into the
outlying areas of border cities where the U.S. Border Patrol stations are not as
well staffed as their urban counterparts. Since Jan. 7, 14 migrants have died
from the cold in the mountains of rural eastern San Diego County.

Human rights officials say the U.S. Border Patrol has intentionally pushed
migrations eastward, endangering the lives of economic migrants. Officials
dispute that and have launched educational programs throughout Mexico to warn
potential crossers of the dangers of the trek.

A report Friday in the San Diego Union-Tribune showed that contrary to
predictions by federal officials, U.S. vigilance along the border does not seem
to have deterred migrants. Arrest statistics are higher now than they were
before Operation Gatekeeper was launched in October 1994, the newspaper
reported. While arrest statistics do not account for recidivism, Reno
acknowledged that measuring the success of border programs "is the most
difficult aspect."

At the bottom of a release handed out on Friday, INS officials also mentioned a
joint program with Customs officials to admit San Diego Padres baseball fans
from Mexico. This, the release said, enabled the federal government to be
"credited in part with last season's record Padres attendance."

While the Padres did set records for sellouts and large crowds, their overall
attendance was only second-best in club history. And the team's 91-71 record
probably had far more to do with the increase than the federal government's
program.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Reno
[970125 CA 3B 4]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 3, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DENSE ON IMMIGRATION GUTLESS DEMOCRATS LIKE DIANNE FEINSTEIN WANT IT BOTH WAYS

BYLINE: FRANK DEL OLMO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 804 words


REPUBLICANS like California Gov. Pete Wilson have gotten so much political
mileage out of the immigration issue that it's easy to overlook the fact that
many Democrats have done the very same thing. Granted, Democrats do their
immigrant-bashing less crudely than, say, Pat Buchanan. But the message gets
through anyway. Just ask California's senior U.S. senator, Dianne Feinstein.

Wilson was deservedly lambasted for using Proposition 187, the initiative aimed
at illegal immigrants, to revive his flagging gubernatorial campaign in 1994.
But how many remember that Feinstein also played the immigration card to win a
close election that same year?

At least one of her television commercials - which near as I can determine aired
only in the San Diego area, where immigration has long been a hot-button issue -
was as crude as anything Wilson did. It showed Feinstein in the foreground,
bemoaning the evils of illegal immigration, while people were seen clambering
over a high fence in the darkened background. It looked like the former San
Francisco mayor was running for immigration commissioner rather than senator.

And it's worth remembering that her very tight race against Michael Huffington
(who did his share of immigrant bashing, too) wasn't decided until the closing
days of the campaign, when it was revealed that Huffington, like Wilson, had
once employed an illegal immigrant. All this background is by way of pointing
out some poetic justice in the distinctly uncomfortable position Feinstein may
find herself in as Congress completes its latest effort to fix the nation's
immigration laws.

This month, a House-Senate conference committee is scheduled to meet to
reconcile the two versions of a 1996 immigration bill. The effort could bog down
on any of several issues, but the most controversial is the Gallegly amendment,
named for Rep. Elton Gallegly, a California Republican. Dubbed "Son of 187" by
critics, it would allow states to bar the children of illegal immigrants from
public schools - the very provision of Proposition 187 that has kept it bogged
down in the courts ever since it was approved by California voters.

The Gallegly amendment is opposed not just by education lobbyists but by most of
the major police organizations as well. Groups like the Fraternal Order of
Police are certainly not soft on illegal immigration. They just see no good
coming from children being tossed out of schools and onto the streets. And White
House spokesmen have warned that President Clinton may veto any immigration bill
that includes the Gallegly amendment.

In response, some of Bob Dole's advisors are urging him to use immigration just
like Wilson did in 1994, as a "wedge" issue to divide a California electorate
leaning (according to most polls) toward Clinton but still concerned about
illegal immigration. That is why the presumptive GOP presidential nominee
endorsed the Gallegly amendment on a campaign swing through California, and why
the Republican Party has begun airing TV commercials here blasting Clinton for
being soft on illegal immigration.

Now the question is, what will congressional Republicans do with the Gallegly
amendment? Moderates like Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., want to dump it so they can
compromise with Democrats on an immigration bill that Clinton can sign. That way
everyone can campaign this fall claiming they did something about illegal
immigration. But GOP hard-liners are pushing to keep the Gallegly amendment,
arguing that a Clinton veto would hand Dole a perfect issue to batter the
president with in vote-rich California.

Democrats are acutely aware of the political danger. To keep Clinton from being
maneuvered into such an untenable position, Senate Democrats are trying to
organize a filibuster of any immigration bill that includes the Gallegly
amendment. Two weeks ago, 42 Democratic senators, including Feinstein, signed a
letter to the Senate leadership outlining their intent. That is just two votes
above the minimum needed to maintain a filibuster under Senate rules. And guess
who among those Democrats is considered a weak link in this defensive plan.

"Feinstein can be very dense on the immigration issue," one worried Capitol Hill
insider told me. "She doesn't want to be be blamed for killing the immigration
bill" if a filibuster succeeds.

That is probably because Feinstein is thinking about returning to California to
run for governor in 1998, when Wilson's second term ends.

Like many of her fellow Democrats, including Clinton, Feinstein no doubt wishes
the immigration issue would just go away. But it won't - at least not so long as
gutless Democrats shy away from discussing immigration issues in all their
daunting complexity and instead merely ape the shamelessly expedient stance of
Republicans like Wilson.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Frank del Olmo is assistant to the editor of the Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: CATHERINE KANNER - LOS ANGELES TIMES
[960703 ED 7B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 5, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEMONSTRATORS CLASH L.A. GATHERINGS HEAT UP 300 TURN OUT ON BOTH SIDES OF PROP.
187

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Rival Independence Day demonstrations on illegal immigration erupted violently
Thursday when protesters beat one another with fists, picket signs and filled
soda cans in front of the federal building near the UCLA campus.

"It was a combination of factors (leading to the fight) - the heat, the strong
feelings on both sides of the Proposition 187 issue," Los Angeles police Lt.
Anthony Alba said. "Once we got a sufficient number of officers here, we were
able to respond to the situation."

About 150 police officers wearing helmets and wielding batons separated the
groups - representing both sides of the volatile debate over Proposition 187 -
and the demonstrations were allowed to continue. Protesters shouted at one
another, but no more fights broke out.

About 300 people turned out at the federal building for a demonstration
supporting illegal immigration curbs and a counter-demonstration by immigrant
rights activists.

At least six injured

They clashed about 9:30 a.m., and at least six people were injured, fire
department spokesman Jim Wells said.

One person was hospitalized at UCLA Medical Center. The nature of the injuries
was not immediately known, Alba said.

Police pushed the demonstrators to different sides of Wilshire Boulevard and
told them they could continue for about another hour. No arrests were made, Alba
said.

The California Highway Patrol closed off the San Diego Freeway on-ramps and
off-ramps in the area, and police blocked off busy Wilshire Boulevard in front
of the federal building.

One of the demonstrators, Bob Schwartz, was left with a gash on his head and a
shirt soaked in blood.

"I was holding my flag. These people came across the street. I wasn't doing
anything. I was just holding my flag," Schwartz said. "All at once, one of them
grabbed my flag and hit me over the head."

Authorities called in

Federal police called the Los Angeles police for help when the fights began to
break out at the intersection by the federal building, Alba said. Officers from
the Los Angeles police, California Highway Patrol and UCLA campus police
responded to separate the two groups.

"Everything looked OK until I got to the corner and people started swinging
signs at each other," said one witness, a 50-year-old man who did not wish to be
identified. "I saw one sign break and pieces go flying in the air."

The demonstrators represented both sides of the debate over California's
Proposition 187. The measure, approved by voters in 1994, called for prohibiting
illegal immigrants from receiving public education, non-emergency health care
and social welfare services.

The initiative has not been implemented because of court challenges.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
An anti-illegal-immigration protester flees as a sign-wielding immigration
rights supporter throws punches outside a Los Angeles federal building.
[960705 CA 3B 1]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Below, Bob Schwartz, who supports Proposition 187, talks with the media after
being bashed in the melee.
[960705 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 6, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 BRAWL STIRS UP DEBATE WHO'S TO BLAME?: BOTH SIDES POINT FINGERS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The leader of a national Hispanic citizens group Friday accused Gov. Pete Wilson
of fomenting hatred that sparked street violence over illegal immigration, an
allegation the governor's spokesman called "outrageous."

The president of the League of United Latin American Citizens, in Boston to
address the group's national convention, blamed Wilson and political
conservatives for creating a volatile atmosphere that could erupt into violence
like a street brawl between activists that broke out Thursday in Los Angeles.
Six people were injured and one was hospitalized.

"Anytime a government official uses his position to promote racism and
discrimination against one group of people simply because it is politically
expedient, then that official must take the responsibility for the forces of
divisiveness and hatred that he has unleashed," LULAC President Belen Robles
said in a news release.

In a speech, Robles set blame for the violence on a small group of leftist
extremists, but in published remarks she laid the blame for a "powder keg"
atmosphere at Wilson's feet.

Wilson's spokesman, Sean Walsh, called Robles' accusation "absolutely and
utterly outrageous."

"To say such irresponsible, frenzied, comments . . . this individual has
essentially called 60 percent of the state of California racist for caring about
the billions and billions of dollars in services the state provides to illegal
immigrants," he said.

Wilson believed communist agitators were to blame for Thursday's violence, Walsh
said.

One activist Friday called the immigration conflict a rebirth of the 19th
century war between the United States and Mexico.

While most of Southern California marked the holiday with sand and surf, parades
and parties, advocates on both sides of Proposition 187 clashed during an
Independence Day demonstration that turned into a bloody brawl.

Proposition 187, approved by voters in 1994, called for prohibiting illegal
immigrants from receiving public education, non-emergency health care and social
welfare services.

The initiative has not been implemented because of court challenges.

About 150 police officers with helmets and batons separated demonstrators in
Westwood who beat each other with picket signs, full soda cans and their bare
hands.

Police attributed the flare-up of violence to heat and heated emotions, but
activists on opposing sides of the immigration argument say conflict is
inevitable.

Glenn Spencer, leader of the Voice of Citizens Together, said the groups that
oppose Proposition 187 are essentially at war with the United States.

"Their real intent is the reconquest of the United States," Spencer said in a
telephone interview. "This is the Mexican-American war revisited."

A spokeswoman for the Progressive Labor Party called Spencer's group a racist,
anti-immigrant "fascist" organization.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 12, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRISON REPORT TELLS HOW IMMIGRANT RIOT BEGAN

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Eleven illegal immigrants jailed at a Navy brig tried to burn it down because of
poor living conditions and television reception at the facility, according to an
indictment released Thursday.

The indictment details for the first time how the inmates met with prison
officials in an effort to improve conditions. Unhappy with new cable service and
hot water pots, they resorted to violence, officials said.

"The individuals . . . demonstrated total disregard for the lives and the safety
of their fellow inmates, security personnel and government property," said Bob
Walsh, FBI agent in charge of San Diego.

The March 29 disturbance at Miramar Naval Air Station in San Diego injured 24
immigrants, caused $500,000 in damage and $1.5 million in medical costs.
Officials have not decided whether to reopen it to immigrants.

The 11 indicted inmates, who are being held in federal jails throughout Southern
California, each face counts of conspiracy and damaging federal property. If
convicted, they could each receive up to 15 years in prison.

Months before the brig opened, local politicians and neighbors expressed safety
concerns about the Clinton administration's plan to ease overcrowding at other
federal lockups by housing immigrant felons at the brig.

The inmates were non-violent offenders such as car thieves and drug traffickers
who were caught re-entering the United States after deportation, officials said.
The overcrowding was the result of improved Border Patrol identification
systems.

Sixteen days before the fire, the first inmates were moved into the Navy
facility. Two days later, they staged a protest for T-shirts, a canteen and hot
water pots as well as improved cable and telephone service. They got the cable
service and the pots.

On March 29, the 11 inmates indicted Thursday told others not to report for
lunch, officials said. The disturbance started near noon, and most of the 141
inmates in the affected areas ignored orders to return to their cells.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JULY 17, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BABBITT TOURS AREA BURNED BY MIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Following in the footsteps of illegal immigrants, U.S. Interior Secretary Bruce
Babbitt on Tuesday hiked Otay Mountain, a federally protected area repeatedly
set on fire by migrants crossing into the United States.

The federal official didn't walk the entire route, which can take up to four
days, but he said Tuesday he had gained a new appreciation for the plight of
firefighters who work on the rugged, 5,766-foot peak.

"I've never seen rougher terrain," a tired-looking Babbitt told reporters after
his two-hour tour and trek. "The evidence of the fire hazard is all over that
mountain."

So far this year, firefighters have battled 270 fires on Otay Mountain, compared
with about 60 last year and about 20 in 1994, according to the California
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. Most of the blazes have been blamed
on the campfires of illegal immigrants.

Funds for firebreaks

Along with $250,000 in additional funding, Babbitt promised to cut red tape for
new roads and firebreaks. Also Tuesday, Gov. Pete Wilson approved a $1.2 million
increase in the state's firefighting budget to combat blazes in the eastern San
Diego area.

The problems in that area stem from the Clinton administration's "Operation
Gatekeeper," which fortified the urban border in San Diego. Like a squeezed
balloon, migrant traffic shifted east.

But Otay Mountain hasn't deterred the estimated 2,000 border crossers each day
who attempt to cross, and local authorities must rescue migrants who injure
themselves or fall ill during the trek.

Otay fires pose little threat to property, but officials fear that migrants
sleeping in the seven-foot-high chaparral might not be able to escape.

Threat to humans

"We hope to be able to catch the fires when they're smaller and keep the threat
to human life down," said Chief Glen Newman of the state Forestry Department.

The mountain is controlled by the federal Bureau of Land Management, which
designated it a wildlife study area. State firefighters are responsible for most
of the area.

In addition to saving humans from the wildfires, officials are also worried
about the mountain's rare plant life, such as the Tecate cypress.

"It looks to me like a pretty resilient tree," Babbitt said. "In fact, the
Tecate cypress co-evolved with fire and its seeds will not germinate until they
are triggered by fire.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt talks about Otay Mountain fires.
[960717 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 19, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL CONFIRMS IT RELEASES DRUNKEN SUSPECTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The U.S. Border Patrol releases alleged illegal immigrants if they are drunk, a
spokesman for the agency said.

"If they are inebriated to where they can't focus or make a clear thought - if
we can't determine alienage - then we release them," said spokesman Ron Henley.

The unwritten policy came to light Sunday when Ramona sheriff's deputies dropped
off an alleged illegal immigrant at a Border Patrol checkpoint in Temecula, and
Border Patrol agents released him because he was drunk.

Border Patrol agents rely on interviews to determine whether a person is in the
country legally. The alleged illegal immigrants have to answer questions about
themselves, their parents, their country of origin and how they came to the
United States.

If they're too drunk or high to be interviewed, they are released.

Republican lawmaker Ron Packard of Oceanside said the policy is ineffective.

"It's a policy that almost encourages them to show up drunk," Packard said
Wednesday from his office on Capitol Hill. "It's a bad policy on its face."

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris Meissner, said agents need to have better communication with
the migrants.

"If we had a deaf-mute, we'd have to treat him the same way," Strassberger said.
"The bottom line is we have to determine the alienage. We can't make the
assumption of whether they're here legally or illegally. If we must err, let's
err on the side of an individual's rights."

Republican Brian Bilbray, whose district stretches from La Jolla to the
U.S.-Mexican border, said: "Where does it stop? Can you imagine if we applied
this (policy) to the rest of the criminal justice system? A burglar let go
because he was drunk when arrested? Or a murderer released because he was on
heroin when caught?"

The U.S. Border Patrol recently has come under criticism from federal and state
officials.

Earlier this week union leaders testified before a state subcommittee on
allegations that agents drop off injured migrants at local hospitals so the
federal government doesn't have to pay for their care.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 25, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EXPERIMENT IN IDENTIFYING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CRIMINALS IS PROMISING THE INS
BACKS OFF A GOOD IDEA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 453 words


THE Immigration and Naturalization Service is still looking for the best way to
catch and deport illegal immigrants once they get past the border. Raiding
factories, restaurants and farms has never worked well, and those methods
promote discrimination against Latino citizens and legal immigrants. Today's
favored strategy, chasing border-crossers on the freeways, is a deadly and
fruitless use of INS resources.

No one's ever called the INS a creative federal agency, but it actually has been
experimenting with a sensible approach to rounding up undocumented people.
Unfortunately, an agency report suggests that it now wants to back off its own
good idea.

For several months now, the INS has stationed agents at the Anaheim jail, where
they can identify illegal immigrants who are alleged criminals. The suspects
aren't deported immediately; that depends on the severity of the crime and
results of trial and sentencing. But the early work gets the INS right on the
tail of criminals who do not have papers.

This is one experiment that justifies the expense. No one wants to pay for
jailing illegal immigrants guilty of misdemeanor crimes. And no one, including
hard-working and honest undocumented immigrants, wants to see the bad apples
return to their neighborhoods. If they're found guilty, deport them into the
hands of authorities in their homelands.

It doesn't serve justice or public safety to deport undocumented immigrants who
are found guilty of violent crimes like murder or rape, since there are no
guarantees they'd be locked up back home, and they could well cross the border
again. They stay in U.S. jails. But the others can be sent back.

Stationing immigration agents even part-time in local jails figures to be an
intelligent use of the agency's stretched budget. It's cheaper and more
effective than hunting down undocumented janitors or turning employers into
reluctant immigration cops. It's safer and saner than chasing illegal immigrants
in trucks as they make their way inland to become someone's maid or dishwasher.

The Anaheim experiment is so promising and successful that the city council
there is willing to help fund the effort. No one knows for sure how many illegal
immigrants get booked in Anaheim, but the INS's own report suggests it could be
as high as one-quarter of all people arrested. In light of that, the INS now
seems too willing to give up on a worthwhile experiment in favor of business as
usual.

Costs, and resources, are always a problem with the INS. Maybe it can't do
everything it has been doing and add the jail staffing. But we'd rather see the
agency abandon its futile inland checkpoints and use the money to deport
criminal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial: The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JULY 31, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL-STUDENT STANCE SOFTENED BY REPUBLICANS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 133 words


Eager to pass an illegal-immigration bill before next month's convention in San
Diego, Republicans in the House and Senate forged a fragile compromise Tuesday
aimed at softening a proposal to oust illegal immigrant children from public
schools.

Instead of allowing states to expel all illegal immigrant children, the proposal
would allow students now in elementary school to finish the sixth grade. Then
they could stay in school only by paying tuition equal to the cost of educating
a pupil in that state.

Illegal students already in the seventh or higher grade when the law is passed
would be permitted to complete high school. Illegal immigrant students who
changed school districts or attempted to enroll for the first time after the law
took effect would be required to pay tuition.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 1, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHP WANTS MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES FOR SUSPECTED DRIVER IN FATAL ACCIDENT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: TEMECULA


A man suspected of driving a stolen truck full of illegal immigrants should be
charged with manslaughter in a crash that killed eight and injured 17, the
California Highway Patrol said.

The CHP asked the Riverside County District Attorney's Office to file charges
against Fernando Covarrubias Varela after an investigation that determined
Border Patrol agents acted properly in the incident.

"They (the agents) were following the policy directly," CHP spokesman Tim
Santillan said Tuesday.

Border Patrol agents are barred from high-speed chases and must break off a
pursuit if the vehicle they are following is driven erratically or dangerously.

They followed the overloaded pickup truck from Fallbrook in San Diego County on
April 6 but lost sight of it over a hill in Temecula, 70 miles north of the
U.S.-Mexico border. Moments later, the CHP said, the driver made a sharp turn at
70 mph and the truck overturned.

The CHP asked the district attorney's office to charge Covarrubias with vehicle
theft, possession of stolen property and eight counts of manslaughter, Santillan
said.

A decision is expected in about a week, said Supervising Deputy District
Attorney Creg Datig.

Covarrubias, a 21-year-old Mexican citizen, is jailed in Los Angeles as he
awaits trial on federal charges of immigrant smuggling. His federal public
defenders deny he was at the wheel of the stolen 1989 GMC pickup.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 2, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ADELA DE LA TORRE TRUE COST OF EDUCATING IMMIGRANT CHILDREN ISN'T WHAT IT SEEMS

BYLINE: ADELA DE LA TORRE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 622 words


THE DEBATE over providing public education to children of undocumented
immigrants centers on the "$2 billion subsidy" borne by California taxpayers.
Those who quote this expense assume that it is the true cost of educating these
children and will be the net savings to the public education system from barring
illegal immigrants. As an economist, my curiosity is piqued by the underlying
assumptions used to construct this number.

The basis for the $2 billion estimate comes from projections by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the Census Bureau. Using these data, a common
estimate for the number of undocumented children enrolled in California public
schools is about 300,000. This number is then multiplied by the per pupil
average costs, which for large urban school districts have ranged between $6,000
and $7,000 a year.

The problem with this estimate, however, is not the number of undocumented
children enrolled in public schools, but the use of average cost data rather
than marginal cost data - that is, the additional costs of educating the
undocumented students. This is a major methodological flaw. Average costs
include fixed costs such as buildings, debt payment on bonds and in some
instances, multiyear negotiated contracts for salaried employees and variable
costs such as classroom materials and supplies.

In the case of K-12 education, there is a considerable amount of fixed cost
hidden in the average cost estimate and a limited amount of variable cost.
Therefore, eliminating access to K-12 education to undocumented students will
not result in a $2 billion cost savings. The fixed costs of these school
districts will remain. So the closings and teacher layoffs required to save this
amount of money will not happen, because these fixed costs are required to meet
the needs of the remaining students.

So what does this supposed $2 billion savings really mean? We can at best use it
as a political red flag and hope that the federal government responds by
providing us with more resources. As for the incremental impact of immigrant
students, researchers have begun to sort out some of the additional costs to
targeted programs like bilingual education.

A preliminary study under way by the Urban Institute suggests that the
incremental cost to the core curriculum for bilingual education may be only
$1,000 per pupil. Using this approach would drastically reduce our cost estimate
from $2 billion to $300 million or less.

With meaningful marginal cost estimates, we could then shift the cost burden to
the real culprits involved in the undocumented migration flow: employers. Rather
than making educational access the issue in immigration control, we could use
the marginal cost estimates to develop targeted taxes to employers who hire
undocumented workers. This incremental tax would be based on the number of
projected undocumented employees. The tax would be applied across the board in
an industry such as farming or garment manufacture, with individual employers
granted exemptions if they can certify the status of their employees. The new
tax would go to the local school district.

The beauty of using the tax system instead of the educational system as one
mechanism for controlling immigration is that it targets where the hidden
subsidy is and transfers that subsidy to where the real cost is borne. It
reduces the cost for enforcement of immigration law from the government to the
private sector.

In sum, this is not only a better strategy for controlling the flow of
undocumented immigrants, but also a way to shift the responsibility squarely
where it belongs: on employers who choose to hire undocumented employees.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Hopes * Fears * Flames * Cartoons * Letters
Adela De la Torre is director of the Mexican American Studies and Research
Center at the University of Arizona. She wrote this for the Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: ELEANOR MILL
[960802 ED 7B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 7, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONVENTION PUTS SPOTLIGHT ON IMMIGRATION PROTESTS: DUELING GROUPS FOCUS ON GOP
EVENT TO OFFER VARYING VIEWS ON BORDER ISSUES.

BYLINE: MARGARITA CONTIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 633 words


With tours of the border, mass rallies and other forms of political
evangelizing, opponents of illegal or legal immigration plan to use next week's
Republican National Convention to argue that immigration is draining U.S. jobs,
welfare funding and educational resources. Meanwhile, immigrants' rights groups
and Latino organizations will counter with their own boycotts, marches and
demonstrations.

The Republican and Democratic parties attract a varied assortment of protesters
to their conventions every four years, but the GOP convention in San Diego has
become a special magnet for people with strong beliefs about immigration.
Coupled with the media attention that will be focused on San Diego, the
convention will shine a national floodlight on the border.

Although convention officials were reluctant to discuss immigration openly
before the Aug. 12-15 gathering, the party platform writers have included a
provision to deny citizenship to the U.S.-born children of undocumented
immigrants, which would require amending the Constitution. Also, the commercials
their party is airing nationally carry a strong message. In one, the Republican
National Committee charges that President Clinton has allowed 5 million
undocumented immigrants to remain in the United States. It urges viewers to
"tell the president to stop giving benefits to illegal aliens."

Timed protests

To avoid confrontations like the one that erupted between dueling immigration
rallies in Los Angeles on July 4 - resulting in a melee that left six people
injured and one hospitalized - the San Diego Police Department has required all
demonstrators to apply for a protest permit. Police have assigned protesters
separate 55-minute time slots to demonstrate in a parking lot across from the
convention center.

The anti-immigrant group Voices of Citizens Together has applied for a slot and
is organizing another rally outside the Los Angeles Federal Building.

"We have to close the border and return all illegal persons to their homes,"
group Director Glenn Spencer said. "All we are saying is that we want to defend
the United States."

Eyes Across the Border plans to encourage convention delegates and reporters to
visit the border. Co-founder Muriel Watson of San Diego said the goal is to get
delegates to "understand why the fence is there, why the lights are there and
the difficulty of maintaining a border near such a major city."

A variety of counter-demonstrations will balance the din. The American Friends
Service Committee is staging a binational, two-day boycott of San Diego
businesses.

The other viewpoint

"It's a part of our continuing protest against scapegoating and
immigrant-bashing," said Roberto Martinez, director of the committee's border
project. "We want people to recognize the enormous economic and cultural
contributions of immigrants in this country."

Adrian Mendoza, a photographer from Modesto, is urging Latinos to skip work and
spend no money on the first day of the convention, although he is warning people
to stay away from San Diego to avoid violence.

But San Diego-based groups are capitalizing on their location. The Chicano
Federation of San Diego County plans a convention demonstration and a Tuesday
"Latino Unity Summit."

Some groups have no intention of complying with the wishes of police. The
National Chicano Moratorium Committee already has plans to march through San
Diego to the convention center Monday.

"We believe we have freedom of speech and freedom to congregate where we want,"
said San Diego representative Hector Rios. "We don't believe we have to go on
bended knee to ask them for permission to march. We're out there to raise the
consciousness of the people and they're trying to put us off in one corner where
no one can see us."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 8, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AUTHORITIES TO STOP CARS IN THEIR TRACKS TESTING STARTS NEXT MONTH ON 'HOT
PURSUITS'

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 218 words

DATELINE: CHULA VISTA


A stolen van packed with illegal immigrants speeds down a busy interstate
highway, but police don't push the pedal to the metal or even think about a
high-speed pursuit.

Instead, they push a button.

Using technology they will begin testing next month, officers will be able to
stop a car in its tracks by sending an electrical charge that disables a
vehicle's electronics and shuts off its engine.

The "car stopper" was announced Wednesday as part of a two-front effort
employing technology first developed during the Cold War against criminals who
try to elude capture by speeding away from authorities.

Since April, 12 illegal immigrants have been killed and 38 injured when the
vehicles in which they were riding sped away from authorities in Riverside and
San Diego counties.

"As we move toward the 21st century, it is important that we do away with such
anachronisms as the high-speed police chase," said U.S. Attorney Alan Bersin.

Also Wednesday, local and federal authorities announced they will be able to
communicate and coordinate with each other using a common dispatch program
linking separate radio systems.

The wireless network is being tested by the California Highway Patrol, the U.S.
Border Patrol, the San Diego and Chula Vista police departments and other
agencies.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 27, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ORDER WILL CUT WELFARE TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WILSON IS SEEKING PROP. 187
SHORTCUT

BYLINE: RICH HARRIS, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Pete Wilson on Monday was preparing an executive order barring illegal
immigrants from many welfare programs - using the federal welfare reform bill to
break ground that Proposition 187 tried, but has so far been unable, to reach.

"This will achieve many of the objectives attempted with Proposition 187, and in
fact, in some areas, goes even further than 187," Wilson spokesman Sean Walsh
said.

Few details of the executive order were immediately available, but a Department
of Health and Welfare spokeswoman said there are about two dozen programs to
which illegal immigrants currently have access.

Among the programs that could be affected, according to Health and Welfare
spokeswoman Lisa Kalustian: prenatal care, state assistance to families that
adopt handicapped or developmentally disabled children, child-abuse prevention,
and supplemental disaster relief.

Until Wilson releases the executive order today, the exact impact on programs
cannot be determined, Kalustian said. Nor can welfare officials estimate how
much money might be saved through the cuts, or how many people may be affected.

"If citizenship is not a requirement for some of these programs, then we don't
track it," Kalustian said.

Federal bill's limits

The new federal bill excludes illegal immigrants from most federal
"means-tested" programs and prohibits them from receiving state or county grants
unless states pass new laws to permit the payments.

New illegal immigrants can also be barred from Medicaid, except in cases of
emergencies or communicable diseases, under terms of the bill.

Among other programs that could be affected, the prenatal care program may be
one of the most popular. The program pays for doctor visits and any tests or
procedures that a doctor believes are necessary to ensure the health of a mother
and her unborn child.

Making illegal immigrants ineligible for the program would be "tragic" and could
lead to a "meltdown of the health care safety net," said Lucy Quacinella, a
staff attorney with the Western Center on Law & Poverty.

Many of the state programs that could be affected are small or supplement other
efforts. The adoption assistance program, for example, provides regular grants
to families to help pay for the costs of special-needs adoptees. The
supplemental disaster relief program is intended to bridge some of the gaps left
by federal disaster programs.

Advocates for the poor were bracing for the order. But Clare Pastore, another
staff attorney with the Los Angeles-based Western Center on Law & Poverty, said
ending welfare for illegal immigrants was not necessarily a slam-dunk.

"The federal welfare reform law says no state can spend its own money on
undocumented and other unqualified immigrants unless it passes a law to do so,"
Pastore said. "That raises significant states' rights issues: Congress is
telling the states not only what they can do but how to do it.

"There are significant constitutional questions about Congress' ability to do
that."

Reductions face delay

Moreover, at least in California, the court challenges that have delayed the
implementation of Proposition 187 also could delay any reduction in services to
illegal immigrants.

Proposition 187, approved by voters in 1994, would prohibit illegal immigrants
from receiving public education, non-emergency health care and social welfare
services. The measure has been held up in the courts, and opponents have
obtained court orders forcing the state to adhere to earlier laws granting such
services to illegal immigrants.

Wilson can issue an executive order but cannot overturn state statutes by fiat,
Pastore said. Nor, she said, can Congress invalidate those laws.

Any effort to circumvent the court orders would likely result in a legal
challenge, she said.

Contacted at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, California
Democratic Party Chairman Art Torres, a former state senator and advocate of
minority rights, said it did not appear the order would accomplish much.

"Any benefit to illegal immigrants is illegal already," Torres said. "What he
ought to be doing is putting money into enforcement."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                AUGUST 28, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON MOVES TO DENY SERVICES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO LOSE SOME BENEFITS

BYLINE: HALLYE JORDAN, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Pete Wilson took the first step Tuesday toward cutting off welfare benefits
for illegal immigrants, saying changes in the state's 60-year-old welfare
program will no longer "reward those who break the law by entering the country
illegally."

While Wilson said he was following the guidelines of the overhaul in federal
welfare, opponents said the move will hurt children and end up costing the state
more in the long run.

"Immigrant children are the political football this presidential season," said
Mark Rosenbaum of the American Civil Liberties Union.

The governor's executive order instructs state agencies, universities and
colleges to put in place - as quickly as legally possible - the revisions in
federal welfare law signed by President Clinton last week. The revised federal
program calls for cutting off non-emergency aid to illegal immigrants, including
prenatal care, public housing and higher education. Kindergarten through
12th-grade schools, emergency medical care and prisons are not included.

It could be months before some, if any, agencies begin taking illegal immigrants
off public assistance.

"The public should not panic about this," said Lucy Quacinella, an attorney with
the Western Center on Law and Poverty in Sacramento. "The changes are clearly
planned, but these changes cannot happen overnight."

In addition, opponents of the measure have promised to tie it up in court.

Despite the expected delays, immigration reform activists lauded the action as a
step toward enacting Proposition 187 - the 1994 voter initiative banning public
education, non-emergency health care and social welfare services to illegal
immigrants. The measure has been contested in court and has not been
implemented.

"We are busy dancing in the street," said Ron Prince, head of the Save our State
committee, which sponsored the initiative. "This helps us effectively implement
the welfare provisions of Proposition 187 in California - at long last."

Order 'goes to the core'

Ira Mehlman, California media director for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, said the governor's order goes beyond the initiative.

"It goes to the core of what is drawing illegal aliens to this country: jobs and
benefits," Mehlman said. "'The magnet of jobs is the No. 1 attraction, and it
needs to be addressed. But even so, what kind of message do we send when we say,
'we don't want you here,' we make a half-hearted attempt to keep you out, but if
you come in illegally, we reward you by giving you all of these benefits?"

State officials were at a loss to say how many people would be affected, or what
the total savings would be. They were also unclear on how long it would take
state agencies to figure out how to end the assistance programs, and what kind
of legal notification the state is required to give to illegal immigrants.

Prenatal care at issue

The Wilson administration did say the state will save at least $69 million by
cutting off prenatal care to women in the country illegally. The state Health
and Welfare Agency says more than 70,000 women in the state illegally use that
program each year.

Critics say the governor's action would result in more costly health conditions
for the children of those women, who are citizens by virtue of being born on
U.S. soil.

"This is good news for the medical community because the increase in birth
defects is going to be a shot in the arm for physicians," Mark Silverman, an
attorney with the Immigrant Legal Services Center in San Francisco, said
sarcastically. "The tragedy is it's going to be human and fiscal tragedy for the
people of California."

Proponents of providing prenatal care to illegal immigrants claim that for every
$1 spent on prenatal care, the state saves $3 in follow-up health care.

"This would be penny wise, maybe, but extremely pound foolish to cut this
program off," said Quacinella. "It costs very little to give a woman prenatal
care during her pregnancy, but it can cost thousands of dollars a day if you
have to have an infant in the intensive care unit in a hospital. It just doesn't
make sense."

The California Legislature has a tradition of providing prenatal care to illegal
immigrants - although it's an annual battle to fund the program.

The Wilson administration believes the revised federal law requires a state to
reapprove pre-natal funding in order to continue to provide the benefits, but
welfare activists believe the state already has spoken on the subject, and the
federal government can't require the state to take another vote.

The revised federal law says states may provide illegal immigrants state or
local benefits "only through the enactment of a state law" passed after the
federal welfare law goes into effect.

But opponents of the law argue any provision in which the federal government
tells a state how to spend its own money is a violation of states rights under
the 10th Amendment.

"Certainly, any move the state makes to attempt to try and shut down these
programs will be met with an appropriate response," Quacinella vowed.

Lisa Kalustian, a representative of the state Health and Welfare Agency, said
the federal law specifically exempts Medi-Cal emergency medical assistance and
immunization, testing and treatment for communicable health diseases.

"Obviously, we knew services to illegals were covered under the federal bill so
we knew that would be part of the mix," Kalustian said. "But until we got the
federal welfare law and got to look at it, we couldn't do much. You've got to
start somewhere."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story on page 16A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Gov. Wilson announces his executive order Tuesday in Sacramento.
[960828 FR 1A 5; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                AUGUST 28, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHAT THE EXECUTIVE ORDER MEANS TO UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 407 words


Q Whom does the executive order affect?

A Undocumented immigrants who receive any type of state or local government aid.
People who will eventually lose services under this order, unless it is
overturned or suspended by a court, include 70,000 undocumented women who now
receive prenatal health care.

It is not yet clear how state and local agencies will determine an individual's
citizenship. Nor is it clear whether undocumented families will receive such
services as counseling on domestic violence, or whether a small group of
undocumented children without families will continue to be placed in foster
homes locally.

It's also unclear how long it will take for state and local agencies to
determine which services will be ended.

Q If I walk into a public clinic today, will I get health services?

A Yes, for now, in the eight public clinics associated with the Community Health
Partnership, and Valley Medical Center hospital and clinics.

Whether individual clinics continue to extend services to undocumented
immigrants will depend on the governing boards of each clinic.

Women getting prenatal health care probably will continue to get services until
the Department of Health Services advises clinics when they must cut off
services, which could take 30 to 60 days.

Q If I am an undocumented immigrant and need emergency care, can I go to an
emergency room?

A Yes. Emergency care is still allowed for undocumented immigrants.

Q If I am an undocumented immigrant, can I get a driver's license?

A No. Since 1994, the state has required that all drivers present a birth
certificate and, if foreign born, proof that they are in the country legally.

Q If I am an undocumented immigrant in long-term health care, such as a nursing
home, what will happen to me?

A You will not be thrown out of your long-term health care program immediately,
if ever. The state and federal government will be looking for other sources,
from charities to the government of the country where you are a citizen, to pay
for your care there or at another facility.

Q If I am an undocumented immigrant in public housing, will I be thrown out?

A Only legal residents can legally live in public housing, according to Julie
Stewart of the Business, Transportation and Housing Agency.

The department has not yet decided, however, whether other temporary housing,
such as for migrant laborers, will be barred to undocumented immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story on page 1A

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 3, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHAT GOOD CAN COME FROM CUTTING PRENATAL CARE TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 362 words


ON Aug. 2, 1991, Gov. Pete Wilson toured an intensive-care unit for prematurely
born infants. During the day he hailed a new medical program for poor women with
these words:

"Mothers who receive no prenatal care are four times more likely to give birth
prematurely. . . . Prenatal care is one of the most human and cost-effective
investments that we as a society can make."

Thousands of women who need that "human and cost-effective" care are in this
country illegally.

While Wilson wasn't advocating specifically for immigrant women, there is no
human difference between a pregnant U.S. citizen and a pregnant illegal Mexican
or Filipina. There is no human difference between their children. And there is
no legal difference, either, because all children born on American soil have
citizenship under the Constitution.

Yet the new Pete Wilson would shut these pregnant women out of prenatal clinics
because, he says, illegal immigrants are a drain on the state's treasury and
economy. Wilson unsuccessfully tried to cut prenatal care and other services to
immigrants on his own a few months back. Now he's trying again under the
anti-immigrant federal welfare bill passed this month.

Set aside for now the disagreements about the net effect of illegal immigrants
on the California economy. Set aside the arguments about the merits of turning
nurses and doctors into immigration cops, which we think would force them to
violate their obligations as healers..

Consider, instead, one reason Pete Wilson offered for providing prenatal care to
mothers generally: It saves money because it leads to the births of healthier
babies.

The damage to the children born with birth defects would be profound for them
and for the state's fiscal and social future. These children, all citizens by
birthright, would have to spend time in intensive care at enormous public
expense. Wilson is not so callous as to pull the plug. Some of these innocent
children will suffer long-term disabilities.

You don't have to think that withholding prenatal medical care for pregnant
women is morally bankrupt, as we do. It's fiscally foolish. What good can
possibly come from it?

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Editorial
The opinion of the Mercury News
Prenatal Care

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 SEPTEMBER 6, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ONE MORE WAY TO REACH AMERICA

BYLINE: JAN GOLDSMITH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 767 words


At 9:45 p.m. on Dec. 19, 1995, in a remote area of east San Diego County near
the Mexican border, Border Patrol agents were chasing a group of illegal
immigrants when one of them fell and sustained an ankle injury. All of the
illegal immigrants were apprehended, taken into custody and eventually deported
to Mexico - except the injured man. He was apprehended, but the agents were
under strict orders from Washington that he was not to be taken into custody.

Later, a paramedic asked about the man's nationality.

"We don't know and cannot ask," explained Border Patrol agents. "He will not be
taken into custody because we're not paying for him." The patient readily
admitted to paramedics his Mexican nationality and that he entered the U.S.
illegally. Yet, after receiving medical attention at a San Diego hospital, the
man was released.

A few days later, Border Patrol notes show, the scenario was repeated. This
time, a man captured by agents had fallen in Tijuana, but was able to cross the
border anyway. When the man complained of a lingering pain in his back, agents
called paramedics to the scene.

"Is he illegal?" asked one of the paramedics.

"We are not allowed to ask if he is a citizen or illegal," responded one of the
Border Patrol agents. After a short hospital stay, the man was released.

These are two documented examples of "patient dumping," a practice that has
become a daily occurrence in San Diego County. The federal government is
responsible for the costs of medical care provided to illegal immigrants in its
"custody."

To avoid paying those costs, Border Patrol agents are under instructions to
refuse to arrest illegal immigrants who are in need of medical care.

This policy ensures the federal government will not bear the cost of care, even
if it means illegal immigrants escape deportation.

"We will not incur an obligation for the government unnecessarily," writes a
spokesperson for Attorney General Janet Reno.

Patient dumping has forced California hospitals and taxpayers to provide tens of
millions of dollars in uncompensated medical care to illegal immigrants who were
apprehended by the U.S. Border Patrol. Gov. Pete Wilson's executive order on
illegal immigrants won't change that. Every time a Border Patrol chase results
in injuries, San Diego-area hospitals provide "free" care to those injured. But
of course, it isn't really free.

Medical care for Francisco Quintera - who was struck by a car while fleeing
Border Patrol agents - cost UC-San Diego Medical Center more than $1 million in
uncompensated expenses. That cost eventually will be passed on to taxpayers and
other patients.

In one recent vehicle chase, a van loaded with illegal immigrants crashed while
evading the Border Patrol, costing Scripps Hospital $200,000 and Mercy Hospital
$100,000 in uncompensated care.

This federal policy threatens the ability of some hospitals to survive.
Recently, Dr. Michael J. Sise, trauma director at Mercy Hospital, wrote
President Clinton asking for help and concluded, "Our trauma system, which
serves over 2.5 million citizens, faced a severe threat from the uncompensated
costs of health care for injured illegal immigrants." Hospitals have laid off
employees and reduced services to San Diego residents to help account for this
uncompensated care.

By design, this policy allows illegal immigrants to escape deportation. During
recent hearings of the Assembly Subcommittee on Border Crime, Jack Duffy,
representing Scripps Hospital, testified that after medical care is provided
"these patients are almost universally discharged to the street." Occasionally,
hospital administrators have contacted Border Patrol agents to come and retrieve
an admitted illegal immigrant, but they refuse to do so because it would violate
the federal patient-dumping policy.

Four Border Patrol agents testified during the hearing that the policy runs
counter to their obligation as law enforcement officers. According to Border
Patrol Agent William Librera, "The clear message is the cost to the federal
government is more important than detaining illegal aliens."

This policy is wrong. If emergency medical care is needed, the federal
government should pay for it, not California hospitals and taxpayers. Once
medical care is provided, the Border Patrol should retain custody of the illegal
immigrants and they should be deported. The current policy of relinquishing
custody so as to avoid paying the bills is unfair to California and further
abdicates the federal government's obligation to enforce our immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Assemblyman Jan Goldsmith, R-San Diego, is chairman of the Assembly Subcommittee
on Border Crime. He wrote this commentary for the Sacramento Bee.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: ILLUSTRATION BY KENT BARTON
[People filing through the crack in a hugh Liberty Bell]
[960906 ED 6B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 14, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

S.F. STATION AUDITIONS FIRED SHOCK JOCK

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 102 words


A San Francisco talk radio station struggling to draw more listeners during the
evening drive time is auditioning a former Sacramento host fired for suggesting
that drivers be rewarded for running down undocumented immigrants. KPIX-FM has
been trying out Jeff Katz this week on the 4 to 7 p.m. slot. Katz was fired from
KSTE-AM in Sacramento two weeks ago for suggesting that motorists near the
Mexican border be awarded a sombrero-shaped bumper sticker for every
undocumented immigrant they hit. For every 10 sombrero bumper stickers, Katz
said, a motorist should get a free drink or meal at Taco Bell.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 24, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT FLOW TIED TO ECONOMY

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 782 words


Even as public resentment toward illegal immigrants rose in the early 1990s, the
number of undocumented immigrants entering the state had already dropped sharply
from its level of previous years, a study released today suggests.

For instance, the study suggests that the year before California voters
registered their feelings about illegal immigration with the November 1994
passage of Proposition 187, estimated illegal immigration was just one-fifth its
level of three years before.Figures for 1992-'93 are the most recent available.

"Undocumented Immigration to California: 1980-1993," by the San Francisco-based
Public Policy Institute of California, is the first study to measure net annual
flows of undocumented immigrants into the state. The institute is a non-profit
organization that conducts non-partisan research on economic, social and
political issues.

Primary destination

California outstrips every other state in the nation as a destination for
undocumented immigrants. The study said undocumented immigration added between
1.3 million and 2.2 million new California residents during the '80s,
constituting 22 percent to 31 percent of the state's total population growth.

But that growth was far from steady, the study suggests. The flow of
undocumented immigrants was relatively low during the first few years of the
1980s, averaging about 100,000 a year, according to the study. It surged for
several years in the late 1980s, only to subside again in the early 1990s.

Although researchers stressed that their study was more quantitative than
qualitative, they did cite a couple of likely explanations for the large swings
in illegal immigration.

Economy booms, declines

Most notable was the health of the state's economy. In the early 1980s,
California experienced slow growth. Then in the late '80s, the economy boomed,
apparently prompting illegal immigrants to cross the border in search of jobs,
according to the study. Then when the state's economy took a nose dive in the
early 1990s, illegal immigration slowed as unemployment rose here.

But the late-'80s peak in undocumented immigration also may have been a one-time
phenomenon resulting from the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986,
according to the study. The study theorizes that this law may have drawn more
immigrants into the state as relatives of people granted amnesty came to join
their families.

The act made about 3 million illegal immigrants eligible for amnesty. Most of
them were required to have lived in the United States continuously since Jan. 1,
1982. Illegal farmworkers qualified even if they had worked in U.S. agriculture
only 90 days during a one-year period ending May 1, 1986. The deal gave
farmworkers 18 months to apply for amnesty, but other immigrants only 12 months,
ending in May of 1988.

Now, at a time when immigration rhetoric is running high in the state,
researchers acknowledge that this data could be used to show that undocumented
immigrants take jobs away from U.S. citizens. But they said it also could be
interpreted to show that undocumented immigrants take jobs citizens don't want.

Making up for outflow

Indeed, their analysis showed that the large immigrant surge of the late '80s
and early '90s actually coincided with a period in which many state residents
were leaving California, and fewer U.S. citizens were moving here.

"Anytime you put out figures on undocumented immigrants, it will be used," said
John Ellwood, director of the policy institute. "But the question is how it will
be used. This is just a background paper to give an estimate of undocumented
immigrants over a certain time period. Politicians will read different things
into those numbers."

The study, which took six months to put together using U.S. Census and U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization data, will be circulated to researchers and
policy makers in California and Washington, D.C.

CHART
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS
This is the estimated increase (or decrease) per year of undocumented immigrants

 in California based on data on licensed drivers, occupied households and
persons per household, and assuming a moderate census under-count in 1980 and
1990. Each 12-month period starts in April.
Year        Increase
1980-'81          134,000
1981-'82          (8,000)
1982-'83          (43,000)
1983-'84          49,000
1984-'85          99,000
1985-'86          218,000
1986-'87          274,000
1987-'88          261,000
1988-'89          294,000
1989-'90          424,000
1990-'91          272,000
1991-'92          122,000
1992-'93          84,000
Source:  Public Policy Institute of California
MERCURY NEWS

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 10, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS TO REINFORCE FORCE PATROLLING SAN DIEGO AREA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 72 words


On the two-year anniversary of an unprecedented federal effort to control
illegal immigration at the U.S.-Mexico border, reinforcements will be added to
beleaguered east San Diego County. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris Meissner is scheduled to announce today that about 200 more
Border Patrol agents will be assigned to the border line east of San Diego
stretching about 66 miles to Imperial County.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 16, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GROUPS CHALLENGE CUTS IN PRENATAL CARE PLAN TARGETS UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Civil rights groups asked a federal judge Tuesday for a temporary restraining
order that would bar California from denying prenatal care to undocumented
immigrant women.

U.S. District Court Judge Mariana Pfaelzer took the request under submission and
did not immediately set a hearing date, said Ann Bradley, spokeswoman for the
American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California.

The ACLU said the request was a response to an indication by Douglas Porter,
chief of the Medi-Cal program for the state Department of Health Services, that
a halt to prenatal care for undocumented immigrants was "imminent."

Porter told a Senate committee at a hearing last week that notices would be sent
to mothers and providers announcing cuts in prenatal care, the ACLU said.

Gov. Pete Wilson's administration maintains the cuts are required under the new
federal welfare reform bill signed into law by President Clinton.

But opponents accused the governor of trying to use the welfare bill as a shield
to implement elements of Proposition 187, a 1994 initiative aimed at illegal
immigration that has been tied up in the courts since its passage.

Mark Rosenbaum, ACLU legal director, issued a statement accusing Wilson of a
"macabre attempt" that "guarantees infant mortality and birth defects for
citizen children in the service of blatantly political objectives."

Wilson, in a statement, denounced the civil rights groups' court filing.

"This is a frivolous action with no legal merit which seeks to thwart the will
of the people of California and of the United States, the U.S. Congress and the
president," Wilson said.

Wilson spokeswoman Lisa Kalustian confirmed the administration plans to
implement the cuts "soon," but she could not give a precise time frame.

Rosenbaum's charge on mortality was "blatantly unfair," she said.

"We're not arguing whether prenatal care is a good thing or a bad thing. . . .
In a perfect world we'd love to have resources for everybody," Kalustian said.

The restraining order was sought by the ACLU, the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund, the law firm of O'Melveny & Myers and others.

The groups contend that barring prenatal care would jeopardize the health of
pregnant women and their children - who are citizens at birth - and increase
costs when the women are forced to seek emergency services.

They claim the state's action would violate Pfaelzer's Dec. 14, 1994,
injunction, which prohibited implementation of much of Proposition 187.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 22, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS HOLDS LANDSCAPER WORKING AT U.S. SITE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A landscaper working at Vice President Al Gore's compound was charged Monday as
an illegal immigrant, authorities said.

Federal agents arrested and initiated deportation proceedings against Issac
Belzazar Figueroa, 22, of Honduras, and detained another worker, the Washington
Post reported.

Agents from the Immigration and Naturalization Service questioned four employees
of a landscaping company that does work on the grounds of the U.S. Naval
Observatory, where the vice president's official residence is situated.

During a routine check of workers' identification cards, a Secret Service
officer noticed that a work permit of an employee from El Salvador had recently
expired and called the INS.

The INS questioned four workers and found that two were legally in the United
States. The other two were taken into custody, but it was discovered that the
Salvadoran had a pending asylum application, and he was released and told to
update his work permit, the Post reported.

Belzazar told the INS that he crossed the border illegally near Brownsville,
Texas, according to agency spokesman Russ Bergeron. He then obtained a lawyer
and refused to answer further questions, the Post said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 23, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT COST: $65 BILLION, SAYS STUDY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 141 words


The 24.4 million legal and illegal immigrants who entered the United States
since 1970 will cost taxpayers $65 billion this year, according to a study
released Tuesday. More than 62 percent of the cost comes from legal immigration,
said Rice University economist Donald Huddle, author of the report. This is
"obvious," since illegal immigrants are not eligible for many services and
benefits and many of them "actually work," said Huddle.

Huddle caused much controversy three years ago with a study that calculated
unusually high immigration costs. The 1993 study was widely criticized by the
Urban Institute, a Washington-based research group, and other immigration
scholars. Urban Institute official Jeffrey Passel said several researchers
looked at the details of Huddle's 1993 study, and concluded "it was completely
wrong."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

CORRECTION-DATE: OCTOBER 24, 1996

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 10/24/96, pg. 2A)
In a Washington news brief that appeared on page 8A of Wednesday's Mercury News,
a headline incorrectly stated that a study had found illegal immigrants will
cost taxpayers $65 billion this year. The study said that $65 billion will be
the combined cost of both legal and illegal immigrants who entered the United
States since 1970.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 3, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RULING OKS CUTS IN CARE TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PRENATAL BENEFITS: JUDGE LETS NEW
U.S. WELFARE LAW SUPERSEDE '94 ORDER.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


California can use the nation's new welfare law to cut state-funded prenatal
care to illegal immigrants, a federal judge ruled in modifying a 1994 order that
had declared most provisions of Proposition 187 unconstitutional.

U.S. District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer said in a nine-page ruling Friday that
her 1994 injunction does not stop Gov. Pete Wilson from using provisions of the
new federal welfare law to cut prenatal care for about 70,000 pregnant women who
are undocumented immigrants.

Attorneys on both sides of the struggle over the voter-approved measure said the
ruling could clear the way for the administration of Gov. Pete Wilson to keep
illegal immigrants from using dozens of other state-funded programs, from
cancer-screening efforts to public education.

Federal bill loses obstacle

"It is our belief that the state will now be able to implement a majority of the
federal welfare bill," said Sean Walsh, spokesman for the governor. "And it is
also our hope that this will help convince the court that Proposition 187 should
be implemented and the will of the people of California should be heard."

Immigrant advocates disappointed by Friday's ruling included Mark Rosenbaum,
legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. He
predicted that other areas of medical care for undocumented immigrants would be
targeted.

The federal welfare law in general bars illegal immigrants from prenatal care
programs, even if funding is from the state.

"The court's injunction does not prohibit the implementation of any federal
law," Judge Pfaelzer said. "Congress has decided that the states should deny
health benefits to illegal aliens."

Advocates for immigrants had gone to the judge in an effort to block Wilson's
plan to make illegal immigrants ineligible for prenatal care. While critics said
Wilson's move was designed to circumvent the judge's injunction against
Proposition 187, the hotly contested 1994 measure to end benefits for illegal
immigrants, the governor maintained he was merely carrying out mandates of the
new federal welfare statute.

State takes back seat

Her 1994 injunction, the judge noted, was based on a finding that much of
Proposition 187 unconstitutionally usurped federal authority in immigration law.
But now Congress has directed the states to deny some benefits to illegal
immigrants.

The judge's injunction still applies to most features of the 1994 ballot
initiative, such as keeping undocumented children out of public schools and
requiring police to interrogate suspected illegal immigrants.

The federal welfare overhaul, signed into law Aug. 22 by President Clinton, says
state and local governments may continue most aid to illegal immigrants only
when states pass new laws authorizing such assistance.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 8, 1996 Friday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

INS ARRESTS MAN IN SELLING OF FAKE DOCUMENTS

BYLINE: E. MARK MORENO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 350 words


Federal agents arrested a 52-year-old Fremont man for allegedly making and
selling fake documents out of the storefront of his local consulting firm for
Mexican immigrants.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officers raided the office of Rogelio
Santillan during the noon lunch hour Wednesday as curious workers from the
surrounding office complex in central Fremont watched.

Santillan, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, was taken to the Oakland city jail.
He is being held on charges of conspiracy to create false documents and faces
deportation if convicted.

Agents said Santillan provided altered birth certificates, U.S. and Mexican
passports with false INS stamps and arrival records with false border entry
stamps, for up to $2,500 apiece. He was a leading Northern California supplier
of false documents that allowed illegal immigrants to work in the United States,
the INS charged.

When 22 agents arrived at the office complex on Paseo Padre Parkway, they found
16 other undocumented people - allegedly awaiting false documents. Four men and
one woman were taken into custody on charges relating to the falsified
documents, INS San Francisco district spokeswoman Sharon Rummary said.

Two other men chose to be deported to Mexico voluntarily. Nine others face
deportation, she said.

Investigators were tipped off to the operation two years ago, when illegal
immigrants caught with false documents admitted they received the documents from
Santillan's Fremont office.

"We kept finding people with the documents," Rummary said. "And we asked them
where they came from."

Santillan lived on Gissing Place in northeast Fremont, a quiet middle-class area
near Alameda Creek. He shared offices with a copy business, at 3911 Paseo Padre
Parkway, called Rogelio Santillan Consulting, in which he helped new immigrants
with paperwork and real documents.

A handwritten sign on pink paper in black felt ink is now taped to the window of
Santillan's office. It reads, in Spanish: "Excuse my absence. I've been taken to
a hotel and won't be back for some time. - Rogelio."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 14, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 214 words


The Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service may consider the fraud an illegal immigrant used to enter the country
when deciding whether the person should be deported. The unanimous decision
strengthens the INS's authority to decide when someone should be forced to leave
the country. It also reverses a ruling by an appeals court that said because the
government has a general policy of disregarding fraudulent acts committed by
people trying to gain entry, it must also exclude from consideration any
fraudulent acts connected to how one got into the United States.
* An unusual environmental case that was argued before the Supreme Court found
the Clinton administration struggling to defend its view that people can sue the
government for doing too little to protect endangered species, but not for doing
too much. Like many other environmental laws, the Endangered Species Act
includes a "citizen suit" provision that permits "any person" to sue officials
of the Interior or Commerce departments for failing to carry out their
responsibilities under the law. Despite efforts to deflect the court's interest,
the justices appeared eager to get to the merits of the case and grapple with
the meaning of the citizen-suit provision.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               NOVEMBER 27, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE BLOCKS PRENATAL CARE CUT INJUNCTION: GOV. WILSON'S PLAN TO DENY ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS IS STYMIED.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Gov. Pete Wilson's attempt to cut off prenatal care to illegal immigrants in
California next week was blocked Tuesday by a Superior Court judge.

Judge William Cahill issued a preliminary injunction at the request of civil
rights organizations and the city of San Francisco. They argued that Wilson had
no valid grounds to order the cutoff on an emergency basis and bypass the usual
requirements of advance notice and public comment.

State lawyers said the emergency regulations, which were to take effect Sunday,
were justified by the new federal welfare law signed by President Clinton in
August. It includes a provision requiring states to abolish state-funded benefit
programs for illegal immigrants.

However, the federal law contains no deadlines for state action or penalties for
states that fail to act quickly. At a hearing last week, Cahill said none of the
16 other states with state-funded programs covered by the law had taken
emergency action.

"The mere enactment of a federal law does not automatically create an emergency
here in California," Cahill wrote Tuesday.

He said state officials "have presented no reason why the (welfare law's)
requirements or its goal of removing incentives for illegal immigration have
suddenly presented California with a crisis of such a magnitude that public
input should be barred from the rule-making process."

State-funded prenatal care for illegal immigrants was added to the Medi-Cal
program by state law in 1988. The state spends $69 million to care for 70,000
women a year under the program.

Wilson will appeal the ruling, said spokeswoman Lisa Kalustian.

"This decision is in conflict with federal law that required benefits be
terminated to illegal immigrants," she said. "It only succeeds in delaying by
maybe six months what Congress already passed into law."

State lawyers have said the cutoff might be accomplished as early as February by
following the normal, non-emergency regulatory process.

"This lawsuit doesn't prevent them from implementing the welfare act," said
attorney Robert Newman of the Western Center on Law and Poverty. "It prevented
them from implementing it without the input from the public.

"We're delighted that (Cahill) recognized, as probably everybody else does, that
there is no emergency," Newman said. "The only crisis that was being created in
this case was the one by the governor" by attempting to cut off care, he said.

Civil rights groups say eliminating prenatal care increases the risk of
pregnancy complications and diseases. They say numerous studies have shown that
each dollar spent for prenatal care saves $3 in long-term health costs.

Opponents of Wilson's plan also said the emergency regulations failed to spell
out the emergency conditions or communicable diseases that were exempt from the
cutoff and were so vague that they could disqualify women who remained eligible
for care under federal law.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 DECEMBER 16, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RAIDS TURNED INTO JOB OPTIONS INS ACTIONS HELP WELFARE RECIPIENTS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1235 words


As federal officials worry about how they're going to find jobs for the army of
welfare recipients who will be pushed off the dole by welfare reform, the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service has seized upon a provocative idea:

Turn INS raids into employment opportunities for welfare recipients.

In Virginia, where the practice is receiving its first serious test, the INS
notifies the state when it rounds up undocumented immigrants at workplace raids.
The INS provides the name of the manager or owner of the raided business, the
number of workers removed and the kind of jobs they held. Welfare and employment
officials then try to match the openings with the skills and interests of
welfare recipients and the unemployed. Next, they provide businesses with a list
of people to hire.

INS officials are now trying to sell the idea to California and four other
states with swelling ranks of illegal immigrants. The concept holds obvious
appeal for welfare officials who need to help almost 200,000 Californians find
jobs or training by next October.

But although the program may seem simple and common-sensical to some, it has
raised the hackles of politicians and others who contend it may lead to INS
abuses. Critics fear agents will threaten employers with stiffer fines and more
raids if they don't cooperate by hiring welfare recipients.

Others worry whether welfare recipients, the vast majority of whom are women,
will take back-breaking jobs in car washes, lettuce fields and construction
sites - areas where the INS often finds undocumented workers. Many employers say
no and argue that their businesses shouldn't be turned into public-policy
laboratories.

Greater tension feared

Immigrant-rights advocates also worry that competition for jobs will lead to
greater tension between blacks and Latinos. Nationally, African-Americans
account for 37 percent of the welfare caseload. But the overwhelming majority of
undocumented workers are Latinos, who make up 19 percent of the welfare
caseload. The fear is that they will resent the workers who replace them.

INS officials scoff at the notion. They hope the program will smash some welfare
myths once and for all.

"It's a myth that people on welfare want to stay there," said Lynn Ligon, an INS
official in Dallas who helped conceive a successful program that places the
unemployed and welfare recipients in INS-created jobs. "Sitting at home watching
the TV all day is not productive monetarily or good for your mental well-being."

Other INS officials note that another myth is that undocumented workers take
only low-paying jobs that are shunned by the native-born.

Rick Burgess, a top investigation official for the Western INS region, said many
logging jobs along California's North Coast are filled by illegal workers - in a
region known for its high welfare and unemployment rates.

"These are really good jobs that often pay more than $11 an hour," Burgess said.

Virginia's 1 1/2-month-old program, called "Virginia's Jobs for Virginia's
Workers," is too new to evaluate. But INS officials have high hopes that it will
make their jobs easier because employers no longer will be able to contend that
the INS is "stealing" their workers and leaving them short-handed and unable to
meet production deadlines.

The Virginia program was the brainchild of Bill Carroll, the INS chief in
Washington, D.C., whose district covers Virginia.

"It's a perfect marriage," Carroll said of discouraging illegal immigration
while reducing the number of welfare recipients. "We have to integrate all of
these national policies."

The Clinton administration hopes the Virginia program will be copied by other
states.

'Remove the job magnet'

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner recently wrote to California Gov. Pete Wilson
and governors in Texas, Florida, New York and Illinois. Meissner hailed
Virginia's program as an "innovative federal-state partnership" that will
"remove the job magnet which draws illegal immigrants to the United States and .
. . free up jobs and wages for America's legal workers."

Lisa Kalustian, a spokeswoman for Wilson, said the governor's office had not yet
replied to Meissner's letter. "It definitely is something that we're looking at
in the mix," she said. In addition, she noted that the state Employment
Development Department and the Department of Social Services have been working
on a similar pilot program in Los Angeles and Orange counties.

Except in the Virginia program, state agencies are not notified by the INS when
raids occur, Carroll said. Instead, the INS encourages employers to contact the
agencies themselves.

"This is the first time there's been a concerted effort statewide and the
program has been formal rather than informal," he said.

INS officials say the Southern California program hasn't exactly been a smashing
success thus far. Figures from EDD confirm that.

From the program's June kick-off to September, the two state agencies referred
260 job applicants - including about 40 welfare recipients - to businesses
raided by the INS, EDD spokeswoman Suzanne Schroeder said. Only seven landed
jobs.

'Don't want to work'

"We're trying to get the employers to cooperate, but they complain that the
referrals stay with them for a day or so and don't want to work," said John
Brechtel, acting head of the INS Orange County office.

The concept of using unemployed workers and welfare recipients to replace
undocumented workers was born four years ago in Dallas. The program, called
Operation Jobs, has been honored by Vice President Al Gore for helping to
"reinvent government."

The key is building rapport with the business community, said Ligon, who added
that INS officials in Dallas had been working aggressively to build such a
relationship since 1986, when it became illegal to knowingly hire undocumented
immigrants.

Debbie Blair, personnel manager at General Aluminum in Carrolton, Texas, said
her company has replaced a couple of hundred illegal manufacturing employees
through Operation Jobs. Virtually all of the referrals have been satisfactory,
she said.

"I love it," she said. "It's great to see a positive government program instead
of seeing the same insanity repeating itself over and over and over again."

But other employers are skeptical. Among them: Owens Country Sausage of
Richardson, Texas.

The company was audited by the INS in October 1994 and caught employing 21
illegal workers, who were making between $7 and $12 an hour. The firm has had no
luck with referrals from social service or state employment agencies, said
Owens' human resources manager, Jackie Bellamy.

Exaggerate qualifications

The reason, she said, is that welfare recipients tend to exaggerate their
qualifications. "They haven't worked very well for us," she said. "They have
transportation problems and not very good work habits."

The company prefers to advertise in the Dallas Morning News so it can be
specific about the qualifications it is looking for, in addition to having more
control over the screening process.

INS and welfare officials say they need to do a better job of working together
and improving the training and motivation of welfare recipients - to say nothing
of changing attitudes within the INS.

"We still have a lot of employees who want to maintain an adversarial role with
the businesses," Ligon said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: HOW IT WORKS
The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has been experimenting with the
concept of replacing undocumented workers with legal workers, including welfare
recipients, for four years. The country's most successful program is Operation
Jobs in Dallas. It works like this:
Through surveillance and tips, the INS identifies a business suspected of
employing illegal workers.
The INS notifies the employer that it will inspect company I-9 forms, which show
whether the business has verified whether employees are legally eligible to
work.
INS agents review the I-9s, immigrant registration numbers, Social Security
numbers and other documentation to determine whether the workers are legal.
If illegal workers are identified, the INS meets with the employer to see
whether the business is willing to take part in Operation Jobs. If so, the
employer is given a specific period of time in which to recruit legal workers.
The employer is given a list of agencies and cooperating organizations, ranging
from welfare offices to the Salvation Army, to contact for job referrals.
Agents arrest the illegal workers and document the number of authorized workers
recruited through Operation Jobs. Cooperative employers see their potential
fines reduced or eliminated.
Source: INSINS JOB PROPOSAL
Welfare Reform

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                DECEMBER 19, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAW OFFICER SLIDES BORDER DRUG BATTLE TO THE EAST

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Sheriff Bill Kolender announced Wednesday he will send five deputies and one
sergeant to the rural back country of east San Diego County to fight drug
smuggling along the U.S.-Mexico border.

The extra officers will focus on smuggling and drug-related crimes, including
burglary and trespassing. The eastern corridor has become a popular route for
immigrant and drug smugglers shut out of San Diego by a 2-year-old federal
initiative along the border called Operation Gatekeeper.

"As Operation Gatekeeper becomes more effective, we're seeing not only illegal
immigrants but illegal drugs coming through the east county," Kolender said
Wednesday. "Apprehensions have gone up several hundred percent."

However, neither Kolender nor sheriff's spokesman Ron Reina could provide
statistics to back up the claim. At the two U.S. Border Patrol stations in east
San Diego County, apprehensions of illegal immigrants shot up from 2,294 in
1994-95 to 78,762 in 1995-96.

"I want to put some pressure on those people who feel that east county is a
handy detour to transporting drugs into the San Diego area," Kolender said.

Though not direct evidence of increased drug smuggling, Border Patrol agents
sometimes find narcotics in the vehicles and clothing of illegal immigrants.

Marijuana, cocaine and methamphetamine are the most prevalent drugs confiscated,
according to the sheriff's department and Border Patrol.

The U.S. Border Patrol is the lead agency in the eastern drug interdiction
effort that includes officers from the California Highway Patrol, the U.S.
Forest Service, U.S. Customs and the California Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement.

The sheriff's assignments will begin next month, Kolender said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: AP FILE PHOTO
A U.S. Border Patrol agent, right top, watches a group of people lining up at
the U.S.-Mexican border in eastern San Diego County.
[961219 CA 3B 4]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                DECEMBER 21, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS BRACES FOR CRUSH AT BORDER IMMIGRANTS TO RETURN AFTER HOLIDAY VISITS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 284 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


As predictable as any holiday tradition, the Christmas exodus of illegal
immigrants to Mexico is followed by a flood of returnees at the border when the
holidays end.

This season, the Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to be ready for
them.

On the heels of last year, when up to 200 illegal immigrants with fraudulent
documents swarmed the San Ysidro border crossing on the busiest days, the INS
will reinforce the California border with up to 120 additional officers. They
will also add Customs inspectors, Border Patrol agents and detention space.

The strategy will center on San Ysidro, the world's busiest border crossing.
Reinforcements will be added to the Otay Mesa and Tecate crossings farther east
if necessary, said Mark Reed, INS director in San Diego.

Officials plan to add up to 100 beds at detention centers in Southern California
and Las Vegas. They will assign an anti-smuggling unit to San Ysidro, along with
a team of U.S. Border Patrol agents that targets suppliers of phony documents.

More traffic lanes will be opened at the border and more U.S. Customs agents
will patrol the auto lines on foot looking for smugglers. Trained dogs will
sniff for illegal immigrants hiding in car trunks.

The seasonal surge is propelled by cultural and religious traditions that often
keep migratory Mexicans in their country until Jan. 6, the Catholic Feast of the
Epiphany, which marks the end of the Christmas season.

After that, they head back to their jobs in the United States. But the journey
became much more difficult two years ago with the onset of Operation Gatekeeper,
the Clinton administration's border enforcement effort in western San Diego
County.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: AP FILE PHOTO
The Immigration and Naturalization Service will beef up surveillance at
crossings into San Diego County at the end of the holidays.
[961221 CA 3B 4]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 7, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SHADES OF THE GESTAPO: GERMANY GOES AFTER VIETNAMESE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 430 words


THE United States is not the only country where undocumented immigrants, and the
crimes committed by some of them, have ignited divisive public debate. In
Germany, criminal gangs of Vietnamese, some of them undocumented, smuggle
millions of dollars worth of cigarettes. Cross a gang and you might get a bullet
in the brain, or an arm sliced with a sword.

Alarmed Germans are torn about what to do.

Germany has offered Hanoi $142 million in aid and export credits to take back
40,000 people, almost half the country's Vietnamese immigrants. Deported would
be 10,000 who entered illegally, 20,000 whose applications for political asylum
have been denied, and 10,000 who were imported by East Germany as contract
workers.

But how to find them? Police have conducted some searches through housing
projects where many Vietnamese live, but the searches pose problems.

Ham-handed searches through immigrant communities to round up undocumented
individuals risk roughing up and antagonizing legitimate residents along with
those who lack papers. If such searches send criminals underground, and make
honest folk reluctant to cooperate with police, crooks will be even harder to
catch.

To some Germans, too, the idea of mass roundups of Vietnamese conjures up Nazi
roundups of Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals and others. Sweeps through every
Vietnamese neighborhood would put every Asian face under suspicion.

More than horrible memories are at stake. Lives are. It would encourage the
kinds of racist hooligans who have attacked and sometimes killed immigrants,
including longtime legal residents.

It's possible that immigration measures, such as better border controls, would
deter some criminals. But judging from U.S. problems with immigrant gangs,
tightening German immigration rules won't help much.

To fight crime, Germany should start with the basics. The best way to catch the
crooks in Vietnamese neighborhoods is to build stronger ties to the law-abiding
majority.

San Jose's police could tell their Berlin counterparts a thing or two about
recruiting officers who can fit right in to the immigrant neighborhoods they
patrol. Berlin police oversee the largest number of the undocumented immigrants
and contract workers, yet they don't have any Vietnamese-speaking officers.

Germany, like any other country, has a right to deport people who have broken
its immigration laws. But to catch crooks, German officials would be better off
working with the resident Vietnamese, employing the kind of police tactics that
win trust in immigrant communities.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 8, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOV. WILSON'S IMMIGRATION SUIT REJECTED CLINTON WINS: FEDERAL APPEALS COURT SAYS
DISPUTE IS POLITICAL, NOT LEGAL.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Gov. Pete Wilson's suit seeking $2.4 billion from the federal government for the
costs of illegal immigration was rejected Tuesday by a federal appeals court,
which said the dispute was political, not legal.

Wilson repeatedly has accused the Clinton administration of failing to control
the nation's borders and leaving the states with the bill. He sued the federal
government in 1994 for California's costs of education, emergency health care
and imprisonment of illegal immigrants.

The suit claimed, among other things, that California was under invasion by
illegal immigrants, estimated by state officials at 1.7 million people or 5
percent of the state's population. Therefore, the federal government is
violating its constitutional duty to protect the states from invasion, Wilson
contended.

He also argued that the state should not be forced to pay for the federal
government's failures, including its failure to enforce laws on deportation of
illegal immigrants who commit crimes.

But the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said courts have no authority to
decide such issues. For the most part, the court said, they are "political
questions" to be decided by the president and Congress.

For example, courts lack jurisdiction as well as standards to determine "whether
or when an influx of illegal immigrants should be said to constitute an
invasion," said the opinion by U.S. District Judge Robert Merhige of Virginia,
temporarily assigned to the appeals court.

He also said the constitutional requirement to protect the states from invasion
was designed to guard against armed hostility from abroad, not immigration.

The 3-0 ruling upheld a decision by U.S. District Judge Judith Keep of San Diego
to dismiss Wilson's suit.

Wilson said he was not surprised by the ruling.

"This is a ground-breaking case that raises novel legal issues which we knew
would have to be decided by the United States Supreme Court," the governor said
in a statement. "We are now in a position to seek review from the high court."

The Clinton administration says it is fulfilling its duties. Federal funds to
California for the cost of imprisoning illegal immigrants convicted of crimes
soared from $30 million in 1995 to $270 million last month, the Justice
Department said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 8, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT POPULATION PLACED AT 5 MILLION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 781 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of immigrants living in the United States illegally has increased by
about 1.1 million people in the past four years to a total of 5 million people,
the government reported Friday.

An average of 275,000 illegal immigrants a year are entering the country and
staying, according to an Immigration and Naturalization Service study billed as
the most systematic government effort ever to count the nation's undocumented
population.

California is by far the most popular destination of illegal immigrants, the INS
found, providing a home for more than 2 million - 40 percent of the overall
national total. The INS estimated 1.6 million illegal immigrants were in the
state in 1992.

Fully 6.3 percent of the California population is now undocumented, the INS
said, compared with 3.7 percent in Texas, the state with the next largest total.
Nationally, illegal immigrants make up 1.9 percent of the total population.

Gov. Pete Wilson immediately seized on the numbers as evidence that the Clinton
administration has been underestimating the impact of illegal immigration in the
state - an assertion denied by the White House. Wilson renewed his call on
Washington to reimburse California for money spent on prisons, health care,
education and other "crushing costs associated with providing services to
illegal aliens."

Using annual population data from the U.S. Census Bureau, the INS determined
that an estimated 3.9 million illegal immigrants were in the country in 1992 -
up from earlier figures of 3.2 million. Most of the difference came from better
counting of Mexican migrants, officials said.

Mexico's role

The INS estimates highlight the crucial role in immigration policy played by
neighboring Mexico, the birthplace of 54.1 percent of all illegal immigrants now
residing in the United States. Next on the list, but far behind, is El Salvador,
6.7 percent, followed by Guatemala, 3.3 percent, and Canada, 2.1 percent.

In announcing the new estimate, Robert Bach, the INS executive associate
commissioner for policy and planning, described the illegal immigrant population
as a problem largely "inherited" from previous administrations. He said that
over the past two decades, "a lack of resources and attention allowed illegal
immigration to flourish," but that the administration now has an effective
"multi-year strategy" to cope with it.

Bach pointed to major funding increases provided in recent years that doubled
the INS budget since 1993, from $1.5 billion to $3.1 billion. With more
manpower, equipment and programs, the INS is deporting more people, beefing up
enforcement at the Mexican border and ensuring that fewer illegal immigrants
obtain work, he said.

Government critics

But critics of the government's current approach said the increasing numbers
illustrated the lack of sincere commitment to enforcement - particularly away
from the border, at work sites that provide the jobs drawing most immigrants.

"What this says is that border enforcement is only part of the solution to
illegal immigration," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington-based group that seeks to reduce overall
immigration. "The border can never be completely shut down."

The illegal-immigrant population is fairly close to what it was before passage
of a sweeping 1986 immigration law that gave amnesty, in the form of
citizenship, to nearly 3 million people who were here illegally. Prior to that,
depending on who is doing the counting, anywhere from 4.8 million to 6 million
people were here unlawfully.

The latest estimates, based largely on Census data, cover illegal immigrants who
live here at least a year, not those who slip in for a few days or months and
then return home. INS said its estimates, which could be off by as much as
400,000 people in either direction, err on the high side.

Forty percent of undocumented immigrants overstayed their visas, the agency
estimates. The rest entered without inspection, crossing the U.S.-Mexican border
illegally or coming in at other land, sea or air points.

CHART:
LANDS OF ORIGIN
Top 10 countries of origin of the estimated 5 million illegal immigrants in the
United States, and percent of the total:
Mexico         2,700,000             54.1%
El Salvador      335,000              6.7%
Guatemala        165,000              3.3%
Canada           120,000              2.4%
Haiti            105,000              2.1%
Philippines       95,000              1.9%
Honduras          90,000              1.7%
Poland            70,000              1.4%
Nicaragua         70,000              1.4%
Bahamas           70,000              1.4%
Source:  INS Office of Policy and Planning

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 12, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SAN DIEGO CRACKDOWN FORCES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO CROSS IN MOUNTAIN COLD A
TREACHEROUS TREK

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: CAMPO


Martin Facio can thank the U.S. government for reminding him of the proper way
to dress when sneaking across the border.

Because of a U.S. border crackdown in the balmy San Diego area, illegal
immigrants have been trying to cross into the United States by trekking through
the cold, windswept mountains to the east. As a result, at least 14 immigrants
have died of exposure in the past month.

To prevent more deaths, the U.S. and Mexican governments are broadcasting public
service announcements warning illegal immigrants to stay away from the area.

"Well, I'm not saying we should tell them how to get here, but sometimes we find
them wearing trash bags they've found - like that's going to keep them warm and
dry," said Ronny Kastner, a Border Patrol agent in Campo, where an average of
125 immigrants are arrested each night. "This year we found them after it was
too late, or we found people real cold."

Facio, a 33-year-old auto repairman from Mexico City, heard radios crackling in
Tijuana with helpful hints for would-be crossers.

He and his nephews bought long underwear and flannel shirts and stayed in a
Tijuana way station until the weather, which had been around the freezing mark,
broke. As temperatures climbed to the mid-50s, Facio and his nephews set out on
their journey, heading more than 50 miles east of Tijuana.

By the time Border Patrol agents caught them and put them in a detention cell
just after nightfall on the same day they set out, the temperature had dipped to
38 degrees.

In the next 24 hours, 126 other immigrants were detained by agents based at
Campo, an enforcement area that encompasses an Indian reservation, the Cleveland
National Forest and the site of most of the 14 deaths - the Laguna Mountains.

Although the international border and the main highway are only two miles apart,
impassable mountains turn the trip into a 22-hour marathon. And that's if the
immigrants don't stop to rest or eat. The average illegal immigrant logs three
to four days between the border fence and downtown Campo.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Map;
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Campo
[970212 CA 3B 3]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A U.S. Border Patrol agent watches a group of men suspected of illegally
crossing the border in eastern San Diego County.
[970212 CA 3B 1]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Paramedics treat a man suspected of being an illegal immigrant, who broke his
leg while being chased by Border Patrol agents.
[970212 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 20, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRENATAL CARE CUTS FOR ILLEGAL RESIDENTS COULD AFFECT OTHERS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Uninsured Californians could lose already scarce access to health care under a
plan to cut prenatal care for illegal immigrant women, doctors and others said
Wednesday.

New regulations that would cut off Medi-Cal benefits for pregnant illegal
immigrants beginning in July will undermine the financial stability of many
medical clinics serving the poor who are legal residents of California,
directors said.

Gov. Pete Wilson's administration says eliminating prenatal care for about
70,000 illegal immigrant women a year will save state taxpayers $69.3 million a
year.

But dozens of doctors, nurses and other health care advocates testified at a
hearing against the proposal, saying it could cost California far more in the
long run.

"I don't know of any physician who would be eager to support this," said Dr.
Jose Chibras of the San Benito Health Foundation. "Clearly this is a political
decision and not a medical decision.

"I don't see anywhere in these documents that anyone has stated what it's going
to cost in terms of (birth) defects, lives, infant mortality. I don't know that
you can put a price on a life."

Chibras said his clinic provides prenatal care to about 5,000 undocumented
immigrants a year, about one-sixth of its total patient load.

He said losing the Medi-Cal reimbursements would cost the foundation about
$750,000 and could force it to lay off two of its six doctors and a physician's
assistant.

That would hurt care for other patients, particularly low-income Californians,
said Dr. Ramon Pena, also of the San Benito foundation. "What about . . . not
being able to have money to finance care for somebody who is a citizen, who is
uninsured, who has lost their job," Pena said.

Similarly, the Clinica de Salud de Valle de Salinas in Monterey County would
lose $700,000 and would face laying off two of its 10 doctors and three nurses,
said the clinic's executive director, Dr. Maximilian Cuevas.

He said much of the burden would shift to county hospitals as women showed up in
emergency rooms to give birth.

The Wilson administration says the regulations are justified by the federal
welfare law signed by President Clinton last August. It includes a provision
requiring states to abolish state-funded benefit programs for illegal
immigrants, although it allows states to pass new legislation to adopt successor
programs.

However, George Cate, a lobbyist for the California HealthCare Association,
argued that the federal provision was unconstitutional. "The state can do what
it wants to with its own money," Cate said, urging the state to drop the
regulations.

If approved by the Office of Administrative Law, the regulations will take
effect in July.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A woman and her child join others from a Latino immigration rights group
Wednesday at a hearing by the state Department of Health Services on planned
cuts in Medi-Cal benefits for pregnant illegal immigrants.
[970220 CA 3B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 26, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LET'S BE HONEST ABOUT THE BORDER 'THREAT'

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 922 words


LATEST REPORT on illegal immigration: There are now 5 million illegal immigrants
in the United States, with 40 percent of them in California.

Let's say, for the sake of argument, that the IMG
SRC="http://www.sjmercury.com/opinion/graphics/sigs/joe.sig" WIDTH=102
HEIGHT=156 BORDER=0 ALIGN=left government rounded up and deported every one of
them tomorrow.

Crime and fear of crime would drop enough to let us keep our doors open at
night, just like in the old days. Middle-income couples could actually buy a
house in Silicon Valley and save for retirement. Apple Computer would crush
Microsoft and hire back all those laid-off workers. The air would clear up and
traffic jams would disappear on Highway 101. We could close the public hospitals
and welfare offices.

Yes, the scent of fruit-tree blossoms in the spring would again waft over the
Valley of Heart's Delight and the Golden State.

Now, back to reality.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service reported this month that the number
of immigrants living in the United States illegally has increased by about 1.1
million people in the past four years. These are people who stay for at least a
year, not those who cross over and back for temporary employment. I have no
quarrel with these numbers. In fact, 5 million was a conservatively high
estimate more than 10 years ago.

Five million border crossers sounds like a lot, but it isn't a panic-button
number. Illegal immigrants aren't overrunning America or California, where they
account for 6.3 percent of the state's population.

Yet, the INS report has become gasoline in the hands of opportunistic
politicians and anti-immigrant ideologues. Gov. Pete Wilson used it the other
day to press Washington for more money to reimburse states and counties for
costs associated with services to illegal immigrants.

OK, fine. Write the check, Mr. President. It's true that illegal immigration
puts a heavier burden on health and education in some counties and school
districts, especially in the Los Angeles area and in East San Jose.

But, if Wilson were honest about it, he'd admit that the undocumented workforce
contributes to county and state economies and treasuries in other ways.
Completely lost in the cost-of-immigration debate is their role in keeping some
industries, namely agriculture, textiles and light manufacturing, competitive.
They also pay rent, buy movie tickets, eat at restaurants, pay gasoline taxes
and more.

Even deeper than the myth of welfare abuse is the delusion that illegal
immigration is a matter of border security, document fraud and other
non-economic causes.

The truth is that the government merely slaps the wrists of farmers, restaurant
owners, affluent couples and others who hire farmhands, dishwashers and nannies.
These are the businesses and people who want to keep the full advantages they
gain from the cheap employment of illegal immigrants or because there aren't
enough citizens workers to go around. For all his conservative posturing, Pete
Wilson did not pay employer taxes on an illegal maid in his San Diego home until
her employment was revealed years later.

In the spirit of fairness, I know of people employed by this newspaper who hire
or benefit from the work of illegal workers. At least one writer has one come in
twice a month to clean his apartment. Another writer hired an undocumented nanny
for her two little girls. Neither of these middle-class professionals has
written personal checks to California to help cover the public costs associated
with illegal immigration.

OK, so most non-yuppie Californians aren't such hypocrites. They don't employ
Mexican maids or own lucrative strawberry fields in Salinas. It's true, however,
that the average Californian would rather not clean toilets for a living as
illegal immigrants are glad to do. There isn't one school in the entire nation
that intentionally educates any American child to become a toilet scrubber. And
if there were, the principal would be fired on the spot and given a broom.

How about giving those hard, low-paying jobs to chronic welfare recipients? Nice
thought, but they wouldn't last a week. As a Columbia University study proved,
most chronic welfare recipients are too messed up emotionally or physically to
handle hard work. Besides, what yuppie Palo Alto couple needing a nanny for
their kids is going to hire a former welfare mom who just got out of alcohol and
drug rehab?

If anyone has a real gripe about illegal immigrants, it's the legal immigrants
who stood in line, followed all the rules and are more likely to compete with
them for menial jobs.

In short, illegal immigration is a problem but it's not a threat. The new INS
report doesn't alter that reality.

We'll never completely stop illegal immigration because we now live in a time
when everything crosses national borders - money, political influence,
technology, diseases, movies and ideas.

But we can control illegal immigration and reduce it to a trickle. The trick is
to to legalize the workers who fill the gaps in our labor force.

Since 50 to 60 percent of illegal immigrants who are arrested are Mexican,
cutting a deal with Mexico to legalize these workers would eliminate a lot of
the "illegal alien" problem. Mexican workers will continue coming here despite
Proposition 187 and other anti-immigrant measures, because jobs are waiting for
them, employers are happy to hire them, they work really hard, and because
Mexico's economy can't grow fast enough to keep them home.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 12, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FIND A NEW ROUTE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 70 words


The fertile farmland of the Imperial Valley has been inundated in recent weeks
with illegal immigrants looking for an easier way to enter the United States
than through San Diego County. In February, Border Patrol agents assigned to the
Calexico office detained a record 10,664 illegal immigrants. Apprehensions were
up by 233 percent during the first five days of March over the same period last
year, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 27, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL OPTS OUT OF POLICE RAIDS OF GANG PREMISES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 308 words

DATELINE: SIMI VALLEY


The U.S. Border Patrol has announced it no longer will join police during
probation searches of gang members' homes to scoop up illegal immigrants.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is "taking a step back and evaluating
this," said Alan Dwelley, assistant chief of the INS for Northern and central
California.

Apparently a Carter administration official barred agents from joining police
raids. The policy wasn't rediscovered until recently, when an INS lawyer came
across it while preparing to defend the agency against a lawsuit filed by
someone caught up in a raid several years ago by the INS and police in Tulare
County.

Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Simi Valley, accused the Border Patrol of caving in to
political pressure that followed a highly publicized Jan. 23 raid in which the
congressman took part and which resulted in the arrests of 20 illegal
immigrants. The INS oversees the Border Patrol.

"It's consistent with the INS policy of coddling criminal aliens," said
Gallegly, who has defended the Border Patrol's practice of taking part in police
searches.

"It's the federal government's responsibility to enforce our immigration laws,
and it's the Simi Valley Police Department's responsibility . . . to keep the
peace in their jurisdiction," Gallegly said. "Now the federal government is
saying, 'We're not even going to help the police department to do the job, to
help with the problems that they're responsible for having created."

Simi Valley police Capt. Richard Wright declined to comment.

City council members said Tuesday they want to keep the INS involved in the
surprise gang sweeps because they often snare illegal immigrants who are
contributing to gang violence in one of the nation's safest cities.

Latino activists have called the practice of combined raids illegal and the
council racist.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 17, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OUT OF U.S. DEATH ROW, MEXICAN GOES HOME ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT FREED AFTER 13 YEARS

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico


An illegal immigrant from Mexico jailed for almost 14 years on death row in a
Texas prison returned to Mexico a free man Wednesday and received a hero's
welcome.

"I'm happy, but I'm also annoyed because they stole 15 years of my life,"
Ricardo Aldape Guerra said on the steps of a Mexican government plane that flew
him to his hometown, Monterrey.

About 200 well-wishers cheered Aldape Guerra, 35, who several times was just
hours from execution for the slaying of a Houston police officer he says he did
not kill.

Crowds had waited since Tuesday night to welcome him home, and the government of
his home state of Nuevo Leon had offered to fly a plane to Houston to pick him
up after a U.S. judge dropped the murder charge against him.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said Aldape Guerra would be
treated like any other illegal immigrant and he was whisked to the border in a
blue sedan by immigration agents as soon as he was freed.

Aldape Guerra, who crossed into Matamoros, Mexico, from Brownsville, told
reporters that "no money" would repay him for the years spent on death row.

"Why would I want money?" he replied to reporters in Matamoros who asked him if
he would demand compensation from the U.S. justice system.

Aldape Guerra, who came to the United States illegally in 1982, has always
insisted on his innocence. "I never committed any crime," he told Mexico's
Televisa news network Wednesday.

Aldape Guerra's nightmare ended after Harris County District Attorney Johnny
Holmes said Tuesday that he would drop the murder charge against him and not
seek a new trial.

Holmes told reporters that a judge's decision earlier this week to throw out six
key prosecution witnesses for lack of credibility had made it impossible to
retry the case.

Aldape Guerra was convicted in October 1982 and sentenced to death for the
killing of Houston police officer James Harris during a routine traffic stop.

Aldape Guerra contended from the beginning that an acquaintance, Roberto
Carrasco Flores, shot Harris. In 1994, U.S. District Judge Kenneth Hoyt ordered
a new trial because he said police had intimidated witnesses into identifying
Aldape Guerra as the shooter, and prosecutors, in their zeal to avenge a cop's
death, had manipulated evidence to get a conviction.

But Aldape Guerra remained on death row until last August, when a federal
appellate court upheld Hoyt's decision.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A U.S. official removes the handcuffs from Ricardo Aldape Guerra.
[970417 FR 18A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   APRIL 17, 1997 Thursday PENINSULA EDITION

WORKER SCREENING PLAN FAILS

BYLINE: HOLLY A. HEYSER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 696 words


Opponents of illegal immigration are sparking an unusual amount of attention
around an issue that typically escapes public notice -- federal block-grant
allocations. But they fell short of their goal late Tuesday to persuade Mountain
View officials to refuse public money to agencies that don't screen out illegal
immigrants.

About 10 people from Mountain View and surrounding communities urged the city
council to require social-service agencies receiving $1.4 million in federal
block grants and $120,000 in city funds to screen their clients. The idea was to
make sure no taxpayers' money serves anyone who's in the country illegally.

But twice as many people stood up against their demand -- not just service
providers, but two illegal immigrants and several people who had nothing to do
with the grant process.

"If we have to screen 7,000 clients a year before we serve them, we will serve
fewer people," said Carol Torgrimson, who is on the board of the Community
Services Agency. "I ask you not to give in to the dark side."

Once the city council's attorney assured members they wouldn't be violating any
laws by not requiring screening, the council didn't even discuss the
possibility.

That gives Immigration Control Advocates of Silicon Valley -- the group that
spearheaded the effort -- one win and one loss in its effort to fight illegal
immigration by trying to cut off public money for illegal immigrants.

In January, members of the group convinced the El Camino Hospital District board
to end a grant to a center that serves day laborers -- primarily immigrants --
in Mountain View and Los Altos. Center operators freely admitted that they
didn't screen clients.

Makes discovery
In that case, though, the hospital board discovered it may have been violating a
state law prohibiting spending public money on job services for illegal
immigrants. The Mountain View City Council didn't have the same concern.

"We have pretty straightforward guidelines from the government about what we're
required to ask," Mayor Joe Kleitman said Wednesday.

In fact, he said, many of the services the city funded Tuesday are emergency
services for which clients can't be screened. "Agencies can lose their license
for asking those kinds of questions," he said. "It's like calling an ambulance
-- the ambulance driver can't ask."

The debate represents the clash between two competing ethics: one that holds
that society should help the needy based on need alone, and another that holds
government money shouldn't be used to help people who are violating the law.

"If someone escapes from Vacaville (the medical correctional facility), you
don't give him a sack of clothes, some food and a place to stay," said Jay
Strassmeyer, a member of ICA. "We can't have one law one way and another law the
other."

But Kleitman said it was very telling that opponents of screening outnumbered
supporters so dramatically.

New effort planned
ICA members plan to repeat the effort in coming weeks with the San Jose and
Sunnyvale city councils and the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors.

While the tactic is new for this group, it's much like what Proposition 187 set
out to do -- deny government-funded services such as education and health care
to illegal immigrants statewide. That law has been tied up in the courts since
voters passed it in 1994.

ICA's approach ferrets out similar spending at the local level and pressures
local politicians -- generally more accessible to their constituents than state
and federal representatives -- to cut it off.

In some cases, agencies already are screening for illegal immigrants because
federal regulations require it for certain types of funds. That's the case with
the MidPeninsula Housing Coalition in Redwood City, which received the largest
share of funds from Mountain View Tuesday -- an $864,062 grant.

In other cases, though, screening could prove difficult. "Most homeless
mentally-ill people don't carry identification with them, so we don't screen
them," said Michael Hollingshead of the Alliance for Community Care, which
received $6,405 in federal funds from the city Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 22, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE FEDS, NOT CITIES, SHOULD HANDLE ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 540 words


NO doubt about it, the failure of the federal government to reduce illegal
immigration is a problem. Still, federal problems require federal solutions.
Bringing local governments into the immigration fray will only create more
problems than it solves.

The Mountain View City Council made the right call last week when it rejected a
demand to deny funding to any community groups or agencies that don't screen out
illegal immigrants. Immigration Control Advocates of Silicon Valley, which
sought the policy, had scored a minor victory earlier this year by frightening
the El Camino Hospital board from supporting a hiring center for day laborers.
This group plans to try again soon with the San Jose and Sunnyvale city councils
and with the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors.

Cutting off agencies that knowingly or unknowingly serve the undocumented has a
commonsense ring to many people. It's impossible to dispute that cities and
counties foot some of the bill for education, health and social services to
illegal immigrants.

But the best research to date shows that illegal immigrants, when you count
their taxes and economic productivity, aren't a drain on public services.
Illegal immigration is a problem, but it's not a threat that justifies draconian
measures. Targeting community agencies is bad public policy.

Enforcing the ban actually would create new problems for local governments and
communities. Driving illegal immigrants further underground would only undermine
public safety and health efforts. An illegal immigrant with contagious
tuberculosis would be afraid to seek medical help. An illegal immigrant who
witnessed a drug deal or murder down the street would be afraid to cooperate
with the police.

At the same time, a cut-off of funds would poison relations with the same
community agencies that county and state governments contract with to deliver
basic social services, including services connected with the all-important
welfare reform. If those agencies are ruled out for government contracts, who
will provide services to needy citizens?

There are the usual questions of basic civil liberties and constitutionality. If
city workers and agencies tried to ferret out illegal immigrants, without
getting enormous additional resources to do the job well, they'd be bound to
reject some people who merely look or sound suspicious.

But it should never come to that. No one yet has given local governments
authority over immigration policy. This is the flaw that has Proposition 187
tied up in court.

The real solutions to illegal immigration lie in recognizing that it is a
federal law-enforcement problem and a complex labor problem. We should secure
the border, but not militarize it. We should hunt illegal immigrants suspected
of committing crimes, but not conduct mass raids on workplaces that will
infringe on the rights of citizens. We should crack down on employers who
recruit and exploit undocumented workers.

And here's an idea worth discussing: More visas for low-skilled foreign workers,
especially from Mexico, who can fill the low-wage jobs that the American
workforce doesn't want. People are coming here to fill a market demand. Find a
way to help them do it legally.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 21, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BEATING VICTIMS SETTLE CIVIL RIGHTS SUIT TWO WILL DIVIDE $740,000 AWARD IN
RIVERSIDE COUNTY INCIDENT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Two illegal immigrants beaten by Riverside County sheriff's deputies after a
freeway chase will split a $740,000 settlement, lawyers said Friday.

Alicia Sotero Vasquez and Enrique Funes Flores will receive $370,000 each. The
payments settle a federal civil rights lawsuit filed against the county and the
deputies on their behalf by several civil rights groups.

A state suit also will be dropped.

The county did not admit wrongdoing but the settlement "delivers an unmistakable
message that in this country we do not enforce our immigration laws by means of
hard batons and racial epithets," said Mark Rosenbaum, legal director of the
American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California.

"I am pleased that this long ordeal is over, and I hope that no other individual
-- citizen or non-citizen -- will ever have to endure the brutality and
indignity that I suffered," Sotero said in a statement.

The Riverside County Sheriff's Department referred calls to John Porter, an
attorney who handled the matter for the county. He did not immediately return a
phone call seeking comment.

However, he told The Press-Enterprise of Riverside on Thursday that the
settlement "in no way mandates any change in policy or procedure, and there was
no promise that we would do it voluntarily."

The beatings occurred April 1, 1996, after sheriff's deputies and California
Highway Patrol officers chased a pickup truck carrying 19 illegal immigrants
from Temecula to South El Monte.

TV news helicopters videotaped a deputy shoving the woman face-first into the
hood of the truck, then grabbing her by the hair and pulling her to the ground,
where she was repeatedly clubbed.

The man also was clubbed.

Deputy Tracy Watson, who had been on the job for five years, was fired for his
conduct after the pursuit. Deputy Kurt Franklin, a 20-year veteran, was
suspended and reassigned.

CHP Officer Jim Byers was reprimanded for using racial epithets during the
operation.

The driver of the truck fled but later was captured. Rigoberto Sosa-Padilla, 37,
was found guilty of transporting illegal immigrants and in April was sentenced
to 37 months in prison.

Both beating victims said they want to return to Mexico, although they remain in
Southern California in case they are needed as witnesses in a potential civil
rights case, Rosenbaum said.

A federal grand jury convened in August to consider the case has called 200
witnesses to testify. But no indictments have been brought.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 26, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPOSAL THREATENS CITIZENSHIP STATUS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 74 words


Seeking to slow illegal immigration, a California lawmaker proposed denying
citizenship to U.S.-born babies of illegal immigrants. Critics of the proposal,
unveiled by Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-San Diego, termed it unconstitutional and an
attack on civil liberties. But Bilbray said the 131-year-old policy of granting
citizenship to anyone born on U.S. soil is inherently unfair to the millions who
wait legally for years to obtain citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WASHINGTON NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 3, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LETTERS ARROGANT AMERICANS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 928 words


ELEANOR K. Prager thinks a law should be passed requiring all immigrants to
study English when they enter the country because she is beginning to feel like
a foreigner in her native country (Letters, June 24).

I have experienced this self-righteous attitude lots of times over the years and
would be willing to bet that she is one these people who, when traveling to a
foreign country, expect the natives to accommodate her in English.

Americans are probably the laziest people on earth when it comes to learning a
foreign language. I used to work for the U.S. military in Europe, as a German
civilian, and was amazed how little interest most Americans showed in learning
the native language, even though they usually were stationed there at least two
years.

In fact, they were arrogant enough to expect the local shopkeepers to speak
English and were rather indignant when they could not.

I honestly think that most immigrants try to learn English and shouldn't be put
down by people who probably never even tried to learn another language and have
no appreciation of the difficulty involved, especially for an older person.
- Gisela Frehe
Sunnyvale
PHONY FLAG DISPLAY
I HAVE always been irritated when I see the flag flying outside a car dealership
or a fast food joint. I believe this is more an attention-getting ploy than a
display of patriotism. Convention holds that the flag either be taken down
during darkness or properly illuminated. I have observed that at many
establishments it flies day and night, rain or shine, and sometimes in tatters.

On June 26 President Clinton ordered that the flag be flown at half-staff for
four days starting June 27, in honor of those who died during the Dhahran
bombing. At approximately 20 of the above mentioned establishments I observed
only one flag flown at half-staff on June 27.

I feel that if these self-proclaimed patriots do not understand proper flag
etiquette or do not choose to comply with a presidential order then they should
not fly the flag at all - ever.

- Doug Ryan
Santa Clara
AUTISTIC KIDS NO THREAT
BEING the 14-year-old sister of a five-year-old autistic girl, I think the media
have portrayed autistic children as harmful to others (News story, June 27).

Having five years of experience with an autistic child, I will say they act
differently and do different things, but my sister has never been a danger to
others. The event that occurred is unusual and tragic, but it is extremely rare
for an autistic child to harm others and the public needs to realize this.

- Katie Bohannon
Los Gatos
POINTLESS BASHING
FOR the past few years, dirt-digging Republicans have spent much of their time
and energy trying to create a scandal big enough to bring down the Clinton
administration. Unfortunately for them, the Republicans haven't been able to
uncover the sort of big-time wrongdoings like Watergate or Iran-Contra.

So, finding the Democratic White House relatively clean, they've resorted to
sniping at it on smaller issues like Whitewater, a small land deal in which the
Clintons ended up losing money, or Hillary having an imaginary talk with Eleanor
Roosevelt.

Leonard Larsen's Thursday column shows just how ridiculous the conservative
attempt to smear Clinton has become (Commentary, June 27).

He says that a good example of what he claims is a White House "culture of lies"
is a remark made by Clinton adviser George Stephanopoulos last month, in which
Stephanopoulos told the folks in Craig Livingstone's hometown that Livingstone
"did a terrific job." Since then Livingstone, who was a White House employee,
has had to resign for suspected wrongdoing. So now conservative commentators
like Larsen are claiming Stephanopoulos' remark was a lie and a coverup. What
nonsense. Praising a co-worker to his family and friends is common politeness,
not a lie.

It's about time Clinton-bashers stopped inventing frivolous accusations and
started showing some concern for the good of this country.

- Jennifer L. Green
San Jose
SAVE THE JOSE THEATER
IF the San Jose City Council and developer James Fox want the facade of a
downtown theater for a new multi-story apartment complex, I think they have
erred in selecting the historic Jose Theater.

The Jose Theater is a living testament to the great entertainers of the early
1900s. Charlie Chaplin and Al Jolson graced that stage. We should preserve the
beauty and legacy of our historic buildings. I suggest instead that Council
members and Fox look at the facade of the new United Artists Pavilion Theater
for their apartment complex. The Pavilion Theater is a dying testament to the
mediocre politicians of the late 1900s. Pauly Shore and Charlie Sheen play to
halls of seats almost as empty as the Jose Theater. The Council members should
get one downtown city block done well before they decimate the historical value
of another.

- Rocio Lovelace
Santa Clara
SUE THE LOTTERY
THE state Keno game is history.

It was ruled illegal by the State Supreme Court, even though the game has been
played for several years with the knowledge of the State Lottery Commission.
This was an illegal gambling enterprise.

The State Lottery Commission admits this by their defacto admission that the
revenues were not projected into their forth coming budget.

Being that this was a criminal conspiracy and an illegal game, the players of
this game are entitled to their money back.

I certainly hope that a class action suit will be filed against the California
State Lottery.

- Tom K. Sullivan
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters, E-mail & Faxes

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: SCOTT WILLIS, Mercury News Editorial Cartoonist
[960703 ED 7B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 3, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT ASPIRATION GAP FOUND 2 STUDIES: SCHOOL MOTIVATION DIFFERENCES MOST
STRIKING AMONG LATINOS

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 777 words


Immigrant children in the United States are more motivated to get an education
than their native-born peers and more likely to continue school all the way
through college, according to a pair of studies being released today.

This aspiration gap between immigrant and native-born Latinos is the most
striking and is three times greater than the gap between immigrant and
native-born students in other ethnic and racial groups, according to a study
published by the Santa Monica-based Rand Corp.

The lower goals of native-born Latinos translate into lower educational
achievement, said the report, an analysis of census data and information from a
survey of 21,000 10th- and 12th-graders by Rand researchers Georges Vernez and
Allan Abrahamse. This achievement gap, plus the lower education levels, job
skills and incomes of adult Latino immigrants, leads to a persistent pattern of
lower wages, according to a separate study of U.S. Census data by Vernez, Robert
Schoeni and Kevin F. McCarthy.

The researchers reported that immigrant children of every ethnicity and race who
enter the country at a young age are almost as likely as their native-born peers
to enroll in school. And if they stay through high school, they are actually
more likely than native-born youngsters to remain in school all the way through
four continuous years of college.

If they get that far, the better-educated immigrants are more likely to get
better jobs. Mexican immigrants who were educated in the United States went to
school almost twice as many years as Mexicans who immigrated after they already
had left school. These U.S.-educated immigrants then earned about 30 percent
more than their Mexican-educated peers.

"It really shows that investing in immigrant education actually has a strong
payback," said Raul Hinojosa, an international economics professor at UCLA and
longtime Proposition 187 opponent. "The notion that because there is a bunch of
immigrants there's going to be a disastrous future for the state is clearly
disproved by this research."

The studies come at a time when the numbers of Latino students in U.S. schools
have been rising because of immigration and local population growth.

One in 10 high school students nationwide is of Latino origin, about the same
size as the nation's black high school population. In California, Latino-origin
students account for one of every three high school students and could make up
about half the high school student population in less than 10 years.

The studies corroborate other research that has found that many Latino
immigrants arrive lagging other immigrants in education and income. A large
percentage of new immigrants from Mexico and Central America come from families
with low incomes and education levels, said Martin Carnoy, a Stanford education
professor.

The Rand studies show that many Latino immigrants just never catch up
economically.

The incomes of Japanese, Korean and Chinese immigrants - who generally arrived
with more education - started lower than whites but then caught and surpassed
them nationally. European immigrants earned the same incomes as native whites.
The incomes of Latino immigrants, who generally arrived with less education in
their backgrounds, started lower and stayed dramatically lower.

Immigrants from Mexico were found to fare the worst in school enrollment and in
wage parity with native-born Americans.

"We have an economy that increasingly is asking for more educated people, but we
are moving in opposite directions," said Vernez, director of Rand's Center for
Research on Immigration Policy.

One group that fell seriously behind was Latino immigrants who arrived in this
country after age 15 or so, having stopped their education or having dropped out
of regular school in their home countries.

They were less likely to enroll in U.S. high school - or to finish - than
children who arrived earlier.

"These youths are not just dropouts from U.S. schools; rather, they are failing
to 'drop in' to the school system in the first place," the study said.

The never-dropped-in youths numbered about 37,000 nationwide and about 25,000 in
California, or 2 percent of high school-age youths in the state. The number is
growing rapidly, leaving hundreds of thousands of young adults without a
complete high school education and with a correspondingly lower chance of
getting good jobs as adults.

CHART: KARL KAHLER - MERCURY NEWS
More immigrants go to college...
[960703 LO 4B 1; vbar]
CHART: KARL KAHLER - MERCURY NEWS
...and many earn more than natives
[960703 LO 4B 2; fever]

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Charts (2)

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 8, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMAGINE A FUTURE WITHOUT BORDERS

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 443 words


ALONG THE Mexican border from California to South Texas, America's old
melting-pot ideal just doesn't work. Something new is happening between the
peoples of the Southwest, and "Lone Star," a new film by John Sayles, offers a
refreshing look.

Sayles is one of the few film makers independent and gutsy enough to point his
cameras at racial conflicts between whole peoples, nations or individual men and
women. He knows that our difficulties won't be solved by insisting on a uniform
"American" culture.

Set in Frontera, a small Texas town near the border, "Lone Star" begins with a
skeleton in the desert and then points to skeletons in our collective closet.
The movie uses the investigation of a 40-year-old murder to explore immigration,
education, racism and political power.

Everybody in the film has a historical gripe and desperate claim on the present
and future. Unwilling to be just another minority, whites want to remain the
dominant culture. As Mexican Americans grow in numbers and ascend to power, they
struggle with their own mixed feelings toward Mexican immigrants and blacks. The
town's blacks root themselves in Texas through their Indian blood. And the
film's lone Native American prefers a lonely existence in the confused
mixed-race world to the stifling politics of the reservation.

As the murder investigation develops, Sayles tells us that we are all
assimilating into something, but the process or the result won't be familiar to
Americans.

"Lone Star" makes it clear that the Southwest is where two great populations,
one white, one brown, are converging in an ancient land. The old, one-sided game
of assimilation is gone. We are all assimilating into something, but the center
of that cultural matrix is becoming more brown and less white. Plus, Native and
African Americans are part of the equation, even if uneasily.

Still, this movie is too mature to be heavy sociology. It's about real people in
this land and their struggle to be individuals and members of a group at the
same time. Of course, we are both and we'll always be both until Utopia arrives.
What's different today is that no one group in the Southwest can dominate as
before. That sort of uneasy equality isn't perfect, but it gets us closer to
getting along together.

"Lone Star" is an anti-border movie. It's about people questioning and crossing
the national, personal and racial borders we draw between us. It asks us to
ponder a radical future in which individuals and group cultures exist, blend and
flourish without borders or demands for suffocating uniformity. Five hundred
years later, the New World is still a work in progress.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Personal View
Joe Rodriguez is a Mercury News editorial writer whose family has lived on the
U.S. side of the border with Mexico for more than 100 years.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JULY 10, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 199 words


Delta Air Lines advised its pilots to take off more slowly to reduce engine
stress after investigators said a crack in a refurbished metal part may have
caused an engine to rip apart in Pensacola, Fla., Saturday, killing two
passengers.
* The NAACP went on the Internet on Tuesday, opening a home page on the World
Wide Web, the graphics portion of the global computer network.
* Ex-nurse's aide John Horace, 52, was charged in Rochester, N.Y., with raping a
comatose woman, 30, who gave birth normally March 18 to a boy. It was the first
known case of a woman becoming pregnant and giving birth while in a chronic
vegetative state. Horace could get up to 32 years in prison.
* In San Diego, Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris
Meissner defended the administration's strategy to deter illegal immigration in
the face of criticism from Border Patrol agents who said the policy is
ineffective and deceitful.
* The prosecution rested in the Whitewater trial in Little Rock of two Arkansas
bankers. Herby Branscum and Robert Hill are charged with conspiring to use their
bank's money to pay for contributions by themselves and others to Arkansas
politicians.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 15, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHAT'S IN A NAME? IMMIGRANTS GAIN AND LOSE WHEN WHAT THEY ARE CALLED IS CHANGED
IN POLYGLOT AMERICA

BYLINE: DE TRAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 825 words


EVERY year, when the new San Jose telephone book arrives, I check to see how
many De Trans are listed. This year there are six.

A quick search on the World Wide Web turned up 27 other De Trans listed
somewhere in the United States. Colorado, Florida, Oklahoma, Nevada and
Washington listed one each; Louisiana, Massachusetts, New York and Virginia
boasted two. California, not surprisingly, leads with 14 De Trans. Not bad for a
name I acquired by accident.

My name actually is Tran Thanh Do. But when our family came to the United
States, officials misspelled it as Tran Thanh De.

Still, De is a good name. It's versatile. De is a preposition in French and
Spanish. And De is "Ed" spelled backward. In fact, De Tran spelled backward is
Ed Nart.

American immigration history is replete with misspelled names. My friend,
Timothy Patrick Goodman, said immigration officials botched it so badly that his
grandfather was given the surname Goodman when he arrived to New York City
around the turn of the century. And that, he said, was how a freckled-faced,
red-haired Irish lad - "Opie" to his friends - inherited a Jewish last name.

Living in a new country involves more than just adapting to a new environment, a
new language, a new culture. It also involves having one's name altered,
mispronounced. It sometimes means dropping the accent marks that accompanied
one's name since birth.

German names lose their umlauts; Latinos drop their tildes; Chinese, Japanese
and Koreans change their names to conform with English phonetics. Vietnamese
eliminate their accent marks.

Sometimes, the very order of one's name is reversed.

My current name, for example, would be Tran De in Vietnam. In the United States,
after much confusion, almost all Vietnamese immigrants adapt the Western
standard by putting their surname last and their given name first. Many also
drop their middle name to cut down on potential misspellings.

That was how the already-modified Tran Thanh De became De Tran. At least six De
Trans in Santa Clara County had the same idea. Once I applied for a loan and
freaked out when the TRW credit report showed that I owed Emporium Capwell
$10,000. It was another De Tran.

Tran is a common Vietnamese last name, much more prevalent than Smith or Garcia
in the United States. But Tran is nothing compared to Nguyen - by far the most
dominant surname. Nguyen is to Vietnamese last names what Microsoft is to the
computing world. The Nguyens occupy seven pages in the San Jose phone book.

While the following analysis is not exactly scientific, it offers a picture of
the dominance of Nguyens, the No. 1 surname of homeowners in Santa Clara County.
Take the current numbers of Nguyens, Smiths and Garcias in the San Jose phone
book, compare them to the 1990 census, and this is what you get: The Nguyens
would make up 6.5 percent of the Vietnamese-American population in San Jose and
Santa Clara, while Smiths would only comprise 0.2 percent of whites and Garcias
0.4 percent of Latinos. And that doesn't even take into account the higher
average household density of Vietnamese families.

The popularity of the Nguyen name has its roots in centuries of imperial
Vietnamese history.

The original boundaries of Vietnam included only the northern part of today's
Vietnam. A warlord named Nguyen Hoang conquered what is now southern Vietnam.
Many of the Nguyens were the descendants of Nguyen Hoang, said Nguyen Van Dai, a
San Francisco poet. King Bao Dai, Vietnam's last emperor, was a descendant of
Nguyen Hoang, Dai said.

In old Vietnamese society, Dai said, if someone contributed to the court, the
emperor allowed that person to adopt the royal last name, a practice much like
being knighted.

There are other historical reasons for the prevalence of the Nguyen name. During
the Tran Dynasty in the 11th to 13th centuries, many of the families of the
prior dynasty courtesans - the Lys - changed their name to Nguyen to avoid
persecution.

Today, Nguyen is easily the most popular surname in Vietnam as well as among
Vietnamese living in the United States.

Writer Nguyen Qui Duc recalled in an interview that one Vietnamese New Year he
was in Singapore, where there are few Vietnamese residents. Homesick, he called
up all the Nguyens in the Singaporean directory and wished them a happy new
year. One family invited him to join them for the holidays.

Duc, too, recalled the time he was living in Sacramento. He was surprised to
find that some of the Vietnamese there had first names like Francisco and Juan.
It turned out that they were advised to pick an American names when they became
naturalized. They decided to choose the names of their American neighbors, who
were mostly Latinos.

In polyglot America, perhaps names like Francisco Tran or Daniel Nguyen or
Timothy Patrick Goodman won't seem odd at all. Perhaps one day, they'll be as
American as apple pie - or at least apple strudel.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: Illustrations, Matt Petty - MERCURY NEWS
[960715 LI 1C 1; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JULY 17, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COLIN MARTIN WARNES, ATTORNEY AND PATRON OF THE ARTS IN S.J.

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 813 words


Colin Martin Warnes sat and listened while one immigrant after another sought
his assurance.

As a naturalized U.S. citizen, he knew.

On that May day in 1988, each applicant had a matter of hours before a midnight
deadline would end the opportunity to gain immigration amnesty.

As an immigration lawyer, he could explain. He was also working pro bono - in
other words, for free.

Mr. Warnes did a lot of pro bono work as a San Jose lawyer, friends and
associates said, before his death during cancer treatment at age 57 on Friday in
an Oakland hospital.

"The last priority in his life was money," said his wife, Victoria. When she
asked him why he would not bill some of his clients, why he didn't pursue
collection when he did, he would say:

"They probably don't have the money. If they could pay, they would."

Colin Warnes faced the dilemma of all self-employed professionals serving
immigrants, said Jim McEntee, Santa Clara County human relations director. The
hardest thing is sending out the bills, he said. "It's one of the things you
probably have to overcome."

Mr. Warnes was valuable as an adviser, especially in the middle '80s, McEntee
said, when the human relations commission needed help on immigration matters:
"He was always available to come to a meeting. When people get together, they
need the legal expertise. He was the type of guy who would say, 'This isn't
going to work.' "

An immigrant himself

He had had relevant experience from his early teen years, when he immigrated to
the United States from England and settled in Utah. He earned a degree from the
University of Utah and then went to work for the U.S. Foreign Service, working
in the U.S. consulate in Hamburg, Germany, and then with the consulate in
Newfoundland, Canada. Along the way, he learned to speak German and Spanish and
a bit of French.

In 1974, Mr. Warnes came to Santa Clara County and began working for the Legal
Aid Society and studying at Lincoln Law School at night. After obtaining his law
degree and passing the bar, he opened his own office and practiced on North
First Street in San Jose.

"He was a professionally and socially compassionate attorney who would not
refuse to represent anybody," said Howard May, a lawyer serving workers injured
on the job, who shared the office with Mr. Warnes. "He took in clients of all
economic strata," May said, agreeing that Mr. Warnes was never interested much
in money, more in service.

He was, however, interested in just about everything else, May said. "He had an
encyclopedic mind, an unbelievable thirst for knowledge."

Arts, birds and music

Olga Enciso-Smith learned that at her Machu Picchu Galleria of the Americas. Mr.
Warnes became a patron of the arts, she said, collecting ethnic folk masks from
all over the world and serving as a board member of the Culture Center of the
Americas in San Jose.

He was a bird-watcher who was on the board of the Youth Science Institute.

To the Hispanic Cultural Committee, he could give a lecture on Andean music; he
was a board member of the Flamenco Society of San Jose.

And he was in his 50s when Victoria Yazdankhah came to his office looking for
help.

As an office manager for an Iranian cement factory, she traveled a lot. She had
a friend in San Francisco and relatives in the United States. She applied for a
visa and got one.

"It's something you do," she said. "Everybody in Iran wants to come to America."

So she came, and then she wanted to stay. Without a work permit, she took a job.

Now she needed documentation, a green card. Could he help, she asked.

" 'You need to marry an American citizen. This is an option,' he said, but you
have to see him. You have to know him; he was shy; he said, 'You could marry me.
I'm an American citizen.' "

And she did, after a sly courtship that included her being always scheduled as
his last legal appointment of the day. "He'd say, 'I can give you a ride home,'
and then he'd ask, 'Have you eaten? Let's get something.' "

Victoria Yazdankhah became Victoria Warnes in 1992, just about the time Colin
Warnes learned he had liver cancer. He took chemotherapy.

Sheila Warnes was born in October 1993, Colin Jr. in December 1994.

Worked despite cancer

Mr. Warnes kept working. "You have no idea," his wife said. "We would go
together. He would have chemo. Then he would go to work. I didn't know how he
could do that."

Colin Warnes was a devoted husband and father during the last months of his
life, said Howard May. He had two sessions of chemotherapy during the four years
he struggled with the disease, and then just last week went back for more
treatment.

Victoria Warnes was unprepared for his death, she said. "It wasn't supposed to
be now."

"He was so handsome, so elegant, so gentle," she said. "You have no idea. How
could all these good things gather in one human being?"

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: * Born: Dec. 9, 1938, Bradford, Yorkshire, England.
* Died: July 12, 1996, Oakland, Calif.
* Survived by: Wife, Victoria Yazdankhah Warnes; children, Sheila Bertha Warnes
and Colin Martin Warnes Jr., all of Campbell; parents, Arthur and Bertha Warnes
of Salt Lake City; sisters, Ann Yuill of Madison, Wis., Linda Moyes of
Evergreen, Colo., Kathleen Atencio of West Valley, Utah; brother, Roger of
Ogden, Utah.
* Services: Funeral at 1:30 p.m. today at Darling-Fischer Chapel of the Hills,
615 N. Santa Cruz Ave., Los Gatos, Calif. 95032; burial in Los Gatos Memorial
Park, San Jose.
* Memorial: Donations may be made to a trust established for Mr. Warnes'
children, c: o Victoria Warnes at the mortuary.OBITUARIES

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [Colin Martin Warens]
[960717 LO 5B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 27, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GLOBAL EXCHANGE TO GET CLOSE-UP LOOK AT POVERTY IN SALINAS AND WATSONVILLE
'REALITY TOUR' FINDS TROUBLE CLOSE TO HOME

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 397 words


These well-to-do Bay Area lawyers, homemakers and students have toured war-torn
Guatemala, cavorted with Cuba's communists and shaken hands with Haiti's
starving.

But this weekend, the travelers who go on the latest trip sponsored by a
left-leaning, San Francisco-based tour group will journey to the "Salad Bowl of
the World," for up-close encounters with poverty-stricken Mexican migrant
workers in Salinas and Watsonville.

Participants will meet farmworkers, share a meal in a migrant mess hall and
sleep in a moderately priced Santa Cruz motel for a night.

The goal of the $200, two-day trip will be to expose "the miserable conditions .
. . farmworkers endure," said Medea Benjamin, director of Global Exchange, the
tour group.

This is but the first in a series of "Reality Tours" that Global Exchange is
planning for California. Later this year, it plans to take tourists to Northern
California forests to discuss logging, and to the border of California and
Mexico to talk about immigration - including a bonus stop at the Republican
Convention in San Diego.

Global Exchange stores in San Francisco, Berkeley and Mill Valley - which until
now have only sold foreign-made products - also will stock products made by
California cooperatives.

The group expects the California tours to be popular because they are shorter
and one-tenth the cost of similar trips to jungles of Vietnam or the
battle-scarred streets of Northern Ireland. And, the local water won't make you
sick.

Andrea Nichols, 34, of Mill Valley, jumped on the opportunity to take the
Watsonville tour because her pregnancy has grounded her from foreign travels to
the nations of the "developing world."

The former social worker said she wants to gain a better understanding of
farmworkers.

"I'd be interested in learning what the real effects of pesticides are on people
who work with them and people who eat the food," she said.

The trip may seem voyeuristic to some, but Mike Meuter, a California Rural Legal
Assistance lawyer who works with migrant workers in Salinas, said he hopes that
locals won't be offended.

"As long as the people coming from the outside come in with attitudes of respect
and acceptance, and not one of making value judgments, I'm not terribly
concerned," Meuter said.

Benjamin said she hopes others leave the tour with the same impressions she did.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For information about the tours, call Global Exchange at: (415) 255-7296.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 28, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HONDURAS OFFICIAL DENIES ROLE IN PASSPORT SCAM

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 88 words


Honduras' foreign minister, Delmer Urbizo Panting, has denied involvement in a
$15 billion scam that sold some 20,000 Honduran passports to Asian immigrants
trying to sneak into the United States. He called a news conference late Friday
to ward off speculation that he is being eased out of the administration of
President Carlos Roberto Reina. Investigators in Honduras and the United States
say the passports were sold for as much as $100,000 each. to Chinese who hoped
to sneak into the United States from Honduras.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 30, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AN INVITATION TO GO BEYOND THE BORDER SAN DIEGO-TIJUANA: A PARTNERSHIP GROWS
DESPITE ANTI-IMMIGRATION POLITICS

BYLINE: FRANK DEL OLMO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 790 words


The civic leaders who helped lure the 1996 Republican National Convention to San
Diego estimate that it will pump about $100 million into the local economy.
That's not quite as much as the $136 million spent when the 1988 Super Bowl game
was played here, but still a respectable chunk of change.
But the economic activity generated by the GOP and Super Bowl high-rollers
combined pales in comparison to the estimated $2.8 billion pumped into the San
Diego economy every year by some "out-of-towners" that many Americans might
assume aren't too welcome in these parts: Mexicans crossing the border.

Of course, such a stunning statistic requires some explanation to be fully
understood. But that's exactly what the folks who came up with it want
journalists like me to do. That's why they put it into a briefing book on the
San Diego-Tijuana economy prepared for the hordes of journalists who will be
here next month to report on the Republican convention.

The book was produced by the San Diego Dialogue, a think tank affiliated with
the University of California, San Diego. It was created five years ago by San
Diego and Tijuana business leaders to study not just the problems but also the
opportunities facing a rapidly growing metropolitan region that "just happens to
have an international border running through it," in the words of Charles
Nathanson, the sociologist who is executive director of the Dialogue.

Nathanson hopes that at least some of the journalists who file stories about how
GOP politicians like Gov. Pete Wilson and Pat Buchanan helped turn immigration
into a "hot button" issue also try going a few miles south to actually visit the
border - but not before perusing the Dialogue's impressive collection of
information.

Indeed, any journalist who writes about the border just in terms of illegal
immigrants, drugs or other problems is not getting the whole story. Take that
from someone who's been writing about the border on a regular basis since 1973.
The San Diego-Tijuana region has grown to almost 4 million people since then,
and has prospered quite nicely.

Even the border itself is far less violent and far better policed than it has
ever been. But you'd never know it to hear the overheated political rhetoric
about immigration, drugs and other border problems that has hovered over
California the past few years like stagnant air.

That political smog was first generated by a relative handful of single-issue
extremists who decided that illegal immigration was a threat to civilization as
we know it. To hear some of them rant, San Diego would be an earthly paradise if
only it weren't for the hellhole at the southern end of Interstate 5.

At first, only a few loudmouthed radio talk-show hosts gave these
anti-immigration nuts a platform to vent their spleen, adding flaky touches of
their own, like the guy who urged listeners to gather en masse at the border to
pull down their pants and "moon" Tijuana.

But the real damage was done when the immigration issue was blown all out of
proportion by ambitious politicians. Most of them know that San Diego and
Tijuana benefit from each other, but they just couldn't resist pushing a
political hot button that might help them get re-elected.

"The immigration story has contaminated everything else," Nathanson says. "Now
you can hardly even suggest that anything about Mexico is positive for San
Diego."

Like the fact that Tijuana is as solidly middle-class as San Diego (50 percent
of the population of both cities is defined as middle-income). Or the fact that
its maquiladoras, manufacturing plants built on the border for purposes of
international trade, have turned this region into a major manufacturing center.
Those plants even employ 8,000 San Diego County residents who commute southward
across the border every day.

Or the remarkable size of Mexicans' contribution to the San Diego economy. That
$2.8-billion estimate is based on the fact that there were 4 million border
crossings from Baja California into San Diego County every month in 1996, 98
percent of them perfectly legal. And one-quarter of the Mexicans who crossed did
so specifically to shop in the San Diego area.

San Diego and Tijuana are "the mother of all land border ports," says Nathanson,
who points out that the main crossing at San Ysidro is twice as busy as Hong
Kong's. "There are lessons being learned here for the entire border," he adds.
"That's the story the media will see if they look beyond the border fence."

Amen. Here's hoping some of my colleagues who visit next month do take the time
to look beyond not just the fence but (Republicans should pardon the expression)
beyond the conventional wisdom about the border.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Frank del Olmo is a columnist for the Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: MARGARET SCOTT
[960730 ED 7B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 3, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IRAQI WEIGHTLIFTER SAYS ASYLUM GRANTED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 92 words


Iraqi weightlifter Raed Ahmed, who fled from his teammates at the Olympics and
denounced his country's government, said he has been granted political asylum in
the United States.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service refused to confirm or deny the
claim.

A document with INS letterhead, sent by fax to the Associated Press, said that
Ahmed's request for political asylum had been approved. The document was given
to the AP by an Atlanta spokesman for the Iraqi National Congress, an
organization opposed to Saddam Hussein's regime.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CENTENNIAL OLYMPICS
ATLANTA 1996
NOTEBOOK

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Ahmed
[960803 SS 2D 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 5, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WE HAVE A NEW SOCIAL CONTRACT, BUT NO GUARANTEES

BYLINE: JOANNE JACOBS column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 721 words


PREPARE for "Dickensian" poverty, as welfare reform cuts aid to the poor, warns
our Aug. 2 front-page story. But where's Tiny Tim when you need him?

Our model victim was a single mother of four children, who's going to lose
federal aid because she's not a U.S. citizen. "It will hurt my children," she
says - translated from Spanish.

As a taxpayer, I want to know why I'm being asked to support her kids, or to
feel guilty for not supporting her kids. What happened to the kids' father, or
to the sponsor who promised she wouldn't become a public charge? How long has
she been here? How long has she been dependent on federal aid? How many of her
kids are American-born, and therefore eligible for welfare?

Maybe she's a hard-working person with hard luck, but there's nothing to make
the reader think: Gee, that could be me, or that could have been my
great-grandmother when she came over.

The result is to stir up more resentment of legal immigrants, the great majority
of whom are working, paying taxes and supporting themselves, their children and
their elderly family members.

Too many Americans believe that immigrants are, essentially, feckless leeches,
unable to produce anything but children and unwilling to learn English. This
stereotype is the reason the welfare bill slammed immigrants; this stereotype
made it possible for President Clinton to sign it.

Americans think that immigrants have no claim on the generosity of taxpayers,
and that poor people should work.

Americans feel sorry for the children of the poor, and would like to help them.
But not by writing checks to their mothers.

Critics say America is breaking our social contract with the poor. That's true.
The welfare bill ended the entitlement of the poor to aid simply because they're
poor.

But many Americans believe the contract was already broken. Welfare was no
longer temporary aid to help people through hard times; it was funding the
creation of a permanent underclass. Being born into despair, dependency and
lifelong poverty was hurting children. Being trapped on welfare was hurting
their parents.

The new contract says: We pay for training, child care and whatever else you
need to get a job, and you work yourself off welfare. The problem is that the
welfare bill may not provide enough money to keep the taxpayers' side of the
contract.

Nobody knows what will happen, because there are too many variables in the
equation.

It's a good guess that fewer children will be born into poverty. More single
women will be motivated to use birth control if they think there will be little
public support forthcoming. More will choose abortion; probably, more will
choose adoption. But how many? I have no idea, and nobody else does either.

Some welfare mothers will get jobs who otherwise would have spent years on the
dole. Most will go from welfare poor to working poor, and many will need some
aid for years.

That makes the five-year cut-off alarming. What happens to women making a
reasonable effort to work who never acquire the skills to get and keep a steady
job?

We don't know how many kids will need subsidized child care, and how many could
be cared for by relatives.

We don't know how many welfare mothers need drug rehab, or how many kids will
need foster care.

When it comes to immigrants, we don't know how many people now on SSI could be
supported by family members or sponsors. I don't think taxpayers are obliged to
admit immigrants and then put them on the welfare rolls. But there are elderly
and disabled immigrants whose sponsors are dead or disabled. If these people
have no family members able to care for them, what are we going to do? The
choices seem to be: Let them starve, deport 78-year-old widows, or give them
aid.

Maybe private charity will step in. But private charity is going to be asked to
step in all over the place. Charities can help only if Americans give more to
plug the holes in the safety net.

Congress may be trying to end welfare on the cheap, but saving money is not the
primary motivation of Americans when it comes to welfare.

Americans believe one of our core values - self-reliance - is at risk, and say
they're willing to spend more to help poor people move off welfare and into the
workforce. Pity - that Dickensian virtue - doesn't enter into it.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 8, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION ALSO SPLITTING GOP ISSUE IS POTENTIALLY MORE VOLATILE THAN ABORTION,
PARTY ANALYSTS SAY

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 741 words


As the Republican Party revs the motor for its San Diego convention, the loudest
noise is rising from the gear-grinding over abortion. Less noisy, but perhaps
more significant for the party's future, are disagreements over immigration
issues, which analysts say already are costing the Republicans potential votes.

Gov. Pete Wilson and other California architects of the strategy for presumptive
GOP nominee Bob Dole have mapped out a campaign that hits immigration hard,
especially in California.

Immigration is a "defining" issue between Republicans and Democrats, according
to Ken Khachigian, Dole's California strategist.

Khachigian and Wilson already have choreographed a Dole appearance on the
U.S.-Mexican border to endorse national legislation that would allow states to
block undocumented-immigrant children from public schools.

Wilson, Kemp disagree

While most within the party strongly oppose illegal immigration, disagreements
over what to do about it run deep, said Sal Russo, a Sacramento-based GOP
consultant. Wilson, on one side, believes harsh rhetoric will prompt federal
action. Russo, along with moderates such as Jack Kemp, believes harsh rhetoric
will do more harm than good.

"The remedies that are available are ineffectual," he said. "And the damage done
by sending a message of exclusion and division isn't worth what small benefit
there may be."

Still, the party has sided with Wilson, hoping the theme that won him a second
gubernatorial term in 1994 will help Dole bag the state's critical 54 electoral
votes this year.

A subcommittee of the Republican platform committee has approved a plank
denouncing President Clinton for opposing Proposition 187, which sought to bar
undocumented-immigrant children from public schools and public health services.
The draft platform also endorses a constitutional amendment that would deny
automatic citizenship to children born on U.S. soil to non-citizen parents.

Conservatives ascending

The party's cultural conservatives have been on the rise while the party formed
immigration provisions of a welfare-overhaul bill, which passed last week. An
omnibus immigration bill failed to pass before Congress broke for the August
recess, largely because of widespread opposition to a measure that would allow
states to shut out undocumented immigrants from public schools. Republicans had
hoped to parade the bill in San Diego while attacking the Clinton
administration's efforts to block undocumented immigration on the border.

Opponents, arguing that the measure would throw kids on the streets with nothing
to do, marshaled an array of moderate Republicans, including Gov. George W. Bush
of Texas, former President Bush, retired Gen. Colin Powell, and the Republican
governors of New York, New Jersey, Illinois and Massachusetts.

According to analysts, the party's immigration stance is already driving away
Latinos, the nation's fastest-growing minority group. Latinos used to register
about half with the Republican Party and half with the Democrats, according to
Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Center, a Latino public-policy
center in Southern California.

"After Prop. 187, among Latino immigrants, that undecided has been pushed over
to the Democratic column," he said.

Although Republican opposition to the education-for-undocumented immigrants
measure is strongest in high-immigration states, the possible cost among other
immigrant groups is not yet clear. Historically, Cuban- and Chinese-Americans
have voted Republican; Mexican-, Filipino-, and Japanese-Americans have voted
Democratic.

But that, too, may be changing.

"A lot of people who voted Republican in the past are starting to question, to
think, about continuing to vote Republican in the future," said Daphne Kwok,
executive director of the Organization of Chinese Americans. "Especially in
light of what is coming out in the Republican platform."

And then there are Eastern European Catholics in key Central and Northeastern
states. The nation's 50 million to 60 million Catholics tend as a group to vote
conservative, said Rick Swartz, an immigration activist in Washington. But the
Catholic Church opposes and has lobbied heavily against many of the
Republican-sponsored immigration measures.

Virtually no one predicts that immigration is an issue that will swing the
presidential election this year - unless it becomes a closer contest in a few
states.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Pete Wilson and other California strategists have choreographed an
appearance by the GOP nominee on the U.S.-Mexican border to endorse legislation
that would allow states to block illegal-immigrant children from public schools.

[960808 FR 4A 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 10, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REPUBLICAN TICKET'S DISAGREEMENTS ON KEY ISSUES

BYLINE: Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 315 words


Here are some of the areas in which Bob Dole and Jack Kemp have disagreed over
the years:

Immigration - Kemp has been critical of efforts to curb legal immigration,
particularly in California, and argues that by making immigration an
election-year issue, the Republicans risk being viewed as intolerant. Dole backs
modest cuts in legal immigration.

Flat tax - Dole cautiously endorses the flat-tax idea, but has reservations
about ending certain deductions. Kemp is a strong advocate of a flat tax.

Deficit cutting - In 1985, Dole proposed a politically risky $300 billion
package of spending cuts to ease the deficit, and persuaded the Reagan White
House to go along. Kemp and others opposed it, Reagan withdrew his support, and
the bill never became law.

Social Security - During the 1988 Republican primaries, Kemp warned voters that
Dole was a threat to Social Security, saying that he would cut benefits. This
was based, in Kemp's estimation, on Dole's support of a failed budget plan in
1985 that would have frozen cost-of-living increases.

Affirmative action - Kemp supports affirmative action and thinks race is a
legitimate factor in equal employment and economic matters. Dole opposes
affirmative action, and earlier this year backed legislation that would end
federal preferences based on race or sex.

Gun control - Kemp favors a ban on combat-style weapons; Dole opposes it.

Campaign - Kemp has cautioned the Republicans to focus less on President
Clinton, and inject more optimism and humor into the campaign. His views and
criticism have come in the wake of Kemp's endorsement of Steve Forbes during the
Republican primaries, even after Dole had all but clinched the nomination.

Oil imports - In 1987, Kemp criticized Dole for his support for fees on imported
oil. Kemp said oil-import fees would "slow down the economy and increase the
deficit."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: election '96

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 11, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ARE STARTING TO CRACK VALLEY'S GLASS CEILINGS ASIANS RISING TO THE
TOP

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1350 words


When Young Sohn was sent to Korea in 1984 to head operations for Intel Corp.,
businessmen there didn't know what to make of the brash 28-year-old.

"They were shocked and unsure how to deal with me," Sohn said.

Sohn seemed both too American and not American enough. Most puzzling: He was a
Korean immigrant representing a big American high-tech company.

Now 40 and president of the desktop group for Quantum Corp., Sohn remains one of
a handful of immigrants who have made it to the top ranks of a large Silicon
Valley firm as an executive rather than an entrepreneur. In the past, someone
like Sohn most likely would have left to start his own company, but Sohn
represents a new option emerging for Asian immigrants: advancing up the
corporate ladder the way native-born Americans do.

"It's not that easy," Sohn said in an interview at Quantum's Milpitas
headquarters, where his group makes up 80 percent - $3.3 billion - of the disk
drive company's business. "There are not that many role models, and companies
look at management in a different category (than engineers)."

The cross-cultural eddies that executives like Sohn must navigate to get to the
top - and stay there - offer a glimpse into the changes swirling through an
increasingly internationally oriented industry.

For Sohn, that has meant aggressively mastering the art of power politics in a
large American corporation while remaining sensitive to the nuances of the
top-down management styles favored overseas. And for the industry, which has
always drawn its engineering brain power without regard to borders, the
increasing importance of foreign markets has meant a new willingness to consider
immigrants for top executive posts.

Immigrants make up more than 30 percent of high technology's professional ranks
and almost 20 percent of its managers in Santa Clara County. Roughly half of the
foreign-born managers are from Asia, according to census figures analyzed by
Stanford University labor economist Martin Carnoy. But few - probably no more
than a dozen by one estimate - stand in Silicon Valley's top executive ranks,
unless they're also entrepreneurs.

Private business

While the public debate over immigrants has reached shouting levels in the
political arena, promoting immigrants as executives has remained largely a
private business matter, discussed - if at all - sotto voce in the boardrooms of
Silicon Valley.

Herman De Kesel, partner at TASA International, an executive search firm in Palo
Alto, says that emerging global markets, particularly in Asia, are beginning to
change old habits and open executive ranks to immigrants.

"There was a strong prejudice against Asian managers when I got here," said De
Kesel, who has worked in Silicon Valley for 11 years and directs TASA's
information technology business worldwide. "People didn't say it, but I was not
stupid. I could understand and read between the lines of what they were saying.
It was there, no question. Nowadays there's a lot less of it."

The industry abounds with examples of immigrant entrepreneurs: Kenneth Fong,
founder of Clontech Laboratories Inc., a Palo Alto biotechnology firm; David
Lam, Chinese-born founder of Lam Research Corp. and Expert Edge; Chong-Moon Lee,
Korean-born co-founder of Diamond Multimedia Systems Inc.; Wilfred Corrigan,
British-born founder of LSI Logic Corp.; Philippe Kahn of France, who founded
Borland International Inc.; and Vinod Khosla, the Indian-born co-founder of Sun
Microsystems Inc.

Getting ahead

That's a list Bill Ong Hing reels off to make a point about how immigrants -
frustrated by the glass ceiling that kept them out of executive suites - often
find another way to get ahead. Hing directs the immigration practice for Baker &
McKenzie's local law offices. The entrepreneurial drive of Asian immigrants
shaped the subcontracting system that is regarded as one of the key factors in
Silicon Valley's success, he said.

"In Silicon Valley, big companies rely on smaller companies for parts, research
and development and assembly," said Hing. "The subcontractors take some of the
heat from fluctuations in the market. Guess who the subcontractors are? A large
proportion are Asian immigrants. It's analogous to the garment industry."

Not every immigrant, however, is sticking around to follow the entrepreneurial
model. Lucy Li, a principal at Wang & Li Asia Resources, concentrates on placing
bilingual Asians in the Greater China area. Increasingly, that includes
immigrants in high-tech fields who are returning to Asia.

"A lot of the people we see, the candidates from Silicon Valley, have hit the
glass ceiling or feel they are not being fully utilized or challenged here," Li
said. "They're seeking a more dynamic environment."

Recruiters like De Kesel, however, believe traditional barriers are breaking
down and opening executive ranks in major Silicon Valley companies to
immigrants.

"In the valley, I would say there is a certain level of prejudice about certain
nationalities in general, but it breaks down real fast when it comes to
individuals," De Kesel said.

Expanding views

A local high-tech firm, searching for a vice president for its Asian Pacific
division, asked TASA to find an American Caucasian who could leapfrog regional
rivalries. De Kesel asked the company to consider others, too.

"When we presented candidates, we offered three Americans and three Asians," De
Kesel said. "And after the first round of interviews, all three Americans were
dropped from the list."

The most dynamic group of middle managers now preparing for executive level
positions at American high-tech firms are the Chinese, De Kesel said.

"The markets are getting bigger, and understanding of the markets is crucial,"
he said. "We see the Chinese becoming more aggressive. It will be hard for
(others) to keep the top jobs."

Still, most managerial positions for Silicon Valley immigrants tend to be
heading foreign operations, often overseas, De Kesel said.

That's how Sohn built his career - out of the Asian Pacific business for Intel.

In Korea, Sohn made sure his Korean counterparts understood he had the full
backing of the senior managers at Intel - and at the same time, he worked hard
to put his former countrymen at ease. Intel's Korean operations grew 20 times
during the five years Sohn was in charge.

Mom questioned MBA

Sohn trained in electrical engineering at the University of Pennsylvania, but
returned for a master's degree in business administration at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology early in his career when he was drawn to the business
side of operations. His mother, who brought him to America when he was 16, had
doubts.

"My mother said, 'I don't see any Koreans in senior management positions in
American companies. Why would you want to do that?' " Sohn said.

A high percentage of Asian managers leave American companies when they are
brought back to the home office, Sohn said.

"The transition back is very difficult. When you're out there, you're the king
of the local country you handle. Then you come back to corporate headquarters,
and they don't know you, they don't know how to position you. It's a big
emotional letdown."

Sohn weathered that transition, broadening his executive skills in several
positions. When Quantum wooed him in 1993 for its Singapore post, Sohn knew
there were still questions about his background.

"It was an experiment for Quantum not to send an American."

In Asia, executives sit at the top of a hierarchy while American executives must
lead by building consensus among employees, Sohn said.

"It is a fundamental shift, and the biggest barrier for an Asian manager to be
successful here," he said. "(Overseas) if you praise too often, they may think
it's cheap and not genuine. You still have to communicate, but how you do it is
often very different."

Sohn holds no regrets about the challenges he has faced.

"I don't know if I would be a success if I had stayed in Korea," he said. "The
cross-cultural challenges were an opportunity, and that gave me confidence."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ANNA MARIE REMEDIOS - MERCURY NEWS
Young Sohn, president and general manager of Quantum Corp.'s desktop and
portables storage group, displays a 3.5-inch Fireball TM desktop hard drive,
while engineers work in the background in the Sirocco Development laboratory.
[960811 FR 22A 2]
PHOTO: Sohn
[960811 FR 1A 7; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 12, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUST BEING HERE IS A GIFT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 223 words


I AM in total agreement with John Chih-Ming Liu on immigrant aid. There was a
time when this country was looked upon as the land of opportunity and a haven
from oppression. People kissed the ground upon landing on the shores of the
United States. They did not expect welfare, food stamps, free housing, and they
wouldn't have dared demonstrate on the streets for their "rights." They worked
hard, helped each other and were entitled to nothing. And they built the
greatest country on Earth.

I came to this country 30 years ago and did everything in my power to
assimilate, learn the language and be a productive member of my new home. I felt
privileged and lucky to have been able to immigrate here.

I feel offended when I see legal (and illegal) immigrants in Los Angeles
demonstrating with a foreign flag demanding "rights" and whatever dole they
might think they are entitled to. I think it is outrageous that I get ballots
printed in any other language than English. You want to vote? Learn the
language! You want to eat? Get a job! You don't like it here? Go back where you
came from! The United States has been more generous with the people of the world
than any other country. Just being here is a tremendous gift. This country gave
me freedom and an opportunity. The rest is up to me.

- Peter M. Vadasz
Los Gatos

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters, etc.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                AUGUST 14, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOLE, KEMP CAN BRIDGE GAP ON ISSUES, GOP SAYS KEY POINTS: IMMIGRATION AND
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION ARE IMPORTANT TO CALIFORNIA VOTERS.

BYLINE: HALLYE JORDAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 774 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Bob Dole's decision to tap Jack Kemp as his vice presidential running mate -
despite their differences on illegal immigration and affirmative action - had
skeptics wondering whether the GOP would lose its grip on two key election
issues.

Some said it would be impossible for Kemp to move his more-moderate stance on
social issues closer to Dole's without losing credibility in California. Others
even wondered whether Kemp would be allowed to campaign in this state and
speculated that Dole was, in effect, giving up on winning the nation's biggest
electoral prize.

But Gov. Pete Wilson and Dole's California campaign director sought to quiet the
skeptics Tuesday, saying Kemp's positions on two of California's most divisive
issues are so close to Dole's that they can easily be reconciled. And even if
they can't, they said, it shouldn't matter much.

"When George Bush ran with Ronald Reagan in 1980, (the Democrats) went on and on
about how Bush called (Reagan's economic platform) 'voodoo economics,' " said
Ken Khachigian, Dole's state campaign manager. "They went on and on about how
Bush was pro-choice and Reagan was pro-life. . . . And we (still) won."

Dole and Khachigian say it will happen again.

Yet Kemp has already begun to move closer to Dole on immigration and affirmative
action. In an interview with the Los Angeles Times on Tuesday, Kemp reversed his
position on the education of illegal immigrants, saying public schools should no
longer shoulder the costs of educating children who are in the country
illegally.

Now supports initiative

Earlier, he jumped off the fence he had straddled for the past six months on the
California Civil Rights Initiative, saying he now supports the measure, which
would ban state and local programs that take into consideration race, sex or
national origin in public education, hiring and contracting.

Dole already had embraced the initiative, but Kemp had balked. Until Monday
night.

"This is clearly a case of a politician capitulating to the extreme elements of
his party for the sake of seeking the vice presidential spot for the Republican
National Convention," said Tanya Domi, media director for the campaign against
the initiative.

"This is the quarterback that flips teams midgame," she said of Kemp, the former
pro football player, Congress member and housing secretary.

But Ward Connerly, CCRI chairman, said Kemp apparently is convinced that
supporting the initiative does not conflict with his views on affirmative
action.

"Jack Kemp wants to retain those affirmative-action programs that are not
race-based, as do we," Connerly said. "So I think it's that evolution of
thought, that evolution of information, that allows him to come to the position
that he has."

Khachigian and Wilson expect Kemp to reach a similar reconciliation with his
party's tough platform against illegal immigration. His reversal on schooling
for children who are in the country illegally may be an indication of that, even
though Kemp told the Times he still opposes provisions in the platform that deny
citizenship to U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants.

Illegal vs. legal immigration

Some say Kemp can meld his views to Dole's by emphasizing the difference between
legal and illegal immigration and emphasizing the costs states shoulder because
of illegal immigrants.

"He has, I think, come to understand that it is not fair for the federal
government to default on its responsibility to first secure the border, and that
it is equally unfair to stick state taxpayers with the horrendous cost of
providing benefits which are, in effect, a reward and incentive to people to
come violate the law and enter the country illegally," Wilson said.

Khachigian agreed: "I think what I see Jack Kemp doing from time to time during
the campaign is talking about the burden of illegal immigration on the taxpayers
of this state."

Assembly speaker hopeful

Assembly Speaker Curt Pringle predicted Kemp would be able to flesh out his
views on immigration and affirmative action in a way that brings them closer to
Dole's. Kemp could not simply stay silent, Pringle said.

"He has to explain his position a little more clearly," Pringle said.

In the interview with the Times, Kemp insisted that he would continue to
privately press any differences he has on issues with Dole; but he said that in
public he would serve as the nominee's "blocking back" and support his
decisions.

"He did not pick me to be a puppet," Kemp said. "He wants to me to be Jack Kemp
- and I will be Jack Kemp. But I will do it in private. In public, I will
support the leader of our ticket."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: election '96

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Kemp
[960814 FR 15A 3]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Supporters of Pat Buchanan clash with activists associated with the National
Organization of Chicano Students during an immigration rally outside the San
Diego Convention Center on Monday. The confrontation drew the attention of
police officers.
[960814 FR 15A 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 15, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AGENTS SAY BORDER DATA DOCTORED OPERATION GATEKEEPER MADE TO LOOK GOOD,
NEWSPAPER REPORTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


More than 30 U.S. Border Patrol agents have come forward to bolster charges
their supervisors falsified records to make the Clinton administration's
border-control program look successful, a newspaper reported Wednesday.

The agents have approached investigators, naming several field operations
supervisors and one assistant chief patrol agent as having directed agents to
falsify data and not make arrests, unidentified sources told the North (San
Diego) County Times.

"Last year, there was a saying that the magic number was 25 arrests (per day),"
one Border Patrol agent told the newspaper. "Our job was like catch-and-release
fishing where you had a limit."

Attempt to push east

The Clinton administration's 22-month Operation Gatekeeper program has attempted
to push illegal immigrant crossings out of urban San Diego and into rural areas
where it is more difficult to cross.

Border Patrol spokesman Ron Henley said he could not comment on any allegations
that are under investigation. Officials have previously denied the allegations.

Earlier this year, leaders of the National Border Patrol Council, the union that
represents agents, said some members had complained of pressure to manipulate
data to make Gatekeeper appear more effective.

The Justice Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service are
conducting a joint investigation into the allegations.

Gag order alleged

Since the probe started, an agencywide gag order has been placed on agents,
unidentified agents told the newspaper.

Other allegations include the following:

* During a five-month period manning a night scope, a supervisor became enraged
by the number of sightings recorded. The supervisor altered some of his reports
by erasing the final digit.

* Seismic sensors installed to detect foot traffic have been moved out of the
hills and down to the border, making it harder to tell how many migrants have
made it across the front line.

* Agents at one station were told to report that apprehended immigrants had
entered the country in the eastern mountains. That would create the impression
Gatekeeper had pushed immigrant traffic east.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 17, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS AGENT JAILED FOR SMUGGLING OF CHINESE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 130 words


A senior U.S. immigration agent was sentenced in Hong Kong to 40 months in
prison Friday after pleading guilty to involvement in a ring that smuggled
Chinese immigrants into the United States. Jerry Wolf Stuchiner, 45, a veteran
investigator with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, had been arrested
July 15 upon arrival at Hong Kong's Kai Tak airport with five forged Honduran
passports.

At the time of his arrest by Hong Kong anti-corruption agents, Stuchiner headed
the INS office in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, and was the only U.S. immigration
investigator based in Central America. He previously had served in Hong Kong
from 1989 to 1994 and was considered one of the agency's top experts on the
smuggling of illegal Chinese immigrants to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                AUGUST 21, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 358 words


Cuba demanded Tuesday that the United States hand back four Cubans who hijacked
planes to flee the island, saying failure to do so could jeopardize existing
immigration accords between the two countries. The Cuban Foreign Ministry
criticized what it described as Washington's "traditionally concealing and weak
attitude" toward such acts and its failure to return the four Cubans involved in
two separate hijacking incidents, one in July and another last Friday.
* In Bosnia, NATO forces blew up 24 tons of contraband Bosnian Serb ammunition,
sending a column of dirt and smoke 4,000 feet into the air.
* South Africa's black socialist Pan-Africanist Congress acknowledged that its
guerrillas had targeted white civilians during the anti-apartheid struggle, but
said it would not apologize.
* A hunger strike by African immigrants fighting expulsion orders divided
France's ruling coalition this week, with senior politicians calling on an
apparently inflexible government to compromise. About 300 mostly Malian
protesters continued the standoff at a Paris church.
* Japan's local police bungled their investigation of the Aum Shinrikyo cult
because they lacked scientific expertise and familiarity with religious groups,
the National Police Agency announced. The cult is blamed for a series of murders
and other crimes that began in 1989 and culminated in a March 20, 1995,
nerve-gas attack on Tokyo's subways that killed 12 people and injured thousands.

* Black youths who beat and stabbed to death a white student from California
three years ago deserve amnesty, Pan-Africanist Congress leader Clarence Makwet
told the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in Cape Town, South Africa. Led by
Nobel peace laureate Desmond Tutu, the commission can recommend amnesty for
anyone who confesses to politically motivated, apartheid-era crimes. Each of the
four men convicted in the murder of Amy Biehl was sentenced last year to 18
years in prison. Biehl, 26 - a former Stanford scholar from Newport Beach - was
slain Aug. 25, 1993, while attempting to drive black friends home to Guguletu,
an impoverished settlement outside Cape Town.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
An Italian soldier watches smoke rise from exploded contraband ammunition
Tuesday in Bosnia.
[960821 FR 11A]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 4, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ADD DIVERSE FLAVORS, EXHIBIT SHOWS

BYLINE: LAURIE DANIEL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FOOD; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 297 words


IT'S no secret that in this nation of immigrants, the impact of diverse cultural
influences has been particularly strong in California. You need look no further
than the food and wine industries for evidence of that.

A special exhibit by the University of California's Bancroft Library of rare
books, photos and manuscripts documents the influence of immigrants on the
state's gourmet heritage, as well as other aspects of life here. The exhibit,
"California Arrivals: The International Heritage of the State," is part of the
International League of Antiquarian Booksellers Book Fair this weekend in San
Francisco.

Most of the items are not usually on public display. Of particular interest to
foodies will be items related to Ghirardelli chocolates, including a photo of
the San Francisco factory from about 1910, various labels and promotional pieces
and a manuscript dictated by family patriarch Domingo Ghirardelli - "one of the
great Italian influences on California," according to Bancroft rare book
librarian Anthony Bliss.

The wine-related items include several stereo images of Buena Vista Winery in
Sonoma taken by famous English photographer Edweard Muybridge in 1872; minutes
from the state's first viticultural commission meeting with the names of, among
others, Buena Vista founder Agoston Haraszthy, the Napa Valley's Charles Krug
and Charles Wetmore of Cresta Blanca in the Livermore Valley; and a book on the
Haraszthy family by Agoston's son, Arpad.

"Buena Vista (founded in 1857) was so important so early on that it was well
documented," Bliss says. "Some of the other early wineries were not as well
documented."

The book fair is Friday-Sunday at the Concourse Exhibition Center, Eighth and
Brannan streets. For information, call (415) 695-1449.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 7, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REFUGEES LOSE ASYLUM RULING CHINA'S POLICIES: BIRTH CONTROL RULES DON'T
CONSTITUTE PERSECUTION, COURT SAYS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Chinese who flee because of compulsory abortion or sterilization are not victims
of political persecution entitled to asylum in the United States, a federal
appeals court ruled Friday.

Agreeing with two other appellate courts that decided the same issue last year,
the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said a 1990 order by President Bush,
making refugees from China's birth-control policies eligible for asylum, was no
longer in effect.

Without that order, those who flee because they want more children than China
allows cannot show that they are being persecuted because of their political
opinions, the court said.

Reasons for persecution

"Eligibility for asylum (requires) evidence of persecution for reasons other
than general population control alone, for example, disparate treatment against
those who publicly opposed the policy," said Judge Mary Schroeder in the 3-0
ruling.

The case involved De You Chen, who fled China after fathering his third child
and being ordered to undergo sterilization.

The government first fined Chen and his wife, Lan-Zheng Sun, for having a second
child within four years of their first and ordered Sun to have an intra-uterine
device implanted. The couple wanted a boy after two girls, however, and
illegally removed the IUD, the court said.

Chen was denied asylum on the basis of a 1989 decision by the Board of
Immigration Appeals saying China's one-child policy was not, by itself, grounds
for asylum.

Asylum by executive order

Bush's attorney general, Richard Thornburgh, issued temporary regulations in
January 1990 saying a fear of compulsory abortion or sterilization could be
grounds for asylum. Bush issued an executive order to the same effect three
months later.

Chen's lawyers declined comment. In written arguments to the court, Helen Morris
of the Catholic Legal Immigration Network said Chen's treatment must be
considered political persecution.

"Chen and Sun exercised their fundamental human rights to found a family and
defied China's coercive family-planning policy by refusing an eighth-month
abortion and sterilization," Morris wrote. "In retaliation for this, Chen was
fined an amount several times his annual salary and threatened with forcible
sterilization."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 7, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TRIP TO THE BORDER OFFERS A NEW VIEW OF IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 142 words


I recently traveled with the American Civil Liberties Union to the border
between the U.S. and Mexico. Our purpose was to get a first-hand look at the
immigration issue and then tell about our experiences to various high schools in
the Bay Area.

What I saw surprised me. I had always been given the impression that illegal
immigrants were uncivilized barbarians bent on bringing drugs and prostitution
into our great nation (yeah, right). I feel that this is partly the media's
fault. Many newspapers and television shows present immigrants as animals
instead of human beings.

Whether their actions are right or wrong, you cannot blame someone for
attempting to succeed. After all, that concept has been a part of the American
dream. The immigrant-bashing has got to stop!

- Eric Min, 15
11th grade, Monta Vista High School
Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 SEPTEMBER 8, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON ADMINISTRATION JUMPS GUN ON CITIZENSHIPS

BYLINE: CONNIE CASS, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In an election-year push to grant citizenship to 1.2 million immigrants, the
Clinton administration mistakenly allowed tens of thousands to become Americans
before criminal-record checks were done.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials acknowledge the errors - 30,000
in New York alone - but blame them on misrouted paperwork.

Internal documents suggest the White House was keenly interested in the
citizenship effort, including sending personal letters to the new Americans, but
was warned by the INS that speeding up the naturalization process too much would
be viewed as blatantly political.

"INS warns that if we are too aggressive at removing the roadblocks to success,
we might be publicly criticized for running a pro-Democratic voter mill and even
risk having Congress stop us," cautioned one memo prepared by Vice President Al
Gore's staff for President Clinton.

Excerpts of the memo were obtained by the Associated Press from individuals
familiar with it.

INS officials insist the "Citizenship USA" initiative pushed by Gore over the
past 18 months was designed only to clear a huge backlog of applications - and
had nothing to do with the November election.

"It's caused us all kinds of undue hardship that this happens to match the
political calendar," said David Rosenberg, director of the INS program. "It's
simply not true that politics played a role in this program."

None of the agency's official documents announcing the program make any mention
of the election.

But agency documents gathered by congressional investigators and interviews
suggest at least some believed a key motive was to get the new citizens to vote
- something they'd be able to do for the first time this fall.

"As you must be aware, the INS has been told to naturalize everyone who filed
form N400 (citizenship application) prior to April 1, 1996, in time for them to
register to vote in the November election," Don L. Riding, the INS official in
charge of the Fresno office, wrote this spring.

Riding's boss, San Francisco district director Thomas Schiltgen, said Riding was
only expressing his personal opinion when he linked the program to the election.

White House officials also suggested the INS provide it the addresses of the new
citizens so the president could send them a personal letter. The idea was shot
down by INS officials as too political and possibly illegal.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 10, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT TESTING FRAUD DRAWS HOUSE ATTENTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 147 words


For more than a year, the government has known that a major testing service has
certified immigrants who cannot speak English to become U.S. citizens, but has
continued to let the company operate, documents show. The government believes
that the Florida-based Naturalization Assistance Services "specifically
overlooked or disregarded cheating" by its testing centers, including instances
in which immigrants who paid money were given answers to their tests, the
documents state.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service suspended NAS last December, but
reinstated the firm within days. When alleged fraud persisted - and then
highlighted on national TV - the agency took less severe action. It sent NAS a
"notice of intent to suspend;" the suspension still is pending and the firm is
still in business. The House subcommittee on international affairs is
investigating.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 19, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITIZENS' RITES MOVED BY POLITICAL CONCERNS, A RECORD NUMBER OF IMMIGRANTS FROM
THE SOUTH BAY CONVERGE TO TAKE THE OATH OF ALLEGIANCE

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN AND T.T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 954 words


AT A TIME when many Americans are just tuning in to this year's electoral
campaigns, a record 10,960 local immigrants became U.S. citizens Wednesday -
many motivated by political events.

For many of those naturalized in a makeshift "court" beneath the Sharks jaws and
advertisements of the San Jose Arena, the largest area ceremony ever, there was
one overriding reason to seek citizenship.

"I want to vote," said Dominique Dinh, 26, a San Jose State University student
originally from Vietnam.

A string of such ceremonies throughout the country will usher in a record high
number of new citizens in the year ending this month - as many as 1.3 million in
all. Altogether Wednesday and in the nine days before, more than 24,500 people
became U.S. citizens in Northern and central California.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has been trying to cut a
naturalization backlog, focusing particularly on immigrant-rich cities such as
San Francisco, Los Angeles, Miami, Chicago and New York.

For four years, San Jose had the nation's worst backlog - 18 months. It's now
down to normal, with about 20,400 cases pending at the end of August and an
average six-month wait between application and naturalization, according to Tim
Murray of the INS.

But the biggest backlog Wednesday was the one on the roads and highways leading
to downtown San Jose, where traffic clogged as the thousands of soon-to-be
citizens headed in to arena parking lots. There were a "ton" of small accidents,
mostly fender-benders, because of the slow traffic, said Mark Stender of Metro
Traffic Control.

The motorists were eager to become citizens.

"I should have done it years ago," said Henry Castaneda, 41. The Mexican
immigrant said he and his mother, father and sister decided to become citizens.
"I've gotten used to the lifestyle," he said.

Spurred by legislation

Immigrants interviewed Wednesday said they were spurred to become citizens
because legislation affecting immigration and welfare recipients was clearly
going to limit their rights to receive public services. Proposition 187, the
1994 California initiative that aimed to limit access of illegal immigrants to
health care and education, is widely perceived by immigrants to be aimed at all
immigrants.

And thus, voting was a theme at the arena, where business was heavy for
volunteers from the county registrar's office, the League of Women Voters and
other organizations that were handing out voter registration forms. It was
impossible to determine how many in the crowd registered, or whether new
citizens registering to vote favored any party.

On the sidewalk outside, the only political group visibly trying to make a point
was a group opposed to Proposition 209, the California Civil Rights Initiative,
which would dismantle affirmative action in government offices and public
education.

"I'm becoming a citizen so I can vote right away," said Vijay Upadhyay, who was
born in Gujarat, India, 28 years ago. He said he plans to vote for Clinton, who
he believes is good for the economy. "I can't see what Dole has to offer."

New welfare bill

Applications for naturalization suddenly surged in August, after President
Clinton decided to sign welfare legislation that cuts services for legal
immigrants. But everyone who became a citizen on Wednesday had applied at least
six months ago, well before the bill's passage.

The last time this many people became U.S. citizens in one year was in the
1940s. The current wave of naturalization has been building for a decade,
experts say, a result of amnesty programs and INS encouragement, in addition to
immigration policies. More than 1 million farmworkers who obtained legal
residence in the late '80s and early '90s, including 600,000 in California,
became eligible to apply for citizenship one year ago.

Political motivations

However, some politicians and anti-immigration advocates believe the mass
naturalizations are politically motivated. The INS denies allegations of
political motives.

"The administration has made it its policy to naturalize as many people as it
can before the election," said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, a national organization that wants to reduce
immigration.

"What a crock," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National
Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group based in Washington. "First, the
restrictionists say people don't want to become citizens. Now that people want
to become citizens, they say it is a plot."

Altogether, people from 104 countries became naturalized citizens Wednesday,
including 3,997 Mexicans, 1,862 Vietnamese, and smaller numbers of people from,
in descending order, the Philippines, India, China, Taiwan, Korea, Iran, the
United Kingdom, El Salvador and others. More than 1,000 of them took the
opportunity to Americanize their names while they were naturalized.

Welcoming remarks

Federal Judge James Ware, who presided over the temporary "court," exhorted the
new citizens to vote and get involved in civic life. Ware's homily came in the
middle of a 50-minute ceremony that included San Jose Mayor Susan Hammer's
welcoming remarks, a Navy color guard and a choir from Castillero Middle School
singing a medley of patriotic tunes and the national anthem.

In unison, a crowd that filled the stadium risers, much of the balcony and most
of the playing floor, stood for parts of the ceremony - including an oath of
allegiance dating back to 1790. Stacy Le, 19, was baffled by the language. "I
couldn't figure out what 'dinner reservation' was doing in there!"

It comes from the penultimate sentence: "I take this obligation freely and
without mental reservation."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: The San Jose Arena was packed Wednesday as thousands took their oath of
citizenship.
[960919 FR 1A 1; color]
PHOTO: LEN LAHMAN - MERCURY NEWS
At left is county employee Mary Sanchez, 53, who moved here from Mexico when she
was just 3.
[960919 FR 1A 2; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 19, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NATURALIZATION FORM HINTS SUBVERSIVES ARE STILL THREAT

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 546 words


Like a '50s photo left in the sun, communism is fading around the world. But in
the naturalization questionnaire given to every would-be citizen, it remains a
concern.

"Are you now, or have you ever been a member of, or in any way connected or
associated with the Communist Party, or ever knowingly aided or supported the
Communist Party directly, or indirectly through another organization, group or
person, or every advocated, taught, believed in, or knowingly supported or
furthered the interests of communism?"

The question dates back to the height of the Cold War, when fear of a communist
onslaught was rampant. Sen. Joseph McCarthy conducted hearings to ferret out
Communist Party members and was eventually drummed out of the Senate for his
obsession.

Still, the question remains in the U.S. naturalization questionnaire because no
one has ever bothered to take it out.

"It is an anachronism," said Lawrence Fuchs, a Brandeis University professor,
stressing that he was speaking for himself, not as a member of a national
immigration panel on which he sits. "It has no bearing; it has no place. The
United States should not be disqualifying anyone from naturalization, or from
immigration, based on their political thought."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service does nothing when it encounters
people who were Communist Party members more than 10 years ago, a spokeswoman
said, but more recent membership might prompt more questions about participation
in the party. "It is extremely rare that anyone has been denied because of
that," she said.

The exam also includes questions about whether the applicant has, among other
things, served in a Nazi concentration camp; been a prostitute, pimp or a
patient in a mental institution; or sold drugs.

While Fuchs' commission is reviewing the process of becoming a citizen, it has
not recently made any recommendations for changing the process or the communist
inquiry.

The Communist Party is legal in the United States, and is headquartered in New
York City.

To be eligible for naturalized citizenship, a person needs to have lived in the
United States as a permanent resident for at least five years, or be married to
a U.S. citizen for at least three years. Then, the applicant must apply and must
pass a written civics test in English. Applicants must also prove a minimal
command of English, orally and in writing.

If approved, the new citizen must take a citizenship oath in words that have
remained unchanged since 1790.

The scrutiny of would-be citizens' patriotism has its roots in a 1903 statute
setting guidelines for screening out "subversives." Mention of the Communist
Party by name was included in the Internal Security Act of 1950, and details
about how to screen out party members were included in the Immigration and
Nationality Act of 1952.

Since that time, however, the communist Soviet Union and Eastern Europe have
splintered into independent states with emerging democracies. Mainland China and
Vietnam are U.S. trading partners that, although still officially run by
communists, practice "Market-Leninism" enthusiastically. North Korea remains
stubbornly communist, but even Cuba has begun introducing market economics into
its once strictly controlled economy.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 20, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE MACARENA, PETE WILSON-STYLE

BYLINE: YVETTE C. DOSS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 590 words


These days, everybody's doing the Macarena. From our spunky Olympic gymnasts to
major league ball players, the Latino line dance is a big hit with everyone. In
San Diego last month, vice-presidential candidate Jack Kemp shook his groove
thing doing it. Our power-suited first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, tried it at
the Democratic National Convention, and so did our wooden vice president, Al
Gore. (Well, his own version, anyway.)
Now, California Gov. Pete Wilson is showing himself to be the supreme dancer. He
has his very own dance, a new sensation. It's called the Latino Hustle because
it does quite a number on the state's Latino immigrants, both documented and
undocumented. With his latest executive order, which will end illegal
immigrants' access to benefits ranging from prenatal care to public housing and
child-abuse prevention programs, Wilson has added the finishing touches.

Wilson is hustling a massive overhaul of the state welfare system before the
landmark federal reforms are enacted. He seems to be under the impression that
if he hustles enough, the courts won't catch on that he's trying to enact some
provisions of Proposition 187 even while they are the subject of litigation.

For those who'd like to learn how to do this nifty little dance, here's how it
goes.

THE TURNAROUND - First, court cheap, immigrant labor to help out your
agribusiness backers. Do this by supporting a supplement to the federal
Immigration Reform and Control Act (as Wilson did in 1986) that offers legal
residency to immigrants who can prove, after arriving in the country, that
they're agricultural workers. Then, reject a series of reforms to deny taxpayer
funds to illegal immigrants.

Now for the swift about-face on the dance floor.

Turn around and court the angry white male by leading a charge for an
anti-immigrant initiative (such as Proposition 187) to end taxpayer-supported
services for those who enter the country illegally.

GO LOW, TOUCH THE FLOOR, GET DOWN - Slash Aid to Families with Dependent
Children by 25 percent in a period of four years (which Wilson has done). Don't
worry about increasing the number of California children living in poverty (a
figure that has grown by 400,000 since 1991). Next, cut funds for the poor,
elderly, blind and disabled in the state's 41 poorest counties by 10 percent
(which Wilson did in the 1995 budget).

THE SWING - First, be affirmative-action friendly. Serve as an architect of
statewide affirmative-action programs. Help pass an initiative aimed at
increasing the number of minorities employed by the city of San Diego. (Wilson
did of all this as mayor of San Diego in 1972.) Sign at least 24 bills
containing affirmative-action provisions (as he has since 1991) and state that
you have "long supported (minority) set-asides," (which Wilson did in October
1994).

Now, another swift about-face on the dance floor.

Turn around and lobby the University of California Board of Regents to vote for
a ban on affirmative action at UC schools in the hopes that this may boost your
faltering presidential bid. Then kill affirmative-action programs at UC during a
summer board meeting (as Wilson did on July 20, 1995). Next, support an
initiative to end all state affirmative action.

That's all there is to Wilson's Latino Hustle.

Who knows, maybe he'll even compose a song to go along with it. I can see Rush
Limbaugh, Newt Gingrich and Pat Buchanan now. As Wilson steps on stage to
perform, they'll be chiming in: "Play That Funky Music, White Boy."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Yvette C. Doss is a former Mercury News online editor and editor-in-chief and
publisher of Frontera magazine.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (2);
DRAWING: SCOTT WILLIS, MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL CARTOONIST
[960920 ED 7B 1]
DRAWING: [Pete Wilson]
[960920 ED 7B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 24, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SWEEP NABS 16 BAY AREA INVESTIGATION FOCUSED ON ALLEGED SEX
OFFENDERS

BYLINE: RODNEY FOO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 234 words


Sixteen alleged sex offenders in the Bay Area were arrested by U.S. immigration
agents during a sweep that capped a four-month investigation, federal officials
announced Monday.

Arrests were made in Santa Clara, San Francisco, Monterey and Contra Costa
counties. Santa Clara County sheriff's deputies and police from East Palo Alto
and Palo Alto helped agents make arrests.

The crimes the offenders allegedly committed were rape, sodomy, child
molestation, mayhem, kidnapping and spousal abuse. Identities of the offenders -
who are from Vietnam, Laos, Peru, Egypt, Mexico, Guatemala and Tonga - were not
available from the INS.

Eleven of the 16 were legal residents. In some cases, statutes permit the
deportation of residents with green cards for serious crimes, said Sharon
Rummery, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"They committed the (crimes) here in the U.S. and served time. When they emerged
from jail, they should have been handed over to us," Rummery said.

But because of the high volume of inmates being released, jurisdictions have not
always been able to alert the INS, she said.

Seven of those taken in custody were registered sex offenders but had not
registered their addresses with police, Rummery said.

They were turned over to the California Department of Justice.

The others will be processed for deportation hearings, Rummery said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 26, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE NEW MAFIA: CHINESE GANGS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 486 words


FOR most of this century, America's Chinatowns were marked by their insularity.

Most Chinese immigrants had roots in the same part of China - Canton. Clannish
organized-crime groups engaged in low-level criminal activities, such as
loan-sharking and prostitution, but these were largely contained to Chinese
emigre communities.

The 1990s have brought a far more frightening trend. Now a worldwide criminal
network of ethnic Chinese is wreaking havoc throughout the United States, as
Mercury News Pacific Rim correspondent Michael Dorgan detailed in a Sunday
report titled "Shadow of the Dragon." In California, particularly, the network
has become the new Mafia.

Computer chip thefts alone are costing Silicon Valley firms more than $50
million annually. Law enforcement groups say that many of the chips are being
fenced to ethnic Chinese gangs and shipped overseas.

Many of the criminals belong to triads, secret criminal societies based
primarily in Hong Kong and Taiwan. Besides chips, the triads traffic in
high-grade heroin from the ethnic Chinese opium armies in Southeast Asia's
Golden Triangle. In addition, triad members smuggle in shiploads of illegal
immigrants and commit credit-card fraud. They've helped turn California's
Southland into the financial fraud capital of the world.

The new criminal network represents the underbelly of an incredible spurt of
entrepreneurialism fueled by booming immigration from Taiwan, Hong Kong and
ethnic Chinese areas of countries such as Vietnam and Thailand.

In one sense, the network is nothing new. Throughout American history, small
numbers of immigrants have turned to ethnic crime organizations as an
alternative route to economic success. What's dangerously different about the
ethnic Chinese network, however, is its international scope. That makes it
exceedingly complex for U.S. law enforcement agencies to fight.

The FBI has reacted to the challenge by announcing it will open offices in 23
foreign cities. But that's just the start.

Law enforcement agencies desperately need more Chinese-American officers to help
infiltrate the loosely knit network. The agencies will have to buck a reluctance
on the part of many Asian immigrant parents to allow their children to seek a
career in law enforcement. Many of the parents see police work as unseemly, in
large part because the cops in their home countries were so corrupt.

U.S. officials also need to lean harder on Taiwan, which has become a haven for
ethnic Chinese criminals. The Taiwanese government claims all people of Chinese
descent as citizens and routinely refuses to turn them over to other governments
for prosecution.

One thing is certain: U.S. law enforcement is in for a long haul. After all, it
took federal agents and prosecutors a half-century to begin dismembering the
Italian mob. Tearing the global tentacles off the Chinese mafia will be a
tougher job.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: BY JIM GENSHEIMER - MERCURY NEWS
Customs officers search cargo from Hong Kong in an Oakland warehouse. It is an
arduous, time-consuming job because the cargo must be unloaded from a big
shipping container. After the search, this merchandise was returned to the
container and sent on its way.
[960926 ED 8B 1]
PHOTO: BY JIM GENSHEIMER - MERCURY NEWS
Below left, a toy dolphin was cut open and its stuffing removed in a search for
drugs. Nothing was found.
[960926 ED 8B 2]
PHOTO: BY JIM GENSHEIMER - MERCURY NEWS
Below right, a customs officer searches packages of Chinese herbs from Hong
Kong.
[960926 ED 8B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 27, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INSIDER: CARTEL USED INS BUSES

BYLINE: JEFF FRANKS, Reuters

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


A former insider in a major Mexican drug cartel said Thursday that his group
used U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service buses to ship thousands of
pounds of cocaine north from the U.S.-Mexico border.

Juan Antonio Ortiz, who ran the gulf cartel's U.S. transportation network, also
said the cartel routinely paid off Mexican police and other officials.

Ortiz, testifying in the trial of the alleged cartel leader, Juan Garcia Abrego,
said the cartel began using INS buses to ship drugs in 1986 and kept it up until
1990, when one of the INS staffers working with the drug dealers was caught.

The drugs were stashed on buses used to transport illegal immigrants captured in
southern Texas to Houston, 300 miles to the northeast, for flights back to their
homelands, he said.

The beauty of the scheme, he testified, was that the INS buses were never
checked at U.S. government checkpoints inside Texas where agents searched all
vehicles for drugs.

"They just waved (them) on," said Ortiz, who was arrested in 1993 and sentenced
to 70 months in prison after agreeing to cooperate with U.S. prosecutors.

He said Mexican police and other officials were easy targets for cartel bribery.
On two occasions, Luis Garcia Medrano, the cartel's second in command, was
arrested but freed after payoffs, he said.

"They (Mexican officials) had Mr. Medrano but they let him go. They (the cartel)
would pay his way out before they took him to jail," he said.

Medrano finally went to jail in 1993. He died in prison of liver problems Aug.
20, the Mexican government said.

Under cross-examination by defense attorney Tony Canales, Ortiz told of paying
$45,000 to a Mexico City police commander in a McDonald's restaurant in the
Mexican capital.

"You have no faith in the police in Mexico?" Canales asked.

"I don't have none, sir. The police over there are bribed, corrupt - you can buy
them," Ortiz said.

Garcia Abrego, a former cookie-factory worker from Texas, was captured in
Monterrey, Mexico, in January and flown to Houston for trial. He faces up to
life in prison if convicted on 22 drug-related counts and has pleaded not
guilty.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 1, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IBM'S USE OF VISAS PROBED INS, STATE EXAMINE WORKERS' JOBS, PAY

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 856 words


Immigration and State Department officials said Monday that they are looking
into IBM's use of business visas to import Mexican workers who assembled disk
drives in its San Jose plant.

And state labor officials said Monday that they will investigate whether IBM
violated California laws governing the payment of minimum wages and overtime.
Last week, federal labor officials said that they also are investigating the
practice.

International Business Machines Corp. imports Mexican workers from its
Guadalajara plant to labor seven days a week on its San Jose assembly line for
Mexican wages - the equivalent of $1.40 an hour. The company pays all the
workers transportation and living expenses while here. IBM says the arrangement
is legal because the workers are here receiving training.

Such workers - the most recent group of 10 returned to Mexico last weekend - are
here "to become familiar with the manufacture of new products that soon will be
produced in both San Jose and Guadalajara," IBM spokesman Cary Ziter stated
Monday in a letter to the Mercury News. Ziter said the workers needed to know
how to assemble 9 gigabyte disk drives, which are now made in San Jose but not
Mexico.

The workers, however, said they are doing "exactly" the same work in San Jose as
they do in Mexico. And Joan Pinder, a disk-drive industry official, said Monday
that even though the drives made at the San Jose plant have greater capacity,
the work these employees perform in the "head-stack assembly" area shouldn't be
any different from the work done in Mexico.

B-1 visas like those issued the Mexican workers are normally for short stays by
visitors here to conduct business, or attend conferences or training seminars,
immigration officials said. Agency literature says the visa is not meant to
cover "purely local employment or labor for hire." Immigration officials said
they are likely to focus on whether IBM brought in workers for training, or to
meet production needs.

'Important issues'

"This . . . raises some important issues and we want to be sure the visa process
is not abused," said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Office in San Francisco.

In addition, the Bureau of Consular Affairs at the U.S. Department of State said
it was checking to see if the visas issued by its Guadalajara office had been
abused. Informally, however, the office estimated that three or four groups of
IBM workers from Guadalajara had received B-1, or business visas, so far this
year.

"We like to work together with U.S. businesses, and IBM is a large and reputable
company, so we try to accommodate their needs - but we don't tolerate abuse from
anybody," said a State Department official who asked not to be identified.
"We've brought this to the attention of the consulate in Guadalajara, and they
will be paying close attention to this in the future."

Ziter acknowledged last week that the company routinely brings in foreign
workers for training, and said the arrangement is a standard practice in Silicon
Valley.

Seagate's experience

Ten years ago, Seagate Technology sent home 100 Asian workers after INS
officials determined that some production work they had done violated the intent
of their visa status, also B-1. At the time, the INS acknowledged that its rules
were not sufficiently clear and ruled that the company had not violated any
laws.

Pinder, executive director for the International Disk Drive Equipment and
Materials Association, said there were no companies in Silicon Valley that she
knew of with training programs similar to IBM's.

"Other companies bring foreign workers here, but not to do production," Pinder
said. "IBM is the only one of the large disk drive makers with production lines
in the U.S."

However, Ziter said in his letter that it is "illogical" to suggest that "IBM
would bring 10 individuals from Mexico for manufacturing positions in San Jose -
a site of about 5,000 employees."

"The employees from Guadalajara were in San Jose for training, pure and simple,"
Ziter's letter stated. "To suggest otherwise is a disservice to them and to
IBM."

Practice growing

An IBM supervisor from Guadalajara and one of his workers said that they were
brought to San Jose to help with heavy production needs. The supervisor, a
22-year veteran of IBM, said work crews rotate in and out of IBM plants in the
U.S. as necessary. The practice, he said, has grown in recent years.

Fred McNeese, a spokesman at IBM headquarters, said the company had no estimate
of how many IBM workers had been involved in its training programs.

The Office of Special Immigration at the Department of Justice will look into
the matter to see whether the practice violated the civil rights of U.S.
workers, according to James Angus, acting special counsel. If it is determined
that IBM brought in the Mexican workers to avoid paying U.S. wages, IBM workers
who have been laid off or replaced could have cause for complaint under a
provision of the 1986 Immigration Reform Act that bars discrimination against
U.S. workers on the basis of citizenship status, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 1, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINO-LOOKING DAY LABORERS ALLEGEDLY TARGETED IN INS STING

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is investigating allegations that
agents targeted Latino-looking day laborers in a one-day sting operation.

In a letter to the associate commissioner of the INS, immigrant advocates
contend that unmarked cars approached Latino day workers Sept. 5 at makeshift
curbside hiring spots in suburban Carlsbad.

The men driving the cars, who were dressed in civilian clothes, asked for a
certain number of laborers, who piled into the vans, wrote Claudia Smith of
California Rural Legal Assistance, based in Oceanside.

The men were taken to an informal processing center at a nearby mall, even
though many of them were legal workers, Smith said in the letter.

INS District Director Mark Reed has ordered a stop to the alleged sting
activities, said spokesman Rudy Murillo.

Reed had not been informed of the operation before it happened, Murillo said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 3, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

LINES START 24 HOURS EARLY TO GET INSIDE INS OFFICE AGENCY SAYS IT'S REVIEWING
POLICY THAT REQUIRES PEOPLE TO WAIT SO LONG FOR SERVICE.

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 877 words


Canadian computer programmer Brian Deans-Rowe and his wife, Rebecca, arrived at
the San Jose Federal Building at 6 a.m. Monday to file his application for a
work permit. About 180 people were already in line, which snaked half a block
from the Immigration and Naturalization Service to the west side of the United
Artists theater.

The Deans-Rowes didn't realize what they were getting themselves into in this
extraordinarily busy season for the INS. It was Wednesday before they finally
made it through the door.

For years, the INS has been known for long lines. But in the past month,
especially since almost 11,000 immigrants were sworn in as citizens in San Jose
on Sept. 18, the lines have been as long as anyone can remember. Lineups
regularly begin 24 hours in advance. The agency says it's reviewing the policy
that requires people to wait in a line to get served by the agency.

INS officials say they don't know the exact reason for the most recent surge in
demand. Offices in Fresno, Sacramento and San Francisco also have long lines -
although the regular overnight wait in San Jose appears unusual.

The surge could be a result of changes in welfare and immigration laws or the
usual surge in demand that follows a naturalization ceremony as new citizens
apply for immigration papers for their relatives, said Tom Schiltgen, director
of the INS' San Francisco district.

"Having those kinds of lines down there is not something we want to see,"
Schiltgen said. "We try very hard to serve the public, but given the number of
personnel, immigration and probation officers that we have on staff and the
physical ability to deal with the public, there are limitations. Potentially we
could increase our staff by 50 percent and still there would be people lined
up."

The mass naturalization at the San Jose Arena was the largest citizenship
ceremony ever held locally, one of the last in a yearlong effort to reduce
backlogs of naturalization applications. The local backlog, once as much as 18
months, was at one point the nation's worst.

None of the people in line with the Deans-Rowes had been able to make a prior
appointment. Nor could any go up to San Francisco, where lines have recently
been shorter, because they had been assigned specifically to the San Jose
office.

Most of the sleeping gear - bags, cardboard, blankets - that had sustained the
dozens who had spent the night holding places in line had been already stashed
in cars or taken home by relatives. Except for the crying of a child or two, a
pall of silence cloaked the line. From professionals to farmworkers, their
bleary eyes and gray faces attested to a night spent trying to stay comfortable
while catching a few winks.

Another 200 people or so joined the line as the 31-year-old couple waited. By
7:30 a.m., it was at least 400 people long, stretching all the way to the
Pavilion. After six hours in line, the couple reached the office door only to
learn that green card applications had closed for the day and that the INS was
taking no more applications.

They returned Monday night to secure a place for Tuesday, but the line was
already so long that they had no hope of conducting their business then either.

So Tuesday afternoon, after an evening spent watching the comedy "Green Card,"
they finally staked out a place three spots from the front of the line, held it
overnight and were able to get in the door to get their own green card Wednesday
morning.

Some people waiting in line this week simply wanted to pick up forms or get
information. It's possible to order forms by mail and get some information by
telephone, but the phones are often busy.

Most people in line wanted the one thing the INS is not giving out:
appointments.

"We had no chance to make an appointment," said Lupe Lozano, who had arrived
from Salinas at 6 a.m. Sunday on his fourth try to petition for permanent
residence for his wife, Margarita. "You have to come personally."

By arriving more than a day beforehand, the U.S. citizen, 53, and his Mexican
wife, 50, finally held down the No. 1 spot.

"This is not fair," he said.

But there's a method to the waiting madness, Schiltgen said. When applications
are filed by mail, half or so contain errors and have to be returned. The
"change of status" applications, for temporary visa holders who want to get
permanent visas, are especially a problem.

Why not allow people to make appointments?

"That's something we are going to be looking at in this review period,"
Schiltgen said. "It has been addressed before and not necessarily seen as our
best option. We would have to add personnel to staff phones and do scheduling.
With the limited staff we had, we thought it was better just to help people
through the process."

The San Francisco district has also begun reviewing whether to redeploy extra
temporary personnel hired to cut down San Jose's huge naturalization backlog, he
said. The office is also looking for larger office space, which could
accommodate more people waiting for services. Implementing the ideas will take
anywhere from two weeks to several months.

Wednesday afternoon, after the Deans-Rowes emerged from the INS office, Brian
decided the experience hadn't been as bad as he'd feared.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: OCTOBER 4, 1996

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 10/4/96, pg. 2A)
In an article about long immigration lines published Thursday in some local
sections, the two final paragraphs were reversed. That created the impression
that Tom Schiltgen of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said: "Once you
are inside, they are really helpful and really efficient. It's not what I
expected." In fact, it was work-permit applicant Brian Deans-Rowes who said
that.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  OCTOBER 4, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HEROISM REWARD CONGRESS ALLOWS VIETNAMESE VET TO STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 644 words


A disabled former South Vietnamese Army major who risked his life to save four
American servicemen but was barred from immigrating to this country will be able
to stay after all, the U.S. Senate decided Thursday.

Just before adjourning, the Senate unanimously passed a special bill allowing
Nguyen Quy An, 53, of San Jose to become a permanent resident. The House has
also passed the bill, which requires the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to allow An to apply for citizenship as soon as President Clinton signs it - as
he is expected to do.

An lost his forearms when his helicopter was shot down during the Vietnam War.
He languished in Vietnam for years, stuck in a bureaucratic limbo that kept him
from immigrating to the United States with his daughter, who cares for him.

"I waited for 19 years before I could get out of Communist hands," An said
Thursday, "and 10 months to let the bill pass."

An had been condemned to a communist re-education camp after the war. But his
captors kicked him out after nine weeks, saying his injuries made him useless.

The time was too short for An to qualify for a humanitarian program that allowed
former South Vietnamese soldiers who had spent at least a year in the camps to
immigrate to the United States.

So a network of Vietnamese immigrants and U.S. veterans worked hard to publicize
An's situation, writing letters to local politicians and gathering signatures.

A young Vietnamese emigre in San Jose launched a signature-gathering campaign.
And in January 1994, the White House helped An and his daughter, Kim Ngoc, come
to the United States under the status of "humanitarian parole." But that did not
allow them to stay permanently.

An could have applied for political asylum but did not because he feared his
24-year-old daughter would have had to return to Vietnam alone. As soon as he
becomes a citizen, An can sponsor his daughter to become a permanent resident.

"Nothing is going to happen to either of them to make them leave," said Rep. Zoe
Lofgren, D-San Jose, who sponsored the bill in the House of Representatives.

"I'm overjoyed and almost speechless," said retired Army Col. Bob Stratiff, 64,
of Virginia, one of the four men whose life was saved by An. "It's been a long,
long struggle. I was really worried that this would ever get out of the
political maze. Doors would open, and then they would shut."

Noboru Masuoka, a retired Air Force colonel who lives in Sunnyvale and has been
working for five years to help An, said he planned to "just sit back and relax"
after the congressional action.

"At least I got that off of my mind," Masuoka said. "It really makes me feel
good when I help somebody."

An became a hero after rescuing four downed U.S. soldiers in enemy territory in
Laos. While on a joint U.S.-South Vietnamese mission, he came upon a burning
U.S. Army helicopter that had been hit by enemy fire after dropping off Green
Berets.

An guided his helicopter to a safe landing in the jungle and flew the crew
members to safety. For his heroism, An was awarded a Distinguished Flying Cross,
but the Communists took it away.

The next year, An's own helicopter was shot down by enemy fire.

An tried to escape from Vietnam four times but was caught each time, and he
spent more than two years in jail. He supported himself by tutoring students in
math and growing orchids and with money sent by relatives abroad.

An lives in San Jose with his daughter. Kim Ngoc works two jobs to support her
father, who has been unable to find work.

An has been fitted with prosthetic arms donated by a man who also lost his arms.
And he is taking an accounting class, hoping to find work.

He said Thursday that if he can find a good job, he hopes his daughter will be
able to attend college. And even if he is working, An said, he'll take computer
classes, too.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS FILE PHOTOGRAPH
Nguyen Quy An
[961004 LO 1B 1; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  OCTOBER 6, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SCAM ARTISTS WORK LINE OUTSIDE INS;
SPOTS FOR SALE: IMMIGRANTS OFFERED TICKETS TO ENTER S.J. OFFICE - FOR UP TO
$100.

BYLINE: JOHN HUBNER AND CAROLYN JUNG, MERCURY NEWS STAFF WRITERS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1447 words


Hundreds of immigrants camping through the night outside the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in downtown San Jose are being preyed upon by
hustlers who are charging $40 to $100 to bring people to the head of the line
and get them inside.
Without identifying themselves, three Mercury News reporters were able to
purchase immediate access to the line, and ultimately the INS office, ahead of
hundreds of others.

It is unclear whether the hustlers are working with anyone inside the INS
office, which issues numbered tickets for entry to the office. But those selling
the tickets could not be shepherding people through the door again and again
without at least the tacit approval of one or more of the security guards who
control the flow into the office.

INS officials said they had no idea people were selling access to their downtown
office. The same response was given by representatives at the General Services
Administration, which is in charge of the federal building, and the Federal
Protective Service, which employs the security guards.

But the scam, and the guards' involvement, was confirmed by one of the hustlers
and witnessed by the Mercury News.

On Monday, three reporters joined the INS line, the first arriving at 2 a.m.,
the others a few hours later. Shortly after the office opened at 7:30, two
reporters saw a shabbily dressed man wearing a black baseball cap sell a
numbered ticket that would get the bearer inside the INS office. The amount
appeared to be $70.

At 8:45, a young man wearing a black leather jacket approached the security
guard who was controlling access. "Are you still helping out your own people?"
the guard asked the young man, who replied that he was. The guard let him in and
the young man came out of the INS office moments later, holding a numbered
ticket. At the time, there were about 400 people in line behind him.

Undercover assignment

A reporter who did not identify himself then approached the young man and told
him in Spanish that he wanted to get inside.

"Well, I can give you a number," the young man said, handing the reporter a
ticket. "This ticket is for today, you can see the date and the time. You just
need to wait an hour to be seen."

The reporter paid $40 for the number and left. Moments later, two other
reporters who also did not identify themselves approached the young man, who
called himself "Oscar."

The couple explained they needed help with Adjustment of Status forms for
permanent residency, a document-heavy, time-consuming process that is the
primary reason why immigrants wait in line for up to 24 hours. On a typical day,
the local INS office processes only 40 such adjustments.

Oscar said no more Adjustment of Status numbers were being given out, but for
$60, he would get one of the reporters inside so she could pick up documents for
a green-card replacement. Holding blank forms in one hand, Oscar approached the
door with the reporter in tow.

"I filled these out, I can go in now, right?" Oscar said to the guard. The guard
nodded and Oscar and the reporter went inside and got the forms and a number.

Back outside, Oscar said, "When you get the forms filled out, come back with
your photos and fingerprints and I'll get you in, no problem. Call my beeper
first and I'll have it all set up."

The next morning, one of the reporters returned and identified himself to Oscar.

"I'm a Colombian and I came down to help a friend of mine from Colombia who
works for the photo shop," Oscar said. "I saw that (immigration) attorneys were
paying people $100 to sleep in line. I slept out myself for one night but it
wasn't worth the $100. I saw an opportunity, and started selling places in
line."

'Informal' deal

Oscar, who refused to give his last name, obviously has a relationship with one
or more of the security guards, but claimed it is informal.

A guard or guards not only let him in the INS door, ahead of hundreds who endure
a night in often chilly fog, but one or more of the guards appears to be working
closely with Oscar.

"Sometimes after somebody has paid me, I go up to a guard and say, 'Hey man, can
you help me out with that guy over there?' " Oscar said. "Then I borrow the
security guard's pen and give it to the guy who paid me. The guy goes up to the
security guard and says, 'Hey man, I found your pen.' The guard takes it, checks
to make sure it is his, and then lets the guy in.

"I haven't paid anybody off," Oscar continued, "but at the end of yesterday, a
guard said, 'Hey, you got three numbers this morning. I have to make a living,
too.' I believe he was looking for a pay-off, a hook-up. I was going to give him
something this morning, but he wasn't on duty."

The guard Oscar was referring to was not on duty at the door later in the week,
either.

'It does concern us'

After learning from the Mercury News what was occurring outside the INS, Tom
Schiltgen, director of the INS San Francisco district office, said, "I'm not
sure we have responsibility over this issue, but it does concern us."

Schiltgen explained that the General Services Administration has responsibility
for the federal building and the land outside the building, and that Federal
Protective Services has responsibility for security on federal property.

"We are going to be in contact with the GSA with regards to security and
allegations of wrongdoing by members of the security staff; we will ask GSA to
investigate," Schiltgen said.

But Mary Filippini, a GSA spokeswoman in San Francisco, points the finger at the
INS. If security guards are letting scalpers through the INS doors, Filippini
says, "My assumption is that they are under orders from someone at the INS. It's
their system."

Filippini added that she has asked a criminal investigator at the GSA to look
into the matter.

Like Schiltgen, Filippini said she is concerned about the allegations, but said
that unless someone comes forward to complain, her agency would have no way of
knowing what was going on.

But Petrona J. Arguello, a Salvadoran applying for permanent residency, says
that when she tried to bring what was happening in the line to the attention of
security personnel, she was ignored.

Arguello arrived at 7 a.m. recently and found herself in a line two blocks long.

"A man approached me and asked if I was interested in moving up further in the
line," she says. "He told me it would only cost $70. I declined."

On her third morning in line, Arguello arrived at 5 a.m. and noticed "a pregnant
woman who was fighting for the 60th or so place in line. Everyone was telling
her, 'Pay for your place, or go to the end of the line!' "

Arguello summoned a security guard and told him about the pregnant woman. The
guard moved the pregnant woman back to her original place in line. Arguello then
asked the guard "to check the first 60 people (in line) to see if they had
documents showing they had business with the INS because I had seen many of them
two days before doing the same thing: getting numbers and selling them. But the
security guard didn't do anything."

Attorneys' pitch

Oscar, Arguello and other sources claim that another scam is going on outside
the INS office: Some attorneys may be taking advantage of the chaos in front of
the office to charge people large sums to fill out applications.

Dolores San Miguel, co-partner of Dolores and Susie's Immigration Services on
Story Road, a business that assists people in filling out INS documents, said
one woman seeking help in filling out the Adjustment application was told by one
attorney that it could be done for $6,000. The woman went to San Miguel's office
instead and was charged about $200, San Miguel said.

San Jose is not the only place where such problems have occurred. In 1994, in
front of the INS office in Los Angeles, hustlers working with a security guard
were selling places in line, said Richard Rogers, district director for that
office.

INS officials began working with community organizations throughout the Los
Angeles area, training people to help immigrants fill out the complicated forms.

Now, instead of standing in long lines, immigrants mail their forms to post
office boxes. If people must come into an INS office, they are given an
appointment ahead of time. The long lines have disappeared and so have the
hustlers, Rogers said.

INS officials here say they are looking for ways to remedy the long lines in San
Jose, including shifting employees from the naturalization program to
information services.

Meanwhile, on Friday morning, a slow day for the INS, Oscar was back at his
post, looking for business.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: 'A man approached me and asked if I was interested in moving up further
in the line,' Petrona J. Arguello says. 'He told me it would only cost $70. I
declined.' She says she was ignored when she told guards.
[961006 FR 26A 2; color]
PHOTO: LEN LAHMAN - MERCURY NEWS
'Oscar,' in front, wearing cap, works outside the San Jose INS office selling
places in line.
[961006 FR 26A 1; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 8, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS LINES AND SCAMS COULD EASILY DISAPPEAR;
FOLLOW THE LOS ANGELES EXAMPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 395 words


FOR Sale - American citizenship - $100 - No questions asked.

There is no such sign at the San Jose immigration office, but the words might as
well be plastered all over the federal building downtown. Hustlers have been
charging $40 to $100 to bring people to the head of the long lines and into the
building. Worse, government security guards could be involved in the scam.

Posing as immigrants recently, Mercury News reporters were able to buy numbered
tickets for entry into the Immigration and Naturalization Service office. Buying
the access allowed them to leapfrog over hundreds of immigrants who had been
waiting for hours or days. Reporters also witnessed hustlers selling entry
tickets to others in line.

The investigation didn't prove without a doubt that government officials
accepted kickbacks or profited in some other wayBut it's hard to believe that
these hustlers can obtain the entry tickets so easily without inside help. Two
years ago, hustlers working with a security guard in the Los Angeles INS office
operated the same scam.

On the corruption scale, this is small potatoes. But it stinks to high heaven
anyway because the crime is sacrilegious.

This is about negligent government allowing parts of the American dream, U.S.
residency and citizenship, to be sold like overpriced concert or football
tickets. It's another one of those sleazy screw-ups that chips away at
government's integrity and public trust. To immigrants, the scam suggest that
American government might not be much cleaner than the corruption they left
behind.

Some heads should roll at the San Jose federal building. It doesn't matter
whether they're immigration service heads or the heads of the Government
Services Agency, which is responsible for security. The last thing the public
needs is an argument between two bureaucracies over who messed up.

While investigators sort out the wrongdoing, San Jose immigration officials can
stop the abuse right away. It's not as if the scam is something new. The Los
Angeles INS office had the same problem two years ago and took care of it. They
recruited more community organizations to help immigrants fill out complicated
forms. They asked immigrants to mail the forms to post office boxes. They
arranged appointments by phone. Pretty soon, the long lines disappeared and so
did the hustlers.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LEN LAHMAN - MERCURY NEWS
The line forms last week outside the INS office in San Jose
[961008 ED 8B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 9, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEDI-CAL FRAUD UNIT TO USE INS DATABASE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 66 words


San Diego County decided Tuesday to begin using Immigration and Naturalization
Service databases to track down border crossers trying to illegally obtain
Medi-Cal benefits. On a unanimous vote, the board of supervisors created a
countywide Medi-Cal Fraud Task Force that will administer the program aimed at
the 646 people who apply for restricted Medi-Cal benefits in the county each
month.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 10, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OFFICERS CHECK FOR SCALPERS OUTSIDE INS IN SAN JOSE;
OFFICE CHANGES SYSTEM TO SPEED FORM PROCESSING

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG AND JOHN HUBNER, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 621 words


Undercover and uniformed federal officers began patrolling outside the
Immigration and Naturalization Service office in downtown San Jose this week
after reports that hustlers have been selling immigrants spots at the front of
the line.

Sunday, the Mercury News reported that the 400 or more immigrants who have been
camping out almost daily at the INS office were being preyed upon by scalpers
selling immediate access to the line, and ultimately to the INS office inside.

It wasn't clear whether the scam involved anyone inside the INS office, which
was issuing ticketed numbers for entry. But those selling the tickets, for as
much as $100, could not be shepherding people through the door again and again
without at least the tacit approval of one or more of the security guards who
control the flow into the office.

The General Services Administration, which is in charge of the federal building,
and the Federal Protective Service, which employs the security guards, have
begun investigating the scalping allegations, according to Mary Filippini, GSA
public information officer.

"GSA will continue to keep an eye on the guard issues and line issues out
there," Filippini said. "It's certainly something we don't condone. And we'll do
whatever we can to find some solutions."

She declined to detail what the GSA is doing to investigate allegations that
guards were involved in the scam.

The INS also has changed the way it handles Adjustment of Status forms, a
document-heavy, time-consuming process that is the primary reason immigrants
have had to wait in line at the South First Street office for up to 24 hours.

Handling all daily

Before, only 40 such adjustments were handled each day. But now, opting not to
examine the applications as thoroughly as before, INS officials are processing
all Adjustment of Status forms that come in daily.

"There's a chance that may cause problems down the line because we haven't
examined (the forms) as closely," said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the INS
San Francisco district office. "We're also still looking at deploying people
from other programs into information services. Other changes may follow."

The measures seem to be having an effect. A week ago, immigrants were camping
out overnight with sleeping bags and lawn chairs in a line that stretched up
First Street to the Pavilion. Tuesday, though, there were only 121 people in
line, Rummery said; and Wednesday, only 61.

One has disappeared

Also, at least one of those who had been selling access to the INS office has
disappeared, as had the crush at the door.

Processing as many Adjustment of Status applications as possible has resulted in
far fewer frantic people approaching the security guard with questions about
forms and access.

"INS is going to try some different systems that we hope will cut the line down
and give us a little more control of the ticketing process," Filippini said.
"With these efforts and the federal protective officers keeping an eye on
things, we should be able to resolve the problem."

How L.A. did it

The downtown Los Angeles INS office cleared up similar problems with long lines
and scalpers two years ago, in large part by establishing two post office boxes
where applicants could mail forms, and by issuing office appointments ahead of
time.

INS officials here are unsure yet whether similar measures will be put in place
in San Jose.

"L.A. is one of our busiest offices. There's more attention there, more
resources focused there," said Ron Rogers, spokesman for the Western region of
the INS. "It's not easy to say that the solutions that worked in L.A. will work
in San Jose. But we are looking to make the process more efficient."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 10, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE: INS FORM TOO CONFUSING DEPORTATION: RULING SAYS BAFFLING DOCUMENTS DENIED
IMMIGRANTS THEIR RIGHTS.

BYLINE: PEGGY ANDERSEN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Thousands of immigrants facing deportation for using false documents were denied
their right to a hearing by a form so loaded with jargon that even some federal
agents did not understand it, a judge has ruled.

U.S. District Judge John Coughenour found the confusing forms and procedures
violated the due-process clause of the Fifth Amendment and were
"constitutionally deficient."

He ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to revise the documents in
question so the rights and consequences at issue are stated "simply and
plainly." He also ordered the INS to provide Spanish-language versions of the
forms and to advise all affected immigrants - including those already deported -
of their right to a hearing.

In addition, he ordered a publicity campaign covering the United States and
Central and South America, the 800 non-profit operations providing immigration
assistance and other international organizations and community-outreach
networks, and publication in the Federal Register.

The Justice Department, which represented the INS in the case, is reviewing
Coughenour's ruling, which was signed Oct. 2, Joe Krovisky of the INS said
Wednesday from Washington, D.C. The agency has 60 days to make a decision on an
appeal, said Krovisky, who declined further comment.

The documents were written by the INS under a 1990 law that sought to penalize
immigrants for using false documents. Employees were sanctioned under a 1983
law, but Congress determined that had not reduced illegal immigration.

False papers are ticket out

Under the law, immigrants who use false documents face deportation and permanent
exclusion from this country - even those who would be entitled to stay here with
their families under other provisions of immigration law.

Most of those affected are Spanish-speaking people who offer such documents in
seeking employment, said New York attorney Lee Gerlent of the American Civil
Liberties Union. The ACLU joined the National Immigration Center and other
parties in filing the class-action lawsuit in 1994.

About 4,000 people have been charged under the law, Coughenour said in a
preliminary March ruling.

When immigrants were arrested for using false documents, they were given an INS
document titled "Notice of Intent to Fine." Some also were given a second
document, "Notice of Rights/Waiver."

Both documents are provided in English only, though some INS offices provided
their own unofficial translations.

"The confusing nature of this language, whether in English or Spanish, is
manifestly evident from the record," Coughenour said.

The Notice of Intent to Fine form says the individual is ordered to "cease and
desist from violations and to pay a civil money penalty." It says the immigrant
can contest the notice by requesting a hearing within 60 days.

Hearing must be requested

It does not make clear that if no hearing is requested, the individual faces
deportation and permanent excludability, Coughenour said.

Many immigrants also received the Notice of Rights/Waiver form, which says
violation of document-fraud law makes them "excludable" and "deportable."

"Aside from this single reference" to those terms, there is no mention of the
severe consequences the immigrants face, the judge wrote. "Rather, the forms
repeatedly mention the fact that the alien is subject to a fine."

The two terms were "buried on the (Notice of Rights/Waiver) in a mountain of
inaccessible legal terminology and citations," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  OCTOBER 12, 1996 Saturday PENINSULA EDITION

LATINOS MARCH TODAY IN D.C. ISSUES: IMMIGRATION, $7 MINIMUM WAGE

BYLINE: JENNIFER MENA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1135 words


A march today in Washington, D.C., may be the largest Hispanic confluence ever,
but many Latinos believe it will fall short of original plans to make it a clone
of the Million Man March that invigorated the African-American community.

As many as 100,000 marchers from 39 states are expected to demand a streamlined
citizenship process, extended immigrant amnesty and a $7 hourly minimum wage.

Bay Area contingent

Organizers knew of only one group of 25 people from the Bay Area who traveled to
the march to protest against anti-immigrant legislation, defend civil rights and
promote local activism and voter registration. But big groups are expected from
New York, Chicago, Phoenix, Los Angeles, Houston and San Antonio, Texas, Little
Rock, Ark., Seattle and Portland, Ore.

Organizers and activists say the event, the first national march for Latino and
immigrants rights, is an important exercise for the Latino community, which has
never developed a strong national network, a widespread culture of activism or a
political unity based on common nationality.

But measuring against the Million Man March is unfair, they say. That event,
organized a year ago by Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, joined about
800,000 African-American men, whose numbers surpassed the size of the historic
1963 March on Washington organized by Martin Luther King Jr. Inspired by
Farrakhan's call to personal responsibility, some participants returned home and
began projects in their communities.

New step for Latinos

"The march is a triumph in and of itself. We cannot expect a million people here
when our people have never come to the nation's capitol," said Juan Jose
Gutierrez, a march organizer.

Latinos as a group are traditionally less outspoken about community problems and
less politically organized than African-Americans, who have spent decades
building political clout. While blacks have organized through their churches and
behind charismatic leaders, Latinos in America today lack such figures, and
their churches tend to shy away from political activity.

Unlike African-Americans who have shared a history of discrimination in the
United States, experts say, Latinos came to the United States at different times
from a variety of countries under unique situations. For example, Puerto Ricans
are U.S. citizens, Cubans are political refugees and Mexicans have low
naturalization rates. Their political interests are very different.

African-Americans "have been marching on Washington for 30, 40 years," said Lisa
Navarrete, spokeswoman for National Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy group
in Washington, D.C., which did not endorse the event because it did not have
full details about what demands would be presented. A smaller turnout "will not
reflect badly on the march or the issues," she said. "The number of people who
are going is a testament to how angry people are about legislation affecting
welfare, immigration and affirmative action."

In the Bay Area, some Latino groups said they'd heard little about the march and
daylong rally, which has been planned since 1993. Rage about Proposition 187 led
Gutierrez, executive director of One Stop Immigration and Education Center in
Los Angeles, to begin organizing the march with the endorsement of 62 Latino
organizations. But a shoestring budget and dependence on local activists to
rally people to the march left some areas underrepresented.

"We haven't even seen any students here who planned to go," said Francesca
Rivera, an affirmative action officer at the University of California, Berkeley
who was headed for Washington. "It's very far away, and I don't think enough
information got here."

After learning there was no local organizer in the Bay Area, Martina Ayala, a
Redwood City Latino activist, in mid-September began looking for people who
wanted to go. She rounded up 25 people who took a bus to Los Angeles and then
boarded a $230 charter flight to Washington, D.C.

"As daughters of immigrants, we are contributing members of this society," said
Ayala, who sold tamales at a church to raise funds for those who couldn't pay
their way. "We feel (legislation is threatening) a lot of what makes this
country great. We want to call attention to that, and we want to do something
about it."

Speakers at the daylong event include a host of congressional representatives
from around the country and AFL-CIO national Vice President Linda
Chavez-Thompson. Transportation Secretary Federico Pena and actor Edward James
Olmos may also appear, and music was to be provided by Joan Baez, Salsa King
Willie Colon and a Lighter Shade of Brown.

Organizers chose Oct. 12, Columbus Day, because it is also known as Dia de la
Raza or Day of the Race, which commemorates when new ethnic groups developed as
a result of the mixing of indigenous people and Europeans.

"This is a giant effort to get out the vote," said Gutierrez, who took a year's
leave to organize. "We want to energize and galvanize our community so they go
home and help organize others."

The march is also based on seven loose demands: constitutional rights for all,
affirmative action, free public education from kindergarten to university, more
free health services, more citizen police review boards, a $7 an hour minimum
wage and a new amnesty for undocumented workers.

Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Center, a Claremont Latino think
tank, said the activism is the result of legislation that hurts immigrants and
promotes racism. "Politics has become part of daily life for most Latinos,"
Pachon said. "That is why it is a logical step for many Latinos to take to
become involved. This march has resonated very well with Latino college-age
youth."

But in Pachon's opinion, the measure of the event's success will "be pure
numbers. If they get 75,000 to 100,000 people, it will be a success. Any less,
it will promote a negative image of our power to organize."

Despite their criticisms, Latino experts and activists hope the march goes down
in history.

Natalia Ramirez, the wife of a farmworker, is among those going to Washington
with the Redwood City group. She said recent legislation and the
anti-immigration sentiment scare her.

"Things have become very, very hard for us," said Ramirez, a native of Jalisco,
Mexico, who came to the United States in 1979. "This is a chance to put our feet
on the ground and stand up for our rights and for those who can't make it to the
event."

Guillermo Niebla, a San Jose teacher who will performing traditional Mexican
dances with his troupe at the march, said, "With all the things that are going
on with immigration, we need to make a statement - that we are together. We need
to let the government know there are a lot of us and that we need to be
represented."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 4B of Morning Final Edition

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 13, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINOS CLIMB ECONOMIC LADDER IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, LATINOS ARE STEADILY
BREAKING INTO THE MIDDLE CLASS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 329 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Southern California's Latinos are steadily breaking into the middle class,
drawing incomes comparable to those of other groups and buying houses at similar
rates, a study found.

Four times more U.S.-born Latino households in the region are part of the middle
class than are in poverty, according to the report sponsored by Pepperdine
University's Institute for Public Policy.

Education is not necessarily the key to Latinos' success, the study released
Wednesday found.

Instead, Latinos typically pool resources among family members working in
blue-collar and service-industry jobs, said Gregory Rodriguez, a research fellow
at Pepperdine who wrote the report. More than among other populations, Rodriguez
said, Latino households typically include several wage earners, often from
different generations.

"It is generally assumed, in the academia and in the media, that Latinos are not
going anywhere," he said. "In fact, there is considerable economic movement and
progress over time."

U.S. natives generally fare better than foreign-born.

"The longer immigrant families reside in the U.S., the more likely they are to
become middle class," the study said. "U.S.-born children and grandchildren of
Latino immigrants fare considerably better than the immigrant generation."

The study is good news for Southern California, with its large numbers of
Latinos, researchers said.

"The future of L.A. has a lot to do with how Latinos do," said Joel Kotkin, a
writer who is also a senior fellow at Pepperdine and edited the study's results.

Latinos, who in 1990 constituted about a third of Southern California's
population, only account for about a quarter of all residents identified as
middle class.

But the study calls the rate of upward mobility remarkable considering that
two-thirds of Latino households in the region are headed by immigrants, many of
whom arrived virtually penniless, not speaking English and with only primary
school educations.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 18, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLERK: INS THREW OUT FINGERPRINTS CLAIM FUELS CONTROVERSY OVER CITIZENSHIP
PROCESS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service clerk said 4,000 to 6,000
citizenship fingerprint cards were thrown out before the prints were checked by
the FBI.

"They were put in the trash," Kathy Bell, an office automation clerk, said
Wednesday.

Bell, 41, who joined the INS in 1993 and worked on processing fingerprint cards
for citizenship applications, described crates of fingerprint cards sitting in
INS offices, ignored for months.

Bell's revelations were the latest development in a controversy surrounding the
Clinton administration's Citizenship USA program.

INS officials in Los Angeles denied the charges.

"We're not sure what in the heck she's talking about," said Rosemary Melville,
deputy district director in Los Angeles.

"It's just appalling to me that an employee that had access to me . . . and
everyone else would just make an accusation like this. Why wouldn't she have
raised this in meetings?"

FBI criminal background checks are mandated by law. Certain convicted criminals
are barred from becoming U.S. citizens.

Bell already has testified before a congressional subcommittee investigating
alleged improprieties in the Citizenship USA program.

Rep. Bill Zeliff, R-New Hampshire, heads a House subcommittee investigating an
unprecedented naturalization rush that has resulted in the 1996 swearing-in of a
record 1.1 million new citizens.

"I think conservative factions in the Republican Party clearly see this increase
in citizenship as not in their self-interest," said Harry Pachon, president of
the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, a Latino think tank.

Bell said that crates containing the thousands of fingerprint cards were carted
away by janitors in September before they were sent to the FBI. She believes the
records were destroyed.

She quoted Los Angeles' top INS official, Donald Neufeld, as saying: "Let's get
rid of them. Let's not have them sitting here. We don't want anybody seeing
them."

Neufeld was on jury duty and could not be reached Thursday for comment.

But Melville said no INS official would give orders to destroy fingerprint
cards.

"There's absolutely no way he made that order," Melville said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 20, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATION NIGHTMARE HAS HAPPY ENDING

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A Walnut Creek woman deported to Russia three months ago returned to the Bay
Area on Friday evening on a permanent visa.

Laura Tedeeva-Korewicki, 37, was met at San Francisco International Airport by
her husband, three daughters and a crowd of well-wishers who presented her with
an armful of flowers.

"It's a time of tears for the injustice for what they did to me. I didn't
deserve it," Tedeeva-Korewicki said. "But it's a happy end."

She was ordered to leave the United States after missing an immigration hearing
in 1994 because of a clerk's mistake.

But several years and thousands of dollars later, a U.S. Embassy official in
Moscow called Tedeeva-Korewicki on Wednesday and told her to book a flight, her
husband, Andre Korewicki, said Thursday.

"We went through such an ordeal that we didn't have the strength really to enjoy
and be happy," he said. "But she's very excited."

Tedeeva-Korewicki, a former Moscow pharmacology professor, sought political
asylum in the United States in 1992, saying she feared reprisal for supplying
rebel troops with medical supplies during a civil war in the Republic of
Georgia.

Even after INS officials denied her petition, Tedeeva-Korewicki remained in the
United States. She eventually met and married Korewicki, a U.S. citizen, in
February 1994.

On the mistaken advice of an INS clerk, the couple began a new petition process
for spousal citizenship and abandoned Tedeeva-Korewicki's request for asylum.

When she missed an asylum hearing in June 1994, an immigration judge ordered her
deported.

The couple fought the order, arguing Tedeeva-Korewicki's case before federal and
appellate court judges at their own cost. Tedeeva-Korewicki, considered a flight
risk, also spent two weeks in an Oakland jail.

When it appeared that even Rep. Bill Baker, R-Walnut Creek, and U.S. Sens.
Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein couldn't help, Tedeeva-Korewicki agreed to
return to Moscow in July.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SUSAN POLLARD - CONTRA COSTA TIMES
Laura Tedeeva-Korewicki is reunited with daughters Casia, 12, and Nana, 16.
[961020 CA 3B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 22, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON SAYS THOUSANDS OF NEW CITIZENS MAY BE CRIMINALS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 277 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Gov. Pete Wilson on Monday called on U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno to release
files of suspected criminal immigrant applicants for citizenship, saying
thousands may have been naturalized without background checks.

Republican lawmakers contend "Citizenship USA," a drive to expedite
naturalization of more than a million people, is a thinly disguised program to
swell Democratic voting rolls before the November election.

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials have responded that the
program is intended to reduce a backlog of applications, many of which piled up
after the immigrant amnesty program of 1986.

Wilson amplified the GOP criticism Monday, saying the citizenship streamlining
process is bypassing the FBI record check, offering immigrant criminals "a safe
haven in the United States and making them eligible for taxpayer-financed
benefits reserved for citizens of this nation."

In a letter to Reno, Wilson said, "The federal government should be deporting
such dangerous criminals, not rushing to naturalize them."

The letter to the Justice Department chief continued: "We have long known it was
failing to adequately deport criminal aliens. Now, we learn INS is actually
allowing them to become United States citizens."

Carole Florman, an INS spokeswoman in Washington, D.C., branded the governor's
allegations "pretty much absurd."

At a news conference, Wilson produced two INS employees, document clerk Kathy
Bell and investigator James Humble-Sanchez, who have made allegations of
wrongdoing by their agency.

"The system wasn't perfect before," Humble-Sanchez said. "Now it's pushed past
its breaking point."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 27, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAILED JAIL PLAN COST $4 MILLION

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A failed experiment to ease prison overcrowding by housing immigrant felons at a
Navy brig cost federal taxpayers at least $4 million after inmates tried to burn
down the facility in March.

Half the price tag represents medical expenses resulting from the fire that
permanently ended the program just 16 days after it had started, according to
the U.S. Marshals Service. The remaining $2 million was spent on initial
construction.

At least one critic of the plan has called for a congressional hearing into the
handling of the fire at the Miramar Naval Air Station brig in northern San
Diego.

"If this had happened (in a local agency), someone would have lost their job,"
said Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham, R-Escondido, who had been critical of the
plan before it was approved by U.S. Defense and Justice departments.

Local resources were also taxed in extinguishing the March 29 blaze, restoring
peace and transporting inmates to local hospitals and other jails, he said.
Those expenses have not been calculated, he added.

The first-ever civilian jail on a military base was pushed by U.S. Attorney Alan
Bersin as a temporary measure to ease overcrowding of federal jails caused by
increased enforcement along the U.S.-Mexico border.

Navy officials, who did not want to share the facility, finally relented after
the Justice Department promised to set up a separate section of the brig for the
civilian criminals and hire a company to run it.

The jail had been open only 16 days when several inmates, upset over limited
privileges, set fire to mattresses and chairs. Witnesses said some inmates were
inadvertently locked in their cells during the confusion.

Several of the inmates say they plan to sue the federal government.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 30, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOLE RELUCTANTLY GOES ON THE ATTACK, RISKING THE LOSS OF NEW VOTERS TO THE
DEMOCRATS FOR YEARS TO COME THE IMMIGRANT WEDGE

BYLINE: Frank del Olmo

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 808 words


EVER THINK you'd hear Republicans such as Pete Wilson, Bob Dole and Newt
Gingrich demanding more, not less, red tape and bureaucracy in the federal
government?
That is, in effect, what they are doing by raising alarums about the surge in
citizenship applications by recent immigrants and calling on Congress to slow
the process down.

The basis for their concern, they insist, is not that new citizens are
registering in vast numbers to vote as Democrats. No, it's because of a canard
raised by a few disgruntled employees of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service, who claim that "thousands" of the people being naturalized this year
have criminal records, which would have made them ineligible for citizenship.

INS officials admit that some ineligible applicants have slipped through, but
insist that the numbers are negligible. The United States' busiest INS office,
in Los Angeles, has handled more than 218,000 naturalizations so far this year,
according to District Director Richard Rogers. Upon review, only 120 were found
to have been wrongly approved, a number not out of line with the rate in the
past, and they are now being reviewed even further for possible withdrawal of
citizenship.

Rogers' candor did not deter Wilson from calling two news conferences last week
to denounce the INS in ludicrous language. The California governor accused the
federal government of welcoming "dangerous criminal aliens" with "open arms,"
and setting the stage for "massive voter fraud."

House Speaker Gingrich, in a speech delivered in Michigan recently, said that
the INS is allowing "drug dealers, rapists, murderers and armed robbers" to
become citizens, adding that "what makes it doubly infuriating is that they get
to vote."

That is the first time I can recall anyone accusing the INS of coddling
immigrants. Still, these outbursts are getting little attention in the media
because most journalists see them for what they really are - political posturing
in the waning days of an election campaign that Republicans fear they are going
to lose.

Nobody knows how many of the 1 million citizens naturalized by INS in the last
year have actually registered to vote. Estimates range from 200,000-300,000 in
California alone, and big numbers are expected to turn out Nov. 5 in key states
such as Texas and Florida. This election will be the first time these new
citizens have had a chance to cast ballots since Republicans began routinely
using immigration as a "wedge" issue - an emotional issue that divides voters
along ethnic or class lines.

It doesn't take a political science degree to figure out that many of these new
voters are likely to vote for Democrats rather than Republicans. That point no
doubt is what motivated Vice President Al Gore to streamline the INS'
naturalization procedures under the Clinton administration's program to
"reinvent" government by reducing bureaucracy.

As if to validate Republican fears, last week the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute,
a Latino think tank based at Claremont Graduate School, made public the results
of a survey that shows new citizens of Latin American background overwhelmingly
in favor of President Clinton: Almost 85 percent of the respondents to a
telephone survey said they would vote for the president's re-election, only 5
percent for GOP challenger Dole.

Wilson was the first nationally prominent Republican to use immigrants as a
political whipping boy when he seized on Proposition 187, the anti-illegal
immigration initiative of 1994, to rescue his floundering campaign for
re-election. He hasn't changed his tune since, and now may be dragging Dole and
the rest of the GOP down with him.

Although Dole has been lagging in the polls, he initially resisted playing the
immigration card in his campaign, largely at the behest of moderate Republicans
such as Colin Powell and running-mate Jack Kemp, a California native who
courageously opposed Proposition 187 two years ago.

Now that Dole is working hard to win California, he is embracing the spirit of
Proposition 187. But he doesn't do it with the conviction of Wilson or the fire
of Gingrich. He sounded halfhearted in a speech two weeks ago in Riverside when
he suggested that "criminal aliens" may be getting citizenship.

I suspect Dole finally bought into this not because he really believes in it but
because GOP strategists have advised him that the immigration "wedge" issue can
turn out enough Republican voters to hold onto Congress and the state
Legislature.

Unfortunately for the Republican Party, even half-hearted immigrant bashing has
risks. This year, a million newly minted Americans are listening to their first
political campaign. If they are alienated by what they are hearing from Wilson,
Gingrich and Dole, they could be lost to the Democrats for a long time to come.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Frank del Olmo is assistant to the editor of the Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Bob Dole, with wife Elizabeth, accepts the applause of California Gov.
Pete Wilson after Dole outlined his position on affirmative action Monday in San
Diego.
[961030 ED 7B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 1, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT ADVOCATES CAUTION NEW VOTERS THEY SAY GOP'S HUNT FOR CRIMINALS
STIGMATIZES ALL

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As congressional investigators pressed a search Thursday for improperly
naturalized new citizens, Latino groups worried that new voters may encounter
obstacles to casting their ballots.

They set up an Election Day hotline for voters to report harassment or
intimidation.

The House Government Reform and Oversight Committee sent letters to the governor
of California and five other states with big immigrant populations, warning that
a review of records "confirm our fears" that immigrants with dangerous criminal
backgrounds have become citizens.

The FBI gave the committee criminal records of 50,000 people who were
naturalized. Staffers are reviewing them to see whether the violations warranted
denial of citizenship.

After reviewing 20,000 records by Thursday, the committee said about one-third
of the records, or about 6,666, showed at least one conviction and about 5
percent, or 1,000, had felony convictions that would disqualify an individual
for citizenship.

Files are raw data

Both the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the FBI have warned that the
files contain only raw data and often do not reflect the charges' final outcome.

But a new Republican radio ad, released Thursday by the Bob Dole campaign,
accuses the Clinton administration of "forcing through over a million
applications for U.S. citizenship" including some "aliens with criminal records"
so they can vote in the upcoming election.

The first letter from the House committee went to California Gov. Pete Wilson.
The others went to the governors of Arizona, Illinois, Texas, Florida and New
Jersey.

The hotline phone is necessary because of a "concerted effort by Republicans to
intimidate the new voters," said Lisa Navarrete, an official for the National
Council of La Raza, a Washington-based Latino-rights lobbying group.

"If people have been naturalized in error, then there needs to be
un-naturalizing going on," she said. "But let us be clear: These efforts are
political, not just to embarrass the Clinton administration but to smear the
reputation and character of the 1.2 million new citizens. And we are outraged."

Hotline number

In California, the hotline number is (800) 346-2536. Bilingual operators will
take complaints and forward problems to the Justice Department and other
attorneys. The hotline is staffed from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.

Other groups endorsing the hotline include the Congressional Hispanic Caucus,
Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, the Organization of Chinese Americans,
Migrant Refugee Services, the National Asian Pacific Americans Legal Consortium
and the United States Catholic Conference.

"This has been a tough year for immigrants," said Matthew Finucane, executive
director of the Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance. "Immigrants have been
humiliated by legislation, been cut off from the safety net of benefits,
scapegoated as the cause of all our problems.

"Now they have the additional problem of intimidation."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 5, 1996 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

DEMAND RISING FOR NON-ENGLISH VOTING MATERIALS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 468 words


Demand for non-English voting information has increased this year following a
rules change that allows the elderly to take citizenship tests in their native
language.

Voter registration surged as record numbers of legal residents became citizens.
But not all the new voters were required to take citizenship tests in English.
For local election officials, this underscored the need for bilingual ballots in
this first general election since the Immigration and Naturalization Service
changed its rules.

For instance, sample ballots in Santa Clara County are now available for the
first time in Chinese as part of an ongoing effort to comply with federal laws
and make voting easier for those whose primary language is not English.

More languages added

Bilingual ballots have been of fered for years in English-Spanish and
English-Vietnamese in Santa Clara and Alameda counties to serve large numbers of
immigrants from Latin America and Southeast Asia. But a swell of new citizens
from mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan during the past two years, and
requests by those immigrants, persuaded local election officials to print
ballots in their native languages, said Elma Rosas Martinez, a spokeswoman for
the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters.

There are 19,338 county voters who identified themselves as having been born in
China, Taiwan or Hong Kong, Martinez said, which is up about 49 percent from
three years ago.

Some 20,964 of the 807,767 county voters said they were born in Spanish-speaking
countries, and 25,913 said they were born in Vietnam.

Following federal rules

Under the federal Voting Rights Act, election officials are required to provide
ballot information in languages other than English whenever more than 5 percent
of the population or 10,000 local residents don't understand English well enough
to fully participate in an election.

The registrar's office mails a sample ballot in English and Spanish to every
voter in the county, Martinez said. Sample ballots in Vietnamese or Chinese are
sent to those who marked on their voter registration applications that they were
born in those countries, she added.

In Alameda County, election officials added Chinese-English sample ballots four
years ago, and 68 polling places are known to serve large numbers of
Chinese-Americans, many of them in Oakland's Chinatown, said county Registrar
Brad Clark. In addition, 29 precincts are staffed by workers who speak Spanish
and English, Clark said.

Bilingual sample ballots have never been used in San Mateo County because the
number of voters who are not proficient in English is minimal, said William
Jackson, election division manager. However, anyone who needs a ballot in
Spanish, Jackson added, can view a translation posted at each of the 502
precincts.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 4B of Morning Final Edition

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 5, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DREAMS AND LINES WHILE MILLIONS OF AMERICANS CHOOSE NOT TO VOTE TODAY, BAD LUCK
FORCES MANY IMMIGRANTS TO WATCH AND WAIT THEIR TURN

BYLINE: DIANA GRIEGO ERWIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 704 words


ABOUT A year ago, Victoria Leon and her husband, Juan, decided to become
naturalized citizens. The decision was long in coming. Juan had been here 36
years; Victoria, 32.

Over the years, they'd raised four children in the United States to adulthood.
Between them, they had worked a series of construction, cannery and housekeeping
jobs that, by and by, allowed them to build their dream home in a quiet section
of Sacramento.

Because they were legal residents and therefore entitled to work, neither saw a
reason to go through the citizenship process. Then anti-immigrant sentiments and
a harsher political agenda made them feel like targets, painting immigrants as
leeches who come to suck off America's bounty, giving little in return.

In 1992 and again this year, they've listened to election-year bashing in their
adopted country with broken hearts. Some of the rhetoric accuses immigrants of
taking all the jobs; other attacks imply they all go on welfare. Of course, you
can't have it both ways.

The Leons have never not worked since coming to America from their native
Durango, Mexico. When their children were young, she cared for them by day and
worked at a cannery by night.

"If I slept two or three hours a day, it was a lot," she said. "All this time we
have worked. We have been good people. We've never gotten in trouble."

And so, Victoria Leon, 51, decided she wanted a voice - and a vote. "Getting to
vote became very important."

Her sentiments seem to be shared by many. The Latino vote has grown by about 29
percent - or about 1.47 million new Latino voters - since 1992, according to a
recent analysis by the Southwest Voter Research Institute.

The couple turned in their applications for naturalization and shortly
thereafter Juan Leon was notified of his June interview date. Two weeks later,
on July 3, he became a naturalized citizen in an outdoor ceremony at Hughes
Stadium.

Victoria Leon wanted them to be naturalized together, but it didn't work out
that way. Her interview was July 30.

"I started worrying about whether I'd be in time to vote, but (Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials) said there shouldn't be any problem," she
said.

Her interview came and went and so did the weeks after. She expected to get a
ceremony date within weeks as her husband had. She went to the immigration
office. They told her to keep waiting.

On September 30, seven days before the deadline to register, Victoria Leon tried
one last time. She arrived at the INS's Sacramento office at 8 a.m. Her number
was 80.

The INS's Sacramento office is always busy. Numbers flash on electronic boards
directing people to one of three counters. Attorneys wearing business suits
huddle with clients in turbans. Some of the immigrants wear traditional dress,
but most have long ago adopted American fashions.

A Filipino legal resident wears a T-shirt, jeans, white socks and Birkenstocks.
A teen from Honduras comes comfy in gray sweats. An East Indian woman wears
stirrup pants under her sari.

People pass the time however they can. A woman arrives with three bottles of
juice for her toddler - just in case. A Vietnamese woman works a crossword
puzzle. A Russian youth battles the enemy on a hand-held computer game.

The day Victoria Leon went, officials stopped calling the "information only"
customers after a few hours. She and others with uncalled numbers were told to
wait - and did, all day.

In the end, after 5 p.m., she was told that getting a ceremony date could take
months. Friday she learned she will become a citizen on Nov. 13.

And so, Victoria Leon - who has canned fruits and vegetables for our tables,
cleaned houses and raised her children as Americans for the past three decades -
cannot vote today.

While some of us throw away our voting privilege, she laments not being able to
participate. "I feel very bad," she said. "Everyone in my family will vote but
me."

Lionel Nurse, chief of the INS's Sacramento office, verified that immigration
officials are behind in processing applications. Many applicants are waiting six
months for an interview date.

"The dates are set by a machine," he said.

Welcome to America. Take a number and good luck.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Diana Griego Erwin is a Sacramento Bee columnist.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: CATHERINE KANNER - LOS ANGELES TIMES
[961105 ED 7B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 18, 1996 Monday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

CLINIC SERVES ASIAN HEALTH CARE NEEDS OAKLAND'S CHINATOWN FACILITY, STAFF
DEDICATED TO HELPING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: T. T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 862 words


With his bowl haircut and owlish glasses, Dr. Sai Liang, 30, still looks like a
kid. He bounds into an examination room at the Asian Health Services in
Oakland's Chinatown, festooned with two fanny packs filled with toys, where
Huang Jie Zhu is waiting with her two children, Cindy, 5 months, and Anthony, 5
1/2 years, for their checkups.

Liang approaches the exuberant Anthony with a yellow fish hand puppet that tries
to kiss the giggling boy. The fish asks Anthony how he's doing in school, what
he's eating, whether he's been brushing his teeth and if he likes his baby
sister. "I like my sister!" Anthony declares.

Liang is one of 160 community-minded health workers dedicated to providing
health care for immigrants at Asian Health Services. Once a struggling
non-profit group, AHS recently inaugurated a $9 million dollar, three-story
clinic at 818 Webster St. in the heart of Chinatown.

It opened in October, only six weeks after President Clinton signed the welfare
reform bill that would cut off health care for indigent immigrants, documented
and undocumented.

"Everyone should have equal access to health care," said Dr. Sue Chan, AHS
medical director. "Why should life and death hinge on one's income?" she asked.

AHS is the second-largest community-based health clinic in Alameda County after
Clinica de la Raza. When AHS was founded in 1974, it was an advocacy group to
help immigrants in Alameda County navigate through the labyrinth of social
services. The first clinic served mostly Chinese-Americans a couple of days a
week, after it was established by volunteer doctors and nurses 20 years ago.

By 1996, the Asian and Pacific Islander population in Alameda County has
increased to 250,000, with dramatic growth among Vietnamese, Khmer (Cambodian)
and Iu Mien, a people from the highlands of Laos.

Now AHS is a full-service clinic that provides health care to this new
population, which speaks eight languages and comes from a dozen different
cultures. It has more than 10,000 patients receiving a panoply of services from
perinatal to geriatric care, five days a week. In additional to primary care,
there are educational and preventive programs including smoking prevention, HIV
testing and counseling, a Korean cancer project, senior care and a model medical
translation service.

The majority of patients are Asian. Seventy-six percent have incomes below the
poverty line. Nearly half of the patients are uninsured; the other half are
covered by Medi-Cal and Medicare. Most don't pay anything because of state,
county and federal subsidies. This will change when welfare reform is
implemented.

According to the welfare reform bill, legal immigrants receiving supplemental
security income and food stamp benefits will be cut off by next spring. Newly
arriving legal immigrants will be excluded from most federal benefits. Beginning
Jan. 1, Gov. Pete Wilson has promised to cut off cash welfare assistance,
non-emergency Medicaid and other social services to immigrants whether they are
legal or not.

Beryl Shaw, AHS clinic administrator, is distressed with Wilson. "He's obsessed
with cutting off care for pregnant women who, if they're not properly cared for,
will have untold problems down the road."

Until the cuts take effect, AHS will be able to deliver its original promise to
provide the best health care available for its clients.

All the medical staff is at least bilingual and some speak four languages. The
budget has grown from $850,000 a year to more than $6.5 million in 1996 - most
of which goes to salaries.

A graduate of Harvard University and the University of California, San
Francisco, Liang began working full time at the Asian Health Services clinic in
July. Instead of going into private practice, he chose to work in the Asian
community. As an immigrant himself, he is committed to working with new
Americans, he said. Not only is he a doctor to his patients, he says that he
wants to be a role model, friend and adviser.

The clinic depends on private and corporate help. More than $6 million dollars
was raised to purchase and renovate the building. A capital campaign has netted
$1.9 million from foundations, corporations and individual donors. An additional
$600,000 is needed to complete the renovation. The three-story building, which
once housed the cavernous Lantern Restaurant, has been much improved by Fong and
Chan, a San Francisco architectural firm. There are 24 state-of-the-art
examination rooms and spacious waiting areas with playrooms filled with toys.

At the busy pediatric station, Jim Thai, 24, the unit clerk, juggles
appointments, phone calls, queries and directs traffic in five languages. He can
switch effortlessly from Mandarin to Cantonese to Vietnamese to Swatow and
English. Sometimes he's speaking Cantonese and typing in English at the same
time. None of this seems to faze him or the polyglot patients. Many of them
speak several languages also, although few seem to be fluent in English.

"We may not make much money from insurance like this, but we can continue to
serve low-income families, which is our main mission," said Chan.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RON BURDA - MERCURY NEWS
Sai Liang, a physician at Asian Health Services in Oakland, showers affection on
Rodger Wang during the 5-month-old's checkup.
[961118 LO 1B AL 1; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 29, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POPULATION GROWTH IS GREATEST U.S. PROBLEM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 1148 words


OUR greatest social, economic, and environmental problem is being completely
overlooked: burgeoning U.S. population growth fueled by excessively high levels
of immigration.

The U.S. is the third most populated country in the world, only after China and
India. While we recognize population pressures in China and India, little
attention is paid to the fact that their predicament may be the future of the
United States unless we enact strong legislation now. At our present growth rate
of nearly three million people a year, our nation's current population of nearly
265 million is projected to increase to 400 million by the year 2050.

What will this mean for the United States? Doubling our food production if we
hope to continue to provide for those in the U.S. and still be expected to
supply humanitarian aid as well.

How will this influx of predominantly low-skilled labor affect opportunities for
those recently released from the welfare system? With the tightening of the
budget belt, services will be harder to provide to growing numbers. Crowded
classrooms, overwhelmed emergency response services, and increased pollution and
traffic congestion will be the norm.

By enacting comprehensive immigration legislation now, in the form of a
five-year moratorium of 100,000 a year followed by a 200,000 annual level with a
firm cap, the U.S. will be halfway to achieving a stabilized population.
Achieving replacement-level immigration will save U.S. taxpayers over $125
billion by 2006 and cut population growth in half.

Our leaders at all levels of government are ignoring this reality. Some of the
media are also playing that game. It is up to us citizens to ask the hard
question: Do we want to live with our country as crowded as India and China?

There are excellent reasons to believe that our nation's population is far past
the optimum level which can sustain us indefinitely. - Milo Long
Campbell
AFFORDABLE FOR WHOM?
I read the San Jose Real Estate Board spokespersons' commentary regarding the
Mercury News' report on the real estate crunch in Silicon Valley (Opinion, Nov.
26). Their response to the report's "extreme" example of home prices was
laughable. They refer to decent homes being available in affordable areas in the
range of $175,000 to $250,000. Affordable for whom? Maybe for them.

As recent home buyers, my husband and I struggled to find a home in our price
range - which was far lower than $175,000! - and we earn decent incomes. We
certainly earn far more than that mother of two at $6.75 per hour who was kicked
out of her granny unit. Maybe she ought to just go out and buy herself an
"affordable" home and then she wouldn't have to worry about losing her place to
live.

- Samantha Cabaluna
Seaside
PREVENTABLE TRAGEDY
THE terrible tragedy in which teenagers are accused of killing a new born son in
New Jersey (Page 1A, Nov. 22) probably would not have happened if they had the
proper sex education to prevent unintended pregnancies.

In most European countries children are taught how to prevent pregnancies in
public schools. Italy and the Netherlands average about 10 unwanted teen
pregnancies per year per 1,000 teenage women. Last year California averaged 154
teen pregnancies per 1,000 women.

Planned Parenthood clinics supply this counseling that will prevent unintended
and unwanted pregnancies and the need for abortions. Before teenagers become
sexually active they should visit a clinic and learn how to prevent unintended
pregnancies. According to the American Enterprise Institute, teenage motherhood
is costing the economy $20 billion a year. It is a preventable and costly
problem.

- Winfred Cundiff
Fremont
DON'T CREDIT CLINTON
ON Nov. 11 you published a column by Thomas Friedman "So really, when will we
leave Bosnia?" Thank you. On Nov. 18 you published an editorial "Finally,
Clinton tells the truth about Bosnia." Thank you, again.

One minor correction: In a moment of generosity you gave Clinton credit for
showing a little political maturity. Clinton told the truth about Bosnia for the
same reason that the mayor of a small town on the Russian River admitted that
there was flood danger after the water was waist deep in his kitchen. Let's not
expect Clinton to bless us with political honesty and maturity. It just ain't
his style!

Four more years of slick (politics) is what we get.

- Robert C. Stewart
Hollister
EVOLUTIONARY DORNAN
THE headline of your editorial about Bob Dornan likening him to a Neanderthal is
an insult to that species (Opinion, Nov. 21.)

The brain capacity of the Neanderthals was similar to or slightly larger than
modern man's. Unlike Dornan, a sore loser, they adapted well to harsh conditions
in the environment. They were compassionate and cared for disabled members of
their group. They buried their dead with funeral rites - evidence that they were
capable of abstract thinking.

The only similarity between a Neanderthal and Bob Dornan may be that they are
both extinct.

- Sonja Eriksson
Sunnyvale
BAN MISSES THE TARGET
Me and the boys want to take this opportunity to thank the San Jose City Council
for requiring all of us law abiding criminals to upgrade our working hardware
(Page 1B, Nov. 19). Just last week during a hold-up, I pulled the trigger of my
junk gun and nothing happened, just a click. I think I better buy a Smith &
Wesson or a Ruger.

The facetious and creative writing aside, I will never understand how the
members of the council believe they can make our city safer by demanding that
criminals go to more accurate and reliable weapons. Don't they realize that it
is just as easy to steal an expensive gun as a clunker? Don't they realize that
most of the guns used in felonies did not come through legal channels?

Actually I do understand: It is just one more step of the anti-gun Fabians
nibbling where it does absolutely no good. It is just one more example of a
mindset that confuses gun control with crime control.

- M.V. Stivison
San Jose
BEWARE OF LEAD POLLUTION
ONCE again an article has appeared (Science & Technology Nov. 19) saying that
electric cars are a solution to pollution problems but fails to provide a single
caution about lead and air pollution that will come with electric cars.

Depending on the source of the electricity, contingent pollution may be nuclear
waste, sulfur, and/or carbon dioxide. Leaving that aside as manageable, the
problem of lead pollution is prohibitive of significant use of electric
vehicles.

Pollution from leaded gasoline was too damaging to be acceptable. Pollution from
mining, smelting, fabricating, and recycling 1,000-pound battery packs (that
require replacement every 2 to 3 years) could produce 60 times more lead
pollution per mile driven compared to using leaded gasoline in gasoline
vehicles.

- Raymond R. White
Palo Alto

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               DECEMBER 12, 1996 Thursday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

S.F. DECLARES IMMIGRANT 'SAFETY ZONE'

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


As state and federal governments move to cut benefits to some immigrants, San
Francisco is bucking the trend by declaring the city a "safety zone" for all
immigrants, including those here illegally.

The San Francisco Board of Supervisors has also voted to make a "good-faith
effort" to provide translators at board meetings for any non-English speaker who
asks for one at least 48 hours in advance.

The legislation, which Mayor Willie Brown is expected to sign, says
non-citizens, including illegal immigrants, will not be denied social service
and health-care benefits in San Francisco.

That puts the city in direct opposition to California's voter-approved
Proposition 187. The 1994 immigration initiative seeks to cut off most state
services to illegal aliens. It has yet to be enforced because of court
challenges.

"If any city is going to stand up for equal rights, it's San Francisco, and I
think the rest of the nation expects that from us," said Supervisor Mabel Teng,
chief sponsor of the legislation.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                DECEMBER 12, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLITICAL ASYLUM SOUGHT FOR GAYS TEST CASE: RUSSIAN LESBIAN WANTS FEDERAL COURT
TO GRANT PROTECTED STATUS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Lesbians in Russia still face institutionalization and persecution, attorneys
told a panel of federal judges Wednesday in an effort to win political asylum
for their client.

The case marks the first time a federal appeals court has considered sexual
orientation as a basis for asylum, said attorneys for Alla Pitcherskaia, who
faces deportation if her appeal fails.

"She was repeatedly threatened with forced psychiatric institutionalization
solely because she is a lesbian, and repeatedly detained for political actions
on behalf of gay rights," said Pitcherskaia's lawyer, Suzanne Goldberg of the
Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund.

Pitcherskaia, 34, who now works for a San Francisco travel agency, went to the
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals after the Immigration and Naturalization
Service refused her asylum request.

The INS now recognizes that foreign nationals can be persecuted for their sexual
orientation and has granted asylum to about 40 people on that basis.

But Justice Department attorney Stephen Funk said Pitcherskaia's case failed to
meet standards set by the INS, which ruled she did not have a well-founded fear
of persecution.

"There was no electroshock therapy, there was no long-term detention," Funk
said. "The threat (to institutionalize her) was made by the former Soviet
government, and for eight years that threat was never carried out."

In any case, Funk said, the government intended only to help Pitcherskaia, not
harm her.

Her arrests for "hooliganism," a catch-all charge that included gay activity,
stopped in 1983, even before the Soviet regime ended, he said. And the new
Russian government has repealed laws that banned such activities, he argued.

Funk said the civil liberties and gay rights groups supporting Pitcherskaia were
looking for a broad ruling by a federal appeals court recognizing gays as a
class that could be persecuted. Funk told the judges that Pitcherskaia's was not
the proper case.

Goldberg, in turn, argued that Pitcherskaia was required to attend psychiatric
counseling sessions until she left Russia in 1992.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Attorneys Ignatius Bau and Suzanne Goldberg are seeking asylum for lesbian Alla
Pitcherskaia.
[961212 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 DECEMBER 30, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMERICA IS ABOUT CULTURAL HARMONY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1017 words


ROBERT Cape's letter on Dec. 21 accurately displays the real problem with this
country in that we are being overrun by ethnocentric, arrogant, self-centered,
dimwitted European immigrants like himself.

He writes that foreigners should "honor the culture of their adopted country." I
ask which culture is that? The culture of fast food, traffic jams, mindless
urban sprawl, double non-fat, non-whip mocha grandes, sport utility vehicles and
the Home Shopping Network. Or the true native culture of his "adopted country"
that respects the Earth and her peoples?

I think Cape should go back where he came from or where his immigrant ancestors
came from because I think he's here just to "fill a bank account, and have
children who qualify for American citizenship."

Besides "California is full-to-overflowing with foreigners." We would then have
more room for open-minded people who respect and learn from one another's
culture and who can learn to live in harmony in their "adopted country."

As my Hopi ancestors say in the Palatkwapi story, "When a stranger comes to the
village, feed him. Do not injure one another, because all beings deserve to live
together in harmony."

- N. Talayesva
Taos, New Mexico
I read with disgust the contempt that was expressed by fellow readers toward
non-English speaking immigrants under "Our country: to stay, love it and learn
English" (Opinion Page, Dec. 21).

There is a clear need for bilingual police officers in San Jose due to the
ethnic makeup of the community. Letter writer Joanne Dwyer seems to imply that
"our public services" belong exclusively to English-speaking residents. That
would be appropriate if we were taxed according to the language that we speak,
but that isn't the case.

Meanwhile, letter writer Robert Matthews notes that "we have bent over backward
to accommodate them." It is disturbing that in this age of a global economy
individuals continue to have an us vs. them attitude in regard to ethnicity and
language. It's time to look around and realize that we live in one of the most
ethnically diverse areas of the world. If that includes non-English speaking
people, then so be it.

Dwyer firmly believes that all entering the United States should have to know
basic English. Well, fortunately for agriculture, construction and other sectors
of the economy, that is not the case. These industries would certainly collapse
without the labor of Spanish-speaking workers.

Personally, I try to encourage every non-English speaker I know to learn
English, not because I feel it should be required to have access to public
services or because I feel threatened by them, but because it will open more
opportunities for those individuals.

San Jose has a Hispanic population of more than 300,000, including English and
Spanish speakers. I don't ask that you love this or even like it, but if you
plan to continue living here, accept it.

- Jorge Garcia
San Jose
STOPPING YOUTH CRIME
REGARDING your editorial of Dec. 16: Indeed, there are better ways to handle the
increasing numbers of "messed up kids who do bad things." More "juvies" built at
enormous public cost or yet another (heaven forbid!) new state agency to oversee
juvenile justice are non-solutions.

I have counseled tough Asian juvenile criminals for nearly nine years and 90
percent of the time, I have seen counseling work - I have watched these kids
re-invent themselves. If society is really serious about reforming the juvenile
justice system, it can help troubled kids re-invent themselves - but it has to
put its money in the right place.

The right place is investment in prevention, counseling and treatment programs
that are coordinated with the local school district, the local police department
and appropriate county agencies. Local people who understand the particular
problems of particular kids are best equipped to coordinate the programs that
can save kids' lives - and the taxpayer's money.

- Patrick Du Phuuc Long
San Jose
CONFLUENCE POINT IS FINE
YOU ask "How do you name something that's - nothing?" in your Dec. 19 editorial
about the name of Confluence Point, where Los Gatos Creek joins the Guadalupe
River. I feel your question is a sad reflection on the low level of our
ecological consciousness and our lack of connection with the Earth and its
life-giving waters.

In a region where rain falls only half the year, the place where two streams
flow together to create a larger, more vibrant stream ought to be a point of
celebration. Water is precious in California. We forget this. We've channelized
our creeks with concrete, hidden them in cults and refused to recognize that
"streams will be streams" when heavy rains come. In other years we buy bottled
water, worry about our dying lawns and blithely go on building houses without
asking where the water will come from for these new residents.

Rather than naming this confluence after some yet-to-be-famous human as your
editorial suggests, let's retain the name Confluence Point and use it as a site
to raise our consciousness about water and our human dependence upon it and
other natural resources. Maybe the Mercury News could start a fund to create an
environmental education kiosk at the site so we could all learn more about our
local waterways and how we and our creeks are interconnected parts of the
Earth's water cycle.

- Debbie Mytels
Palo Alto
BANKRUPTCY FALLACIES
SUSAN Sutton fails to mention that debtors should exert discipline in dealing
with their credit problems. (Opinion, Dec. 18) No one made them use their credit
cards to get in over their heads.

Perhaps abuse would diminish if there was a test to petition for bankruptcy:
Natural disasters, medical bills, etc. would be reasons one could petition but
owing back income taxes would not. Also, the fact that an individual can file
Chapter 13 every six months leads to abuse of the system.

I agree that people deserve a second chance but not if their financial
difficulties were the result of their own actions.

- Richard Therrel
San Jose
Columnist Joanne Jacobs is on vacation.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 2, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS ISSUES REMINDER ON CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is reminding prospective citizens
that they're not citizens until they're sworn in.

The move is in response to revelations some non-citizens voted in the election
last Nov. 5. Eighteen legal residents who were in the process of becoming
citizens said they registered to vote before being sworn in - a felony that
could result in prosecution or deportation.

INS District Director Richard Rogers, whose Los Angeles office oversees 10
counties, also said he has suspended a relationship between the INS and
Hermandad Mexicana Nacional, which may have signed up non-citizens to vote.

INS officers will no longer conduct citizenship interviews at Hermandad offices
in Santa Ana and at two Los Angeles locations, Rogers said.

All interviews will be rescheduled at INS offices in Bellflower.

Nearly two years ago, the INS began conducting the interviews at Hermandad to
help deal with an overwhelming number of new citizens.

The INS is cooperating with the Orange County district attorney's office in
investigating non-citizen voting, Rogers said.

After passing the INS interview, all prospective citizens were handed a letter
that begins: "Congratulations! Your application for naturalization has been
approved. To complete the naturalization you must now take the oath of
allegiance before a judge of the United States District Court."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JANUARY 10, 1997 Friday SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

GROUP'S MEETING IN GILROY AIMS AT SOLVING IMMIGRANTS' PROBLEMS

BYLINE: DALE RODEBAUGH, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 329 words


A newly organized group that includes many first-generation immigrants has
scheduled a public meeting Saturday in Gilroy to ask legislators to help its
members solve economic and educational problems.

"We're looking for solutions to crime, poor education, intolerance and welfare
and Social Security fraud," said Sasha Stuart, one of the founders of United
People for America. She said the group includes people from Salinas to San Jose
but is so new it doesn't have its non-profit corporation status.

"America is going down because of injustices," said Stuart, a custodian at San
Jose State University. "Money and benefits are going to those who don't need
them while those who need help don't get it. We have to start with principles
and values - respect for everyone."

Representatives of Assemblyman Peter Frusetta, state Sen. Bruce McPherson and
Gilroy Mayor Don Gage are scheduled to attend the meeting.

Veronica Acosta of Concerned Women for America, who ran for the Assembly from
Alameda County, and Chuck Woyslaw, a candidate for Congress from Santa Clara
County, also are scheduled to attend.

Two cannery workers and two disabled adult students now enrolled in a technical
trade school will open the meeting by telling of welfare and contract abuses
they have witnessed, Stuart said.

Kim Sparacio, a Gilroy resident and one of the organizers, predicted the meeting
will "open eyes and point out where we go from here."

"There's nothing new about what will be said, but a lot of people refuse to
believe it," Sparacio said. "They're going to learn that they have to do more
than keep their mouths shut and keep on doing what they're doing."

Jennifer Abundiz, an aide to Frusetta, said United People for America appears
"to have good intentions, although the group is a little disorganized now."

Abundiz said she believes the organizers hope to instill the work ethic of older
generations of immigrants in newcomers and unite them politically.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 14, 1997 Tuesday SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

SENATOR PLANS STATEMENT ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 396 words


Sen. Spencer Abraham of Michigan, who led opposition last year to legislation
restricting legal immigration, will deliver what is being called a major policy
statement on the subject today in Silicon Valley, where high-tech industry
strongly supports legal immigration.

The talk by the Republican senator, expected to become chairman of the Senate
Immigration Subcommittee, is scheduled for 3 p.m. at Cypress Semiconductor, 195
Champion Court, Bldg. 2, and is open to the public.

Abraham's talk will be preceded by a statement by Cypress' chief, T.J. Rodgers,
a vocal supporter of immigration.

COMING
Tours on the Mississippi River and to New England, Yosemite National Park and
other points will be detailed at a tour showcase party sponsored by the San Jose
Office on Aging at 2:30 p.m. Wednesday at Southside Senior Center, 5585 Cottle
Road. Call Traci Tokunaga at (408) 277-4101 for details.

Free Fridays for those who dress in the spirit of the occasion will begin this
week at the San Jose Museum of Art to boost its "Elvis + Marilyn: 2 X Immortal"
exhibit.

On Friday, "Blue Suede Shoes Day," anyone wearing blue suede shoes will be
admitted free. Subsequent free Fridays will be Jan. 24, Gold Lame Day; Jan. 31,
Hound Dog Day (carry photo of dog); Feb. 7, Black Leather Jacket Day; Feb. 14,
Love Me Tender Day (couples free); Feb. 21, Tie One On Day (wear a white scarf a
la Elvis). Call (408) 271-6840 for information.

Eucalyptus and pine wood trimmed from Vasona Lake County Park trees is still
available to anyone who wants it for the $50 cost of a permit that allows
cutting of the already downed wood.

Those taking up to a cord of the wood must provide their own chain saw equipped
with a brake, goggles, gloves and hard hat. Information is available from the
park office at (408) 356-2729.

A free family concert will be given at 2:30 p.m. Sunday at the Community School
of Music & Arts, 253 Martens Ave., off Grant Road, Mountain View.

The event will feature "Shake It Up With Mariachi," with La Familia Diaz.
Included will be various instruments and musical styles from Mexico, Central
America, South America and the Caribbean.

The concert is presented by the school as part of a monthly series running
through June. Seating is limited, and reservations are required by calling (415)
961-0342. Tickets will be held until 2:15 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: VALLEY LOG
What's Happening in the Valley

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 17, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON RESUMES ORIGINAL STANCE ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 213 words


President Clinton, responding to a report that he reversed course on immigration
policy last year after Asian-Americans donated $1.1 million to the Democratic
Party, Thursday resumed his original position: He backs limits that are strongly
opposed by Asian-Americans. Addressing an article in Thursday's Boston Globe
that reported Clinton abandoned a plan to limit sibling immigration a month
after a $12,500-a-person fundraising dinner, the White House insisted that
Clinton never changed course. Instead, his press officer said, he merely put
aside his desire to limit sibling immigration to ensure passage of a key
immigration bill, which won approval last year.

But the chief House sponsor of the immigration bill, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas,
accused the White House of seeking to rewrite history with its explanation. In
its statement, the White House said Clinton was seeking the "suspension" of
applications of brothers and sisters of naturalized citizens, a controversial
move that directly affects hundreds of thousands of people. White House press
secretary Michael McCurry said that means Clinton is sticking to his original
position. But March 20, Clinton decided to stop trying to eliminate a so-called
"sibling preference" for legal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 18, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. REJECTS VIETNAMESE IN HONG KONG

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 157 words


A federal appeals court in Washington, D.C., has ruled that U.S. officials in
Hong Kong may refuse to issue immigrant visas requested by Vietnamese boat
people seeking entry into the United States. The court said the State Department
has the authority to determine where visas are issued.

Previously, the court had ruled that the State Department's policy of refusing
to issue such visas in Hong Kong illegally discriminated against Vietnamese on
the basis of their nationality. But the government appealed that ruling, and the
Supreme Court last October told the lower court to reconsider the issue in light
of a new immigration law signed in September that authorizes the secretary of
state to determine the procedures for processing immigrant visa applications.

The appeals court also rejected arguments that the policy of refusing to issue
such visas in Hong Kong violated the boat people's constitutional right to due
process.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 22, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRANT FERVOR IS UNSETTLING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 939 words


IT unsettled me quite a bit when I noticed the number of people protesting
against immigration in front of the Cypress Semiconductor building where Sen.
Spencer Abraham was speaking (Page 1C, Jan. 14). This was especially sad because
it happened in Silicon Valley, where many ethnic groups co-exist reasonably
well.

I immigrated to this country 30 years ago. I founded a company 12 years ago, and
now the revenues generated could support about 550 jobs. I have always been of
the opinion that this country owed me nothing. All I ask for is that the
government can create a level playing field and equal opportunities for all.

One of the protesters' signs read "Immigrants smuggle drugs," which might be
true for a tiny fraction of all the law-abiding immigrants. It is equally
ludicrous to follow the rationale of a European friend of mine who once
commented to me, "You Americans are ridiculous. You can easily get away with
killing your ex-wife and her boyfriend."

- Kenneth Fong
Palo Alto
DANGEROUS AGENDA
I attended Sen. Spencer Abraham's immigration policy speech at Cypress
Semiconductor. The protesters outside who were chanting such enlightened slogans
as "Deport Abraham" are certainly entitled to exercise their First Amendment
rights. But Abraham already has supported tough measures against illegal
immigration and even wrote the legislation that will now enforce swifter
deportation of criminal aliens. What the protesters favor is an agenda that
includes forbidding Americans from sponsoring their own children for immigration
and forcing U.S. citizens to carry national ID cards and go through an intrusive
federal government computer database whenever they apply for new jobs. What a
setback it would be for this country if such an agenda were to succeed.

Control illegal immigration through methods that do not impinge on our civil
liberties, allow Americans to sponsor close family members, and permit companies
to hire the skilled people they need to compete in the global marketplace. That
is an agenda that doesn't fit easily onto a protester's sign. However, it is the
right one for America and one consistent with our tradition as a nation of
immigrants.

- Stuart Anderson
Director, Trade & Immigration Studies
CATO Institute
Washington, D.C.
ECONOMIC FALLACIES
T.J. Rodgers argues that we should maintain the current flood of immigrants
because it is good for business (Perspective, Jan. 19). His management of
Cypress Semiconductor has been outstanding, so I have no doubt that his company
profits from high levels of immigration. However, his statistical argument that
native Americans benefit economically from immigration is fallacious. He cites
figures that high-immigration areas in the U.S. have higher income and lower
unemployment. This might be partially the result of foreign Ph.D. engineers
developing valuable products, as Rodgers suggests, but there is also a much
simpler and more likely explanation. Immigrants to the U.S. seek out places with
money and jobs, and therefore prosperous areas often get an influx of
immigrants. There are also statistics which show that there are more immigrants
in areas with high welfare benefits. Does that mean immigrants cause high
welfare payments?

- Roger Schlafly
Soquel
CRIME HITS HOME
I am a concerned teen-ager who has lived in a quiet San Jose neighborhood all my
life, and I am seeing more and more gangs and violence. I don't like the changes
that my neighbors and I are going through.

I am scared to let my nephews go outside to play without worrying about them
being harmed. Now I make sure that the children are in before dinnertime. It
takes away our freedom. I have never seen such crime and graffiti. Our
neighborhood has to pay large sums of money to get rid of the filth on the store
walls and private property. We are all concerned with the security of our homes
and property.

I know times have changed, but I never expected the worst. Drugs and violence
have risen among teen-agers. I don't want my neighborhood to change into a
drug-infested, gang area. We, as a concerned society, should take the initiative
and help stop crime.

I hope this letter opens the eyes of parents and makes them more concerned about
their kids. People are suffering, and it is a problem that needs to be taken
care of.

- Anna Flores
San Jose
FOXES ARE INTRUDERS
CERTAIN animal rights activists and officials of the City of Mountain View may
feel that their "red fox solution" will please everyone, but such is not the
case. To spend unnecessary time and money to capture, treat, and transport
ailing and alien animals that threaten endangered species in our baylands is
ridiculous. We should not protect an alien species which threatens the animals
which utilize the little area left.

Red foxes have been repeatedly and illegally imported into California so they
could be hunted. As the larger animals which capture them - coyotes and wolves -
declined or were eliminated, red fox populations rapidly increased. They are
especially damaging in the habitat of the endangered kit fox and the coastal
areas of southern California and the San Francisco Bay. Here they threaten the
ground-nesting endangered clapper rail and least tern, and prey on
ground-nesting shorebirds.

When left to their own devices, red foxes easily eliminate the clapper rail.
When they are removed, populations of the rail recover. The two species cannot
co-exist. It's time for those who support the rights of animals to realize that
we have to prioritize our efforts, and that mammals are not the only animals.

- Ruth Troetschler
Los Altos

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LG FRANCIS - MERCURY NEWS
Protesters picket outside Cypress Semiconductor on Jan. 13.
[970122 ED 7B 3]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 26, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS GET HELP IN QUEST FOR CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 728 words


Dozens of elderly and disabled legal immigrants turned out on Saturday at the
Center for Employment Training in San Jose, anxious to get help in becoming
naturalized citizens so they won't lose federal benefits that would otherwise be
cut off Aug. 22.

Santa Clara County officials believe this is the first county-run citizenship
drive in the nation.

One of those attending the citizenship day was 82-year-old Truc Nguyen.

Leaning on a metal cane, her shoulders stooped and her gray hair brushed from
her weathered face, Nguyen slowly, but surely made her way into the bustling
room to do something she hoped would allow her to live the rest of her days in
this country.

"Legal immigrants who have followed the rules and, in many instances, worked
here for years, are losing their survival income," said Richard Hobbs, the
county's first director of citizen and immigration programs. "Without it, many
will become homeless, food-less and hopeless."

The changes are coming because federal welfare reform requires legal immigrants
to become citizens to continue receiving Supplemental Security Income, food
stamps, Medi-Cal, welfare and in-home support care services.

If legal immigrants remain non-citizens, lose their benefits and go on
county-funded general assistance payments, it also could cost the county more
than $36 million a year, Hobbs said.

As a result, county officials have taken aggressive action to help immigrants
become citizens. They sent out letters notifying them that their federal
benefits may be cut off. And for the next two months, they will host citizenship
drives every Saturday throughout the county to help immigrants fill out
Immigration and Naturalization Service applications to become naturalized.

Their goal is to reach all 20,621 legal immigrants in the county who receive
Supplemental Security Income, which averages about $650 a month. Many of the
workers are bilingual to help with the 4,000 people receiving SSI who are
Vietnamese-American and 1,100 who are Mexican-American.

For Saturday's citizenship drive, 851 legal immigrants were invited. Of those,
60 showed up. One third of those invited had already begun applying for
citizenship, Hobbs said. Fifty percent did not reply. And 12 percent are
homebound and unable to travel to any center, so county officials will go to
them.

Language a barrier

Still, many people managed to get to the center Saturday, some in wheelchairs,
some as old as 97, and some suffering from Down's syndrome, Alzheimer's disease
or post-traumatic stress syndrome.

About 3,000 legal immigrants receiving SSI in Santa Clara County would likely be
unable to learn English or pass the U.S. government and history tests because
they have memory loss or other mental impairments, Hobbs said. These immigrants
would qualify for a disability waiver with a letter from their doctor.

Trying again

On Saturday, with a $95 INS application fee in hand, immigrants hoping to become
citizens received assistance in filling out forms, getting fingerprinted and
being photographed. Catholic Charities and CET employees will take the completed
applications to the INS office for the applicants. If everything is approved and
all tests passed, these applicants will become naturalized citizens in about
nine months.

Miguel, who didn't want his last name used, had tried to become a citizen 20
years ago. But the Mexican immigrant's English wasn't up to par, and he was so
nervous that he failed the test. Saturday, though, the 70-year-old was back to
try again.

Reform confusion

Wheelchair-bound since a brain aneurysm nearly took his life five years ago,
Miguel had been a welder. For 15 years, he worked 18 hours a day, he said. Now,
he gets by with $738 a month in SSI and must have a caregiver at home to help
him.

Welfare reform has been confusing to many immigrants like Miguel. The San Jose
resident thought he would lose his benefits because he wasn't a citizen, but
because he has worked more than 10 years, he had nothing to fear. Legal
immigrants who have paid Social Security taxes for 10 years do not need to
become citizens to retain federal benefits.

Still, Miguel said he decided to become a citizen because it was the right thing
to do.

"I haven't gone to Mexico for 40 years," he said, "And I realize I'll live here
the rest of my life."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The next citizenship day drive will be Saturday at St. John Vianney Church, 4601
Hyland Ave., San Jose. Appointments also can be set up during the week for
assistance in filling out applications. For more information, contact Catholic
Charities at (408) 944-0691 or the Center for Employment Training at (408)
534-5451.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 29, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE POLL BROADENS WELFARE DEBATE HEALTH CARE FAVORED FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: DONNA ALVARADO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1171 words


The federal government blurred the line between legal and illegal immigrants
when it took away public health care benefits last year, but Californians see a
clear distinction.

A new Field poll on health care spending released today finds overwhelming
support - 81 percent statewide, 87 percent in Santa Clara County - for providing
community health services to legal immigrants. At the same time, people who
entered the country illegally drew support from only 42 percent statewide.

The solid support for serving legal immigrants could boost efforts building
nationwide to soften the federal restrictions that were part of last year's
historic welfare reform. It could also enliven the debate expected later this
year as the California Legislature considers the issue.

"It's become a very politicized issue," said pollster Mark DiCamillo. "To the
public health community, that represents a very big problem because they think
these services need to be provided to anyone living in the community."

Other poll findings show that a majority of Californians with health insurance
said they would be willing to pay slightly higher premiums in return for more
preventive services. The poll, commissioned by a non-profit group called the
California Wellness Foundation, surveyed 4,803 adults statewide last fall.

The poll also found:

* 36 percent think more should be spent on preventive health services rather
than on medical care for the sick.

* 72 percent support raising cigarette taxes from 37 cents to $1 per pack to pay
for community health programs.

* 57 percent of those with health insurance would be willing to pay 5 percent
more for the insurance if that provided them and their families with more
preventive health services.

* 72 percent oppose a government surtax on health care premiums to pay for
community health services. Pollster DiCamillo said that suggested Californians
were wary of increasing government bureaucracy and preferred a more personal
benefit in return for higher premiums.

Diverse support

Support for benefits such as immunization, family planning and prenatal care for
legal immigrants was strong and broad throughout diverse groups, with more than
75 percent of whites and African-Americans supporting them and even higher
percentages of Latinos and Asians. Both Republicans and Democrats favored the
benefits.

Most respondents opposed providing health care benefits for illegal immigrants.
Big exceptions were San Francisco and Los Angeles, where majorities favored
serving illegal immigrants.

Momentum is building nationwide to reconsider the benefits taken away from legal
immigrants under the welfare law signed six months ago by Presi dent Clinton.
The federal law bans most aid to illegal immigrants and restricts many benefits
to those in the country legally.

Governors weigh in

Last week, however, a coalition of big-state governors urged Congress to restore
some benefits to legal immigrants. California's governor was not among them.

"I would hope our own governor would join that call. He hasn't yet," said E.
Richard Brown, director of health policy research at UCLA and an authority on
California's uninsured. Referring to the other governors, Brown said, "I think
people are beginning to look at what they wrought."

Gov. Pete Wilson has proposed cutting off new legal immigrants - but not those
who were here as of August - from eligibility for full coverage by Medi-Cal, the
government program of health care for the poor.

State Democratic legislative leaders have already expressed opposition to
cutting off aid for legal immigrants.

More than 40 percent of the nation's legal immigrants live in California. About
635,000 legal immigrants who entered before August receive public health ben
efits from Medi-Cal, and an estimated 40,000 more apply each year.

More uninsured

Unless the cutoff is reversed, the number of Californians lacking health
insurance - already almost one in four - will swell. Hospitals typically care
for these patients even when they can't pay.

"The pressure . . . on the health care delivery system is going to be
staggering," said Denise Martin, president of the California Association of
Public Hospitals.

California could lose up to $3.2 billion in federal funding for Medi-Cal over
the next six years if the state cuts off all new legal immigrants, according to
the association. Santa Clara County alone could lose $240 million during the
same period.

Most public health officials say that even without funding, they cannot turn
away immigrants - legal or otherwise - from clinics if they are sick,
particularly with infectious diseases that could threaten the community's
health.

"It's critical. You can't just immunize a part of the community and have
protection," said Dr. Martin Fenstersheib, Santa Clara County's health officer.
"The dis eases don't know if these people are legal or not. People are wise in
thinking those services should be provided."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Should California continue health services for...LEGAL ALIENS - ILLEGAL ALIENS
Statewide - Santa Clara County
[970129 FR 1A 4; color]
CHART:
AROUND THE STATE
Here's how people statewide and in major counties responded to Field Poll
questions about whether they would be willing to pay 5 percent more for health
insurance in return for more preventive services and whether they believe legal
and illegal immigrants should be eligible for public health services.
Health insurance
Willing to pay more Public health services for
Very,   Not too,     Legal immigrants   Illegal immigrants
County     somewhat not at all Continue Exclude Continue Exclude
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Statewide      57%      41%      81%      16%      42%      53%
Alameda        61%      37%      85%      14%      48%      49%
Contra Costa   56%      41%      80%      17%      41%      57%
Los Angeles    60%      38%      84%      13%      50%      45%
Orange         48%      48%      83%      15%      41%      57%
Sacramento     55%      41%      79%      17%      38%      59%
San Diego      58%      40%      79%      17%      33%      63%
San Francisco  62%      34%      88%      8%      56%      33%
San Mateo      49%      49%      88%      8%      44%      50%
Santa Clara    57%      42%      87%      9%      43%      51%
Source: The Field Poll questioned 4,803 California adults Sept. 30 to Nov. 5,
1996. Of these, the 3,883 who had health insurance were asked about paying more.

 There is a 95 percent probability that statewide answers are accurate within
two percentage points for both all adults and insured adults. Error margins in
individual counties are up to seven points for all adults and eight points for
insured adults.
MERCURY NEWS

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charts (2)

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 7, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TAXPAYER ID LAW WILL TAX IRS OFFICES ITIN TRACKS IMMIGRANTS, OTHERS

BYLINE: MARK SCHWANHAUSSER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1068 words


Applicants seeking new taxpayer identification numbers - designed to help the
Internal Revenue Service track foreign taxpayers more efficiently - are expected
to flood IRS offices in Silicon Valley beginning Monday.

Mandated by Congress, the IRS now requires that taxpayers report valid ID
numbers for every person listed on a tax return. In the past, if a taxpayer
didn't have a Social Security number, the IRS simply made up its own nine-digit
number so it could track the return through its system. That system was so
riddled with problems, however, that the IRS scrapped it in favor of an
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, or ITIN.

The ITIN (pronounced "eye-tin") is aimed at resident immigrants, non-resident
entrants and undocumented workers - plus any dependents they claim on their
returns. Typical candidates include foreign-born taxpayers who send money out of
the country to spouses or children who aren't citizens, illegal workers who file
to collect refunds and foreigners who invest in the United States.

Because of the large Latino population in the San Jose region, the IRS is
focusing its publicity efforts on the Spanish-speaking community, but the rules
apply to all nationalities.

Using this new identification system, the IRS expects to haul in more taxes,
chip away at fraud and better determine who owes taxes. Beginning Monday, the
IRS will open five sites in San Jose, Salinas and Pajaro specifically to process
ITIN applicants in addition to its regular public offices.

But the volume of applicants is expected to stretch IRS resources during the
busy tax season.

The new ITIN has raised concerns about privacy, immigration raids and taxpayer
rights. "People are easily intimidated by the IRS," said Sharon Kreider, a
partner in Kreider & Schmalz, a Santa Clara tax firm. "I think this hurts a
class of taxpayer that in the past we have protected from the power and
bureaucracy of the IRS."

The number also has spurred profiteers who are charging to fill out the free
application or to unnecessarily translate foreign documents for legal
immigrants, international visitors, overseas investors and illegal workers.

Most taxpayers use valid Social Security numbers. If you're among them, the IRS
will process your tax return as usual. But many people aren't eligible for that
number - especially since the Social Security Administration quietly reversed a
two-decade old policy last year and stopped issuing IDs solely for tax purposes
to foreign students, overseas investors and others.

Anyone who used an IRS number issued before July 1, 1996, must obtain a Social
Security number if they're eligible, or apply for the new ITIN. If taxpayers
file without one of these IDs, the IRS will kick out their returns and
investigate, or simply disallow dependency exemptions, child-care credits and
earned-income credits - and then bill taxpayers the difference or debit their
refunds.

Critics of the new process fear some taxpayers will be too intimidated or know
too little about the new IRS procedures and will lose certain appeal rights,
making it a more difficult and lengthier process to get a refund.

"A lot of people will say, 'Hey, it's not that much money, I'm afraid of the
IRS,' . . . and they'll just accept a smaller refund," said Robert Duitz, who
heads RD's Tax and Bookkeeping Service in Campbell.

The IRS doesn't know how many applicants it will have, but it expects a lot. The
IRS has mailed 10,000 notices to taxpayers it could identify from Palo Alto to
Salinas. And, the San Jose office has handled 3,000 applications, but no one
will estimate how many more will flood in.

Thirty to 50 people a day applied in the IRS's San Jose headquarters in December
before the agency began its publicity campaign. Now, the number of daily
applicants is between 150 to 200. When Spanish radio stations put out the word
this week, "all of a sudden we got inundated," said spokesman Chips Maurer.

To cope with the increasing number of applicants, the office has taken several
steps:

* It hired eight temporary workers to focus solely on ITIN applications and
trained dozens of others to help.

* If lines clog, they will pull workers from their normal jobs and process ITIN
applicants separately from taxpayers.

* The IRS will add ITIN-processing sites and expand their hours as needed.

* If churches, companies or other organizations have large groups of applicants,
the IRS will make appointments for staff members to process applications there.

* And it is ramping up publicity to clarify a cloud of misinformation. Notably,
officials want to rebut reports, like one broadcast by local Spanish TV stations
here this week, that the IRS will report undocumented workers to the INS. (The
IRS says it is prohibited from doing so.)

They also are warning that some profiteers are charging to complete the ITIN
applications or to translate identification documents. The ITIN application,
known as the W-7 form, is free. And they are stressing that an ITIN is not a
substitute for a Social Security number; it will not change one's work status.

Despite these steps, applicants won't get an ITIN immediately. IRS staffers only
verify an applicants documentation - such as passports, visas, baptismal or
birth records - then forward it to a IRS center in Philadelphia. That center
recently added 30 workers so it could process 50,000 applications a day, but
taxpayers still must wait about four weeks, Maurer said.

Much of San Jose's strategy was developed after a crisis in the Los Angeles
district office. Late last year, a rumor that applications needed to be made by
year's end drove waits at the Los Angeles office to longer than two hours and
forced the IRS to turn people away, said spokeswoman Deborah Guajardo.

To relieve the pressure, IRS officials opened special ITIN-processing sites on
Saturdays but were still overwhelmed.

"I can't tell you exactly (the number of applicants), but even on Saturdays we
were processing probably about 1,200 to 1,300 and turning away another 2,000 to
3,000," Guajardo said. "We just didn't have that much staff. We had about 35
people processing them."

Since then, the Los Angeles office has staffed up and says it can handle the
workload. Next week it will close the special sites and steer applicants back to
the office. Still, the traffic surges whenever the issue is publicized.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 8, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LET KIDS DECIDE ON UNIFORMS IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 664 words


I read an article in Scholastic News in my school and found out that President
Clinton wants public schools to have uniforms. I do not think uniforms are a
good idea. President Clinton thinks that some fighting will stop. I don't think
that they will solve anything. I also think that the kids should vote on it too
(if anyone votes) because they are the ones who are going to be wearing them.

- Laura Dae Cameron, 11
Stipe Elementary
WHAT TO WEAR FOR THE NEW MILLENNIUM
BULLET-PROOF vests shouldn't just be for police because more non-police officers
are getting shot these days. Maybe if we use more technology we may be able to
make bullet-proof pants and hats. Hey, we are headed to the new millennium. Why
not start now?

- Lawrence Willis, 11
Stipe Elementary
San Jose
AMERICA'S IMMIGRANTS ARE WRONGLY BLAMED
POLLY Rizzuti ("Immigration's Cost," Letters, Jan. 27) argues that immigrants
have a negative financial impact on this country and therefore their numbers
should be restricted. If all she cares about in this world is money, she is
right. Other than that, we need to give immigrants the credit they deserve in
the history of America.

Arguing that immigration should be curtailed because it doesn't make financial
sense is a bogus point. Looking at history and life that way, it didn't make
financial sense to declare independence, abolish slavery, or invade Normandy in
World War II. It doesn't make financial sense for a cancer patient to undergo
treatment or for a couple to have a child. If we judged everything with a
financial measuring stick, we would lose a great part of our lives.

It is also wrong of her to pin the problem of traffic congestion on immigrants
as well. Traffic isn't caused by immigrants. It's caused by people who are too
lazy and don't have enough regard for nature to ride their bikes or walk.

- Jonathan Wiener, 16
Los Altos High School
Los Altos
CRIME, PUNISHMENT AND A 24-HOUR HOTLINE
I think there are too many crimes in the world. For example, on my street a guy
got stabbed in his car for stopping while a cat crossed the road. He now is
dead. On the news, they said a drunk driver ran into a car, killing a teenage
girl riding on the passenger's side of the car. These are two examples of crimes
in the world.

I think the penalty for killing someone should be life in prison or the electric
chair.

I also think people should have a number to call 24 hours a day every day if
someone is drunk and needs a ride. They could call and a taxi could give them a
ride home.

- Kimberly Shearer, 11
Stipe Elementary
San Jose
LIFE IS HARD ENOUGH FOR CALIFORNIA'S POOR
I say "no" to Gov. Pete Wilson's reform. He is punishing the poor. He is also
throwing welfare recipients to the wolves. Since we are a nation of deeply
caring individuals, Gov. Wilson should take care of the poor.

It is time that we consider the effect this welfare reform has on individual
people. Should hard times constitute a reason for destroying families? Thousands
of people need welfare. It is hard for poor people to find a job because there
are not enough jobs to go around. It is difficult and expensive to find day care
for our children. It is also exhausting for parents to run from day care, to
work, to home and to school.

Being a working parent is hard. We should continue to give these poor people
welfare.

- Benjamin Tsang, 11
Blue Hills School
Saratoga
SAVE THE ANIMALS, SAVE BAIR ISLAND
WE feel it is more important for wildlife to live on Bair Island (Page 1A, Jan.
16) than for people to build homes, offices, and hotels. We think people already
have enough homes and buildings.

We care deeply for these animals and think they should not be harmed in any way.
If buildings are built, people will pollute the water and maybe kill some fish
living there. They could also kill or hurt the wildlife when transferring them
to another area.

- Beth Brandt, 11,
and Katie Mockler, 11
Blue Hills School
Saratoga

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: YOUNG VOICES

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: JIM MORIN - MIAMI HERALD
[970208 ED 7B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 15, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 103 words


Fifty-three Chinese nationals jailed by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service since 1993 are being released, the Clinton administration announced. The
aliens had been awaiting decisions on political asylum since the freighter
trying to smuggle them into the United States ran aground off New York City.
* Sen. Jesse Helms wants Vatican Ambassador Raymond Flynn recalled immediately.
The North Carolina Republican, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, referred to "serious questions" raised in a December State Department
report on Flynn. Details of such reports are kept confidential.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 26, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

LATINO KIDS MISSING OUT ON HEALTH CARE IMMIGRATION REFORM COULD THIN RANKS
FURTHER, ACCORDING TO A UCLA STUDY

BYLINE: DONNA ALVARADO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 804 words


Nearly half of the urban Latino children eligible for government health coverage
aren't receiving it because of their parents' immigrant status, according to a
new study by researchers at the University of California-Los Angeles.

The study, which was published in today's Journal of the American Medical
Association, also suggested that health coverage was likely to worsen for
California's Latino children because of pending measures aimed at reducing the
costs of immigration. Welfare reform in California could make most non-citizen
immigrants ineligible for Medi-Cal, the government health insurance program for
the poor.

The report is one of the first to document how immigration measures aimed at
denying government benefits to adults also deprive the immigrants' U.S.-born
children of health coverage. The findings prompted one top medical official to
take the unusual step of writing an editorial calling the situation "a growing
ethical and economical calamity."

"Our nation runs the risk of ruining an auspicious future if we continue to beat
up on our kids, particularly the least advantaged," said Dr. Jack Lewin, a top
official of the California Medical Association, California's largest
organization of doctors.

One state welfare official welcomed the study for pointing out groups that may
need help. "We believe these kinds of studies are very important to allow us to
target our state resources effectively," said Kathryn Lowell, assistant
secretary of the state Health and Welfare Agency.

But Lowell declined to comment on whether the study would have an impact on Gov.
Pete Wilson's plans to implement federal welfare reform. Wilson has not yet
decided whether to deny Medi-Cal eligibility to all the state's legal
immigrants, or just to those who have come to California since August.

Reflective of state
The study surveyed 795 Latino families in South-Central and East Los Angeles in
1992. But the authors said the findings would likely apply to Latinos in San
Jose, San Francisco or any of California's cities. "It's very similar all over
California," said Dr. Neal Halfon, who worked with a team of UCLA researchers
including Dr. Robert Burciaga Valdez.

The study found that 80 percent of these parents were not U.S. citizens -- 48
percent were legal immigrants and 32 percent were illegal immigrants. But 96
percent of all their children were born in the United States, and thus most were
citizens.

Of the children, 84 percent qualified for Medi-Cal, but 39 percent had sporadic
or no Medi-Cal coverage, despite their eligibility. Children of non-citizen
immigrants were far more likely to lack coverage than those of citizens.

Variety of reasons
The study did not pinpoint why these children weren't getting coverage, but the
UCLA researchers speculated that it may be a combination of reasons. Medi-Cal
coverage is typically tied to welfare benefits -- and most working parents may
have assumed that neither they nor their children were eligible for either.

"Maybe they don't know they're eligible," said Halfon. "Maybe there have been
too many barriers to signing up. We don't know."

Some Latino parents may have felt discouraged from seeking coverage for their
children because of their own immigrant status. "There are these subtle ways in
which we're keeping people out," Halfon said.

Among the study's other intriguing findings:

* More Latino families of illegal immigrants were employed and living in
two-parent households than were citizen Latino families.

* Because illegal immigrants worked in low-wage jobs with few or no benefits,
their children had lower rates of health insurance coverage than those of Latino
citizens. Although 92 percent of the children of illegal immigrants were
eligible for Medi-Cal, only 44 percent were getting it.

* Children of immigrant families were far more likely than children of citizen
families to have medical care postponed because their parents couldn't pay for
it.

Workers without benefits
The study noted that because non-citizen immigrant families had higher rates of
employment than citizens, they ironically were less likely to get the benefit of
Medi-Cal for their children.

"Despite strong workforce participation, immigrant Latino families are among the
poorest population in California," the study said.

Lewin, the doctors' group official, noted that anti-immigrant policies have
"become fashionable once again." But he also suggested that federal welfare
reform and California's Proposition 187 -- a measure seeking to deny various
government benefits to illegal immigrants, that is now tied up in the courts --
went even further than the people intended.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Which toddlers are eligible for Medi-Cal; which ones get it
[970226 FR 1A 8]

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: FEBRUARY 28, 1997

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 2/28/97, pg. 2A)
A Page 1A story Wednesday incorrectly described Gov. Pete Wilson's policy on
Medi-Cal eligibility for California's legal immigrants. Wilson has proposed
continuing coverage for legal immigrants who arrived before August 1996 but not
those who have come here since then.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 16, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RECALLING ST. PATRICK'S BRIGADE IRISH IMMIGRANT SOLDIERS FOUGHT FOR THE MEXICAN
ARMY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Irish immigrant soldiers who deserted and fought for the enemy during the war
with Mexico are revered south of the border, honored in Ireland and all but
forgotten in the United States.

It's time for this country to acknowledge the San Patricios existed, says
Patrick Coggins, who is leading a crusade to dust off the history books.

The San Patricios (the St. Patrick's brigade) was the name of the unit the men
formed in the Mexican Army. They fought well, maybe too well. Once back in
American hands, 50 of them ended up at the end of a rope. Many others were
branded on the right cheek with a two-inch letter D -- for deserter.

Coggins and some friends were to don San Patricio uniforms and march in San
Francisco's St. Patrick's Day parade today. Last year the unit took first place.

Some people objected to the heroic portrayal of the Irish soldiers when the 1995
documentary "The San Patricios" was shown last year in San Antonio, said
Coggins, who first heard of the San Patricios while working with Cesar Chavez
and the United Farm Workers in Delano 25 years ago,

Every year the San Patricios are remembered with a ceremony in Mexico City.
There is also one in County Galway, Ireland, birthplace of the brigade's
commanding officer.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 23, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A LONG, LONG WAIT TO GET A U.S. VISA

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1450 words


When an ailing San Jose woman recently petitioned the U.S. Embassy in Manila for
a visa so her brother could come donate a kidney, little did she know that she
was going up against an especially strict embassy with the largest anti-fraud
investigation office of any worldwide.

U.S. embassies have grown increasingly tightfisted with visas because more and
more foreigners are resorting to extreme measures to get into the United States.
From the Philippines to Russia to Mexico, people are doctoring documents, buying
black-market visas, bribing foreign government officials and even enlisting
mobsters in their efforts to relocate here.

Consequently, visa applicants are being scrutinized more severely and turned
down more often. And those who are trying to get visas legitimately face a much
harder time doing so.

U. S. Embassy officials turned down Jerry Revestir because they didn't believe
that a poor rice farmer with no family in the Philippines would return to that
country after coming here to donate a kidney to his sister, Virgie Frias of San
Jose. Not until his case was taken up by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, did
the 28-year-old obtain permission to come here last month.

2 million overstayed visas

Embassies are getting more strict because 40 percent of the estimated 5 million
undocumented immigrants in the United States got here by overstaying their
visas, according to immigration officials.

"When a person comes to the United States on a visa, it can be very difficult to
get that person to leave, particularly if that person has relatives here," said
Bruce Byers, press attache for the U.S. Embassy in Manila. "If our consular
officials suspect the person won't come back, they simply won't issue the visa."

Some immigration advocates say embassies also are getting stricter because of
the anti-immigrant fervor churning in the United States.

"Embassy people have told me they feel more pressure to be more stringent
because of the attitude of the American people and the winds of change from
Congress," said Bruce Burns, a San Jose immigration attorney.

State Department officials deny that. If anything, they say, they are under more
pressure to issue than to turn down visas -- both from relatives of applicants
and from members of Congress.

"Some embassies are overdoing it," said Richard Konda, a senior attorney with
Asian Law Alliance in San Jose. "You have to have some process of screening
people. But for some countries, it's been made very, very difficult for people
to visit the United States."
Deathbed reunion denied
In one case last year, a married Filipino teacher with three children tried to
get a temporary visa to visit her dying 80-year-old mother in San Jose, Burns
said. The U.S. Embassy in Manila denied her request. When the mother died, the
embassy denied the daughter a visa for the funeral, Burns said.

But even Burns acknowledges the pressures embassies face. And of 12 visa cases
he's handled involving Asian nationals who tried to come here for
medical-related reasons, all eventually got visas after providing extensive
documentation. In each instance, the visa-holder returned home, although three
overstayed their visa's expiration by up to a year.

Officials in foreign embassies say that's precisely why U.S. law requires them
to assume that visa-holders who come to the United States intend to remain here,
and why applicants must prove they will return home. Typically, that involved
providing proof of employment, salary, property ownership and bank accounts.

Even so, it's difficult for embassies to check all applications when staffing
worldwide hasn't kept pace with the number of visas issued, State Department
officials said. In Manila, where lines routinely snake around the building,
Byers said it's common for each consular official to interview 150
temporary-visa applicants a day, spending less than 60 seconds on each.

That makes detecting fraud harder. And these days, deception is occurring more
often for a number of reasons, State Department officials said.
Travel policies relaxed
The sheer volume of applications has grown as former communist-bloc countries
such as China and the former Soviet Union have relaxed their travel policies,
allowing more private individuals to go abroad. That, in turn, has resulted in
more people who try to overstay their visas.

Laser printers and other computer graphics technology have enabled
black-marketers to doctor documents more easily and convincingly.

And as people face increasingly long waits to immigrate to the United States,
some resort to bogus means. The embassy in Manila issues more visas than all but
seven of the 163 U.S. embassies and has the largest anti-fraud office of any.
While immigrants in some countries face no wait to come here, Filipinos wait up
to 20 years because more than half a million want to come here and only 27,558
are allowed in each year, leaving the Philippines with the second-longest
waiting list of any country.

Mexico, with a U.S. Embassy that issues more visas than any other and includes a
large anti-fraud office, has the longest waiting list, with more than 1.3
million people trying to immigrate here.

Fraud can take many forms. The simplest versions involve people with tourist
visas who want to stay here. At other times, employers perpetrate the fraud by
promising skilled, well-paying jobs, but offering only sweatshop work once the
immigrants arrive.
Black-market bonanza

In still other instances, a State Department official said, a black-marketeer
may obtain a visa by paying $500 to someone who legitimately qualified for a
visa, but who has no intention of traveling. The black-marketeer then alters the
visa and slaps it into a real passport. That alteration is sometimes spotted
easily, embassy officials said.

In more complex cases, the official said, Russian organized-crime operations in
the United States have created shell companies and filed visa petitions for
overseas criminals to work here. Using law-enforcement data-bases, embassy
officials can determine if the companies are linked to organized crime.

At the anti-fraud office in Manila, one of the oldest around, two full-time
officers and six full-time investigators conducted more than 630 investigations
in the first four months of this year, a State Department official said. Almost
half produced evidence of fraud.

In one recent raid, the official said, Manila law-enforcement agencies
confiscated 10,000 fake visas at the hideouts of various criminal syndicates.

China, on the other hand, which has experienced rapid economic growth, has some
of the newer anti-fraud offices. The result has been more visa applicants and a
greater need to interview them, the consular officer said. About 84,000 Chinese
people applied for visas in fiscal 1994. That will swell to 160,000 in fiscal
1997. The refusal rate was 15 percent in fiscal 1994. This year, it's expected
to be 20 percent.

The fraud encountered in Beijing includes applicants who have lied about their
marital status to join so-called spouses who are studying or working legally in
the United States. In other cases, for a price, government delegations have
agreed to include among their members people who otherwise wouldn't qualify for
a visa. Such individuals may sneak through this way because these delegations
are processed as a group.

In 1991, consulates began issuing photo-ID visas that can be read by a computer.
Such visas are more difficult to forge, Byers said.

The embassy in Manila also now prohibits people from applying for a temporary
visa more than once within six months. With this policy, the embassy hopes to
shorten lines and give consular officials more time to review applicants.

Although attorneys can help facilitate matters, embassies are not required by
law to work with them and can choose to deal solely with the applicant, Burns
said. And while consular officials are supposed to provide a written denial
explanation, those sometimes leave applicants unsure whether they have been
denied or simply need to provide more documents.

Even though Virgie Frias, the ill San Jose woman, fought a bottle to get a visa
for her brother, she harbors no resentment. Her brother, the most compatible
kidney donor she could find, is now completing medical tests at Stanford
University Medical Center for the expected surgery.

"Lots of people falsify papers, so I can understand why officials are so
strict," Frias said. "They have a hard job. It's what they have to do."

CHART:  MERCURY NEWS
ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION BY COUNTRY
SOURCE: INS Office of Policy and Planning

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: This story has been retyped for the data base.
FRAUD OFFICES
The U.S. State Department maintains 163 embassies, 64 consulate generals and
nine consulates worldwide.
Posts with two full-time anti-fraud officers:* Manila, Philippines
Posts with one full-time anti-fraud officer:
* Bangkok, Thailand
* Guangzhou, China
* Guayaquil, Ecuador
* Hong Kong
* Kingston, Jamaica
* Lagos, Nigeria
* Matamoros, Mexico
* Santa Domingo, Dominican Republic
* Toronto, Canada
* Taipei, Taiwan
Posts with one nearly full-time position devoted to anti-fraud work:
* Beijing, China
* Dhaka, Bangladesh
* Delhi, India
* Lahore, Pakistan
* Lima, Peru
* Madras, India
* Moscow, Russia
* Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Source: U.S. State Department

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Virgie Frias, right, fought for a visa so her brother, Jerry Revestir, left,
could give her his kidney.
[970323 FR 13A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 25, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW INS FORM FOR BORDER VISITORS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As of April 1, Mexican citizens traveling to the four U.S. border states and
Nevada will no longer have to fill out different forms than those for other
foreign visitors to the United States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is abandoning a 14-year-old form, the
Mexican Border Visitor's Permit, that is used about 3.6 million times annually
by Mexicans seeking access to the border region.

Since 1983, Mexicans holding either a border-crossing card or non-immigrant visa
could obtain the I-444 Border Visitor's Permit for travel in California, Nevada,
Arizona, New Mexico or Texas.

Now, they'll use the same I-94 form used by all other foreign travelers, as well
as by Mexicans traveling by air or to other parts of the United States.

"Eliminating the I-444 gives enhanced benefits to Mexicans wishing to visit our
country," said Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. "This will improve the service that we can provide for
our visitors and reduce the amount of paperwork they must complete overall."

Travelers using the I-94 form may remain in the United States for up to six
months and travel to any of the 50 states. The form allows for multiple entries
during its six-month life, unlike the Border Visitor's Permit, which must be
obtained upon each entry.

Requiring the same forms of Mexicans as other foreign travelers "standardizes
the rules for non-immigrants and eliminates distinctions that have no
demonstrated enforcement value," the Immigration and Naturalization Service
said.

Use of Form I-94 also allows the agency to track the entries and departures of
visitors -- unlike the old Border Visitor's Permit. The I-94 includes
information about its bearer, unlike the old form.

"We will be able to know who has departed and who has not departed," said Bill
Strassberger of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "If there is an
overstay problem, we would know it."

The I-94 has a $6 processing fee; the fee for the Border Visitor's Permit was
$4. Also, an I-94 form is required for each traveler. An entire family could
travel on one Border Visitor's Permit.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 2, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELLIS ISLAND, N.J.? COULD BE COURT REPORT ADVISES GIVING HALF OF IMMIGRANT
PORTAL TO GARDEN STATE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The huddled masses of lawyers and politicians fighting over whether Ellis Island
belongs to New York or New Jersey may have to compromise.

A court-appointed fact finder recommended Tuesday that the Supreme Court divide
the island, once the nation's gateway for 16 million immigrants -- with New York
getting the main building, now a museum, and New Jersey getting most of the
rest, including a now-abandoned hospital.

The plan to divide the island "reflects the most appropriate reconciliation of
law, equities and practicality," former Columbia University law Professor Paul
Verkuil told the court.

It wasn't clear when the court might rule. But Verkuil's plan was panned by New
York Attorney General Dennis Vacco as one that "ignores the law and rewrites
history."

His state's claim "is clearly and indelibly inscribed in the hearts and beliefs
of the millions of immigrants who set foot here," Vacco said.

Across the harbor, the Garden State was ready to declare victory.

"We have never denied New York's important role in the history of the nation and
immigration," said New Jersey Gov. Christie Whitman. "We have just said we have
an equally important role."

Pride isn't the only thing at stake: Taxpayers would benefit from future
development on the island, New Jersey Attorney General Peter Verniero said.

The recommendation is the result of a 23-day trial before Verkuil last summer.
New Jersey was allowed in 1993 to "sue" New York in the Supreme Court because
the nation's high court sometimes invokes its "original" jurisdiction to resolve
disputes among states.

New Jersey officials contend that most of the island is located in their state.
New York officials disagree, and New York City has taken steps to have the
entire island declared a city landmark.

Millions of immigrants entered the United States through Ellis Island between
1892 and 1954.

The Supreme Court's nine justices can accept or reject the plan. They could
approve Verkuil's report summarily, but a more likely step is to order lawyers
for both states to respond to it.

After that, both sides could be ordered to argue the case before the justices
during the court term that begins in October.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Ellis Island, shown in 1990 aerial photo, should be shared by New Jersey and New
York, a Supreme Court fact finder said Tuesday.
[970402 FR 7A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 9, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT RIGHTS ON THE IMMIGRANT ROAD FROM SANTA FE, NEW MEXICO, TO PORTLAND,
MICHOACAN

BYLINE: RUBEN MARTINEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 871 words


RECENTLY, on a flight from Los Angeles to Guadalajara, I sat behind a Mexican
woman in her forties who stowed a bulging Nordstrom shopping bag in the overhead
bin. Across the aisle a trio of U.S. businessmen, laptops open, were crunching
numbers in some transnational deal. Next to me were two Mexican men in Stetson
hats, jeans, and boots. They were not "middle class" by most standards -- they
had just finished a season working in a Portland meat packing plant -- but here
they were jetsetting next to the gentry of free trade.

I asked the man next to me where he lived. "Portland," he said, and then he
hesitated. "I mean, Michoacan." He smiled. "I guess you could say I live in
Portland, Michoacan."

I thought of my friend Rosa. Though she usually travels over land routes, she
could just as well answer my question, "St. Louis, Michoacan."

Rosa is about as middle class as the cowboys sitting next to me. In the U.S.,
she is at best a "working person," more often an "illegal" or a "wetback." But
she assumes she has the right to middle class mobility, even though forces on
both sides of the border have made that a life or death proposition.

Rosa hails from Cheran, a small town nestled in the Purepecha Indian highlands
of Michoacan. Last spring, her three older brothers set out on their usual route
to California, bound for Watsonville, where they had picked strawberries for
years.

They never made it. After they crossed the border illegally east of San Diego,
they got into a pickup truck. The smuggler at the wheel tried to outrun a Border
Patrol jeep pursuing them, but overturned at a sharp curve in the road. The
brothers were crushed under the mangled chassis of the pickup.

The story made headlines for its numbers -- six others were killed in the crash
and several more critically injured -- and also because it occurred only days
after a highly publicized incident in which Riverside County Sheriff's deputies
were caught by a helicopter newscam severely beating undocumented immigrants
after a freeway chase.

Rosa was working at a posh hotel in downtown St. Louis at the time. She went
home immediately to bury her brothers.

At first, there was no thought of returning to the U.S. Rosa could imagine the
anguish her mother would feel if her daughter undertook the illegal journey. But
eventually Rosa decided to take the risk. Between the 30th of November and the
5th of January, she attempted to cross near Nogales six times with her baby
daughter in her arms. The first five times she was caught and reported. On the
sixth try, she got through -- and walked six hours over rugged desert in
temperatures just above freezing.

Rosa risked her own life and the life of her daughter for reasons that do not
fit the conventional formulation of conservatives or liberals. They are neither
welfare hungry nor just plain hungry. Rosa and her family own a modest home with
electricity and, although they lack running water, they eat three meals a day.
They have a color TV set and a VCR. Adults and kids have enough to wear,
including shoes, for harsh highland winters.

The poorest Mexicans are not, generally speaking, the ones who migrate to the
United States. Most are people like Rosa and her family.

Rosa risks her life because there is an overwhelming feeling of being stuck in
time and space back home in Cheran. The town is too small for people who have
seen how the other half lives. Every Sunday night, the families who own
satellite dishes (about one in four) tune in to "The X Files" at the same time
as North Americans do.

Rosa says she realized her daughter could not get more than an elementary school
education in Mexico -- children in rural areas are expected to work as soon as
they're able-bodied. And it would not be possible to save enough money to buy
such creature comforts as a microwave oven or a stereo to distract her grieving
mother.

And Rosa has personal ambitions, too. "I'd never be able to drive a car here,"
she said to me in Michoacan last year. In St. Louis, she has driven her
brother-in-law's Pontiac Grand Am. She also wears jeans in the States, not the
traditional shawl (rebozo) all Indian woman wear back home. In St. Louis, her
husband helps with the dishes and tends to the baby, behavior picked up in the
liberal north.

From Michoacan, the whole world looks as if it is moving and interconnected.
Hundreds of thousands of Mexicans, rich and poor, have ventured into the world,
and brought the world home.

Rosa does not intend to stay in the north. Like most of her fellow migrants, she
would like to work in the United States for several months a year and spend the
rest of the time with her family in Cheran.

And she feels she has the right to move from one place to another, without
regard to international boundaries and immigration laws.

By facing the fact of her brothers' death and continuing to move on, she is
fighting for that right.

On the morning of the day she left Michoacan for St. Louis, Rosa visited the
church. She lit a candle, and prayed: "My brothers who are in heaven," she
remember s saying, "guide me along the roads so that I can get home alive and
well."

She is home now. In St. Louis, Michoacan.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Ruben Martinez, based in Mexico City, is an editor at Pacific News Service.
RELATED STORY: page 9B

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 10, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS ACCUSED OF VIOLATING RIGHTS OF DETAINED MINORS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 447 words


An international human rights watchdog will release a report today condemning
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service for allegedly violating the
rights of hundreds of undocumented children it detains each year.

The INS obstructs children from learning of their legal rights, discourages them
from contacting attorneys and shouldn't act as both a prosecutor and temporary
caretaker, according the findings of the New York-based group Human Rights
Watch.

"The INS has demonstrated that it is more interested in deporting children than
in protecting their rights," said Lois Whitman, director of the group's
Children's Rights Project.

An INS official denied the allegations. "We're very interested in these
children," Janna Evans said. "We're required by law to take care of them."

Nonetheless, Evans said Commissioner Doris Meissner welcomed the Human Rights
Watch criticism, which she was said to be "carefully reviewing . . . in an
effort to make any improvements to our unaccompanied-minors program that may be
needed."

Nearly 1,000 unaccompanied minors were housed by the INS in six shelters between
October and January, according to INS figures. Of those, 60 percent were
reunited with their families, 18 percent were deported, 17 percent became adults
and remained in custody, and 5 percent escaped.

The report suggested the INS follow the lead of other countries that house
minors in shelters completely independent of the government.

Although Evans called the suggestion "irresponsible," she said the INS would
look into it. "It's something we'll consider, definitely, but it would require a
pretty big legislative fix."

The Human Rights Watch report was based on June interviews with children at a
48-bed, privately run detention shelter in Casa Grande, Ariz.

Lee Tucker, an attorney with the watchdog group, said many of the children she
spoke with reportedly were not told they could select a pro bono attorney from a
list provided by the INS. Tucker said some of the children had no details about
their immigration cases and had not been able to visit public libraries or
attend field trips -- a violation of INS regulations governing children.

Evans disputed the allegations, saying the information was outdated. Evans said
Tucker visited the Arizona shelter when it had "growing pains" and "management
problems" that have since been corrected.

"To the best of our knowledge, things are running smoothly," Evans said. "The
juveniles are treated well, they're being informed of their rights, they have
access to books and classroom education and field trips, access to language
interpreters when they need them, and access to phones."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 17, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO UNEASY WITH U.S. EMISSARIES MEETINGS CONFRONT DRUGS, IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: RICARDO SANDOVAL, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Another Mexican army officer is behind bars, accused of accepting bribes from
drug dealers. Tomatoes and anti-American slogans have been hurled at the U.S.
Embassy. And as crucial national elections near, Mexico's ruling party is
talking tough about standing up to the United States.

This atmosphere, thick as Mexico City's infamous smog, is what President Bill
Clinton's top envoys on drugs and immigration have entered during hastily
planned visits that climax today. Meetings between Mexican officials and U.S.
drug czar Gen. Barry McCaffrey, and Doris Meissner, Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner, are aimed at setting agendas and clearing
the air, just ahead of Clinton's two-day summit with Mexican President Ernesto
Zedillo Ponce de Leon on May 6-7.

McCaffrey is in Mexico City to meet his newest counterparts in the cross-border
fight against drug trafficking. Meissner has an even tougher task: easing
Mexicans' fears that strict new U.S. immigration rules will lead to mass
deportation of suspected illegal migrants.

White House sources said McCaffrey and Meissner also were to meet this week with
Mexican members of the binational commission established to deal with
cross-border issues. Clinton will address a full meeting of that commission next
month.

"(McCaffrey and Meissner) are Clinton's sherpas," said Peter Reuter, a Mexico
analyst with the Rand Corp. think tank in Santa Monica. "They will say nothing
but nice things publicly, but in private they will certainly relay concerns
about what's happening in Mexico."

What's happened of late has the Clinton administration fretting over its
recertification of Mexico as a cooperative partner in the war on drugs.

"The administration swallowed hard and certified Mexico. . . . It has no choice
but to try to make Mexico appear in public as a solid drug fighter," Reuter
said. "But Mexico is extremely corrupt, and this whole business is proving quite
embarrassing for both administrations."

Tuesday, Mexican prosecutors arrested an Army major who was charged with
accepting $200,000 from trafficker Amado Carrillo Fuentes. The major, who was
not identified, is said to have warned Carrillo Fuentes in January that Mexican
anti-drug agents were about to arrest him by crashing his sister's wedding.
Carrillo Fuentes is the reputed head of northern Mexico's biggest drug network,
and is the alleged patron of Gen. Jose de Jesus Gutierrez Rebollo. The former
leader of Mexico's anti-drug campaign, Gutierrez was jailed in February on drug
charges not long after McCaffrey praised his work.

Another general, Alfredo Navarro, was arrested in March for his alleged ties to
the Tijuana-based Arellano Felix drug enterprise.

Tuesday, the Mexican attorney general's office announced that two agents of the
troubled National Institute for the War on Drugs had been arrested for failing
to report a 1.6-ton shipment of marijuana they had seized and hidden at a ranch
in Baja California Sur.

Mexican analysts and newspaper columnists suggested Wednesday that the arrests
were another public display of tough anti-drug efforts intended to impress U.S.
lawmakers. Bolstering that sign of Mexican strength, analysts noted, was
Mexico's loud and successful protest against U.S. requests to arm Drug
Enforcement Administration agents in Mexico.

"Mexican sovereignty has been officially protected," Luis Miguel Rionda,
political scientist at the University of Guanajuato, said sarcastically. "That
was something the Mexican government could easily get its hands around and look
tough against American intervention. The government, with elections coming that
they could lose, will try to use the immigration issue the same way."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: McCaffrey
[970417 FR 12A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 27, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION FORUM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 74 words


Immigration will be the topic of the next community forum conducted by the
Common Ground Project at public libraries. The forum will be 6:30 to 9 p.m.
Tuesday at the Santa Clara Library, 2635 Homestead Road in Santa Clara.

This series of forums allows ordinary citizens to discuss issues of concern to
the community. A neutral moderator leads the group, and differing viewpoints are
considered with an emphasis on dialogue, not debate.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 29, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INVESTIGATION OF IMMIGRATION SERVICE BEGINS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 175 words


An investigation of alleged mismanagement, misconduct and illegality in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's citizenship program was started Monday
by the Justice Department inspector general. The Citizenship USA program was the
immigration service's vehicle for naturalizing more than 1 million people
between September 1995 and October 1996. Inspector General Michael Bromwich said
his probe would focus on development of the program and its implementation.

The immigration service has been under attack for allowing 180,000 foreigners to
become citizens without waiting for the results of FBI background checks. Nearly
11,000 of the new citizens had felony records, but criminal conviction, even on
a felony charge, is not an automatic bar to citizenship. An ongoing audit has
discovered 168 cases of improper naturalization. GOP lawmakers alleged the
process was rushed to naturalize as many people as possible in time for the
November 1996 elections and said Vice President Al Gore's office might have
played a role in that.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                APRIL 30, 1997 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

UNION CITY PARALEGAL FACES SEX, FRAUD CHARGES

BYLINE: DAN REED, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 640 words


When Avtar Singh Gill called Union City police last month to allege that
employees had embezzled money, the office workers and clients had a few
allegations of their own about him:

Attempted rape, sexual battery, lewd and lascivious conduct with a minor, credit
card fraud, false identifications, threats.

To name a few.

Gill, who is in Santa Rita Jail on a no-bail hold, will appear in Fremont
Municipal Court today to enter his pleas on eight felony counts stemming, in
part, from the backlash. Investigators also are checking for other alleged
female victims. And U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service investigators
are exploring claims that Gill forged signatures and falsified information on
immigration documents.

"He's taking advantage of people from his own country and culture and exploiting
them here in the United States," Union City police detective James Bizieff said
of Gill's largely Indian clientele, some of whom told police he threatened to
deport them or bar their relatives from entering the country if they didn't do
as he said. "He was saying there are things he can do to them that they don't
know he can't do."

Gill was not available for comment while in jail, and a message left at his
Union City home was not returned.

Police said Gill contributed to his downfall when he reported on March 5 that
former workers at the Law Offices of M.D. Kramer, the Union City office where he
worked as an administrator and paralegal, had embezzled thousands of dollars and
had stolen equipment.

Police said they found no evidence of that. In fact, they believe Gill
fabricated the accusations to pressure the former employees "to return to the
office (to work with him) or to get money from them," Bizieff said.

Later in March, a 40-year-old client reported that Gill bit her breast and
grabbed and kissed her 11-year-old daughter.

The woman, trying to muddle through the immigration forms to enable her husband
to come here from India, had gone to Gill after hearing an advertisement for his
office on an Indian radio station.

Gill insisted he needed to come to her home, and on the first visit, he forcibly
tried to kiss her, as he had before in his office, she told police. The second
time, she said, he lifted her shirt and bit her breast before she drove him
away.

He warned her not to tell anyone or he would bar her husband from immigrating
and would spread a lie that he'd had sex with her, ruining "her marriage and her
reputation," a police report says.

As the twin investigations continued, police said, they found that he'd twice
tried to rape a 17-year-old office worker and that he'd signed up for more than
20 credit accounts under a false name.

The girl, an aspiring lawyer, said she often had to fend off his advances -- his
touching her buttocks or even brushing a hand against her breast. She said that
twice -- in January and in April 1996 -- he unzipped his pants and pinned her
down, rubbing his groin against her and groping her until she screamed and broke
free. She had threatened to call the police, but Gill wrongly told her she had
no case because there had been no sex, the report says.

She told police she feared he would hurt her, adding that Gill "would also brag
about the guns he owned and that he was not afraid to use them."

In the alleged credit scam, police said, Gill used a falsified driver's license
and Social Security number. Avtar Singh Gill would pay his bills, but Avtar
Singh -- no "Gill" on the end -- ran up at least $74,000 in debt, at stores
ranging from Macy's and J.C. Penney Co. to gas stations and jewelry stores, that
he never intended to pay back, Bizieff said.

Kulwantbir Sandhu, an assistant to Gill, told police he saw Gill "flash several
credit cards and brag about fooling the credit card companies," the report said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 1, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OUT OF DEATH ROW, INTO SOAP OPERA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 127 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


A Mexican man newly freed from death row in Texas has signed to act in a soap
opera on the plight of Mexican immigrants in the United States, a leading TV
network said Wednesday.

Ricardo Aldape Guerra served 15 years in prison in the slaying of a Houston
police officer, most of them on death row awaiting execution. Texas freed him
last month after appeals judges upheld allegations of police and prosecutor
misconduct.

Aldape Guerra returned to a hero's welcome in Mexico, where many never doubted
his innocence. Since coming back, he has urged would-be immigrants to stay out
of the United States.

Television Azteca said Aldape Guerra will appear in at least 15 episodes of
"North of the Heart," which deals with immigration to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 14, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS DEPORTATIONS REACH NEW HIGHS INCREASED FUNDING, NEW LAWS CREDITED

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 539 words


Illegal and criminal immigrants are being deported in record numbers from
Northern and central California as well as from other regions throughout the
United States, according to a Department of Justice report released Tuesday.

Immigration and Naturalization Service deportations in the San Francisco
district, which stretches from Bakersfield to Oregon, were up 62 percent from
October 1996 through March 1997. A total of 1,332 people were deported during
that six-month period, compared with 830 a year before.

More than half of the 42,426 deported from the United States during the same six
months were convicted criminals, statistics show.

San Francisco INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said the rise in deportations is
directly related to an increase in agency funding, which has provided for
additional holding cells and 91 more investigators and agents, among other
employees.

"We've got a lot of additional resources to work with," Rummery said. "We know
this is exactly what the public wants."

Deportations nationwide are projected to soar to as high as 93,000 by October,
when the current fiscal year ends, Rummery said. There were nearly 69,000
deportations the entire previous fiscal year.

The number of deportations has been increasing steadily since fiscal 1993, when
42,299 were deported.

Removing criminal immigrants is a major effort backed by the Clinton
administration.

"We need to remember that these criminal alien statistics represent more than
just numbers," INS general counsel David Martin said in a prepared statement.
"Each criminal alien removed means one less dangerous person on our streets."

Immigration reforms that took effect April 1 make it easier to deport convicted
criminals. Crimes such as stalking have been added to a list of felonies that
can lead to deportation of legal residents, Rummery said.

The San Diego sector logged the most deportations from October 1996 through
March 1997, with 12,926; followed by the Phoenix sector with 4,799, and Los
Angeles with 3,655.

In terms of percentages, the Newark, N.J.,area led metropolitan districts, with
a 283 percent increase. The Phoenix district recorded a decrease of 5 percent
during the same period.

The deportation figures do not include those who are caught trying to enter at
U.S. borders or who agree to voluntary removal.

Mexico was the main destination for deported immigrants. Other top destinations
included Central America, the Caribbean, South America and China.

CHART:DEPORTATIONS CLIMB
U.S. deportations of illegal and criminal immigrants have shot up in the first
six months of fiscal 1997. The San Francisco district, comprised of Northern and

 central California, showed the fifth largest increase among metropolitan
regions nationwide. Figures are for first six months of fiscal 1996 and 1997.
DISTRICT              1996          1997         INCREASE
San Francisco          830          1,332         62%
El Paso              1,929          2,607         35%
Los Angeles          2,793          3,655         31%
San Diego           11,355          12,926         14%
Phoenix              5,050          4,799         (5%)
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service
MERCURY NEWS

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 18, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY: IMMIGRANTS BOOST ECONOMY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 441 words


Immigrants -- both legal and illegal -- may be adding as much as $10 billion to
the economy each year and have little negative effect on job opportunities for
most citizens, according to a major, federally mandated study destined to be
cited by both sides in the explosive immigration debate.

But the 500-page report from the National Research Council also provided
compelling new evidence Saturday that taxpayers in California bear an unequal
burden in providing services for both legal and illegal newcomers and their
families, especially in education and health care.

The study said residents in most of the country enjoy a net tax gain, as
immigrants are concentrated in just six states, but their taxes mostly go to the
federal government.

"We benefit a lot from immigration in Los Angeles and California, but there's a
real budget problem in providing services for immigrants whose taxes do not
cover the local costs," said James P. Smith, senior economist at the Santa
Monica-based Rand Corp., who served as chairman of a high-powered panel of 12
academic experts who wrote the report.

Moreover, high immigration likely will trigger broad changes in the U.S.
population makeup over the next half century -- with whites representing only
half the population and Latinos one quarter by 2050.

Although finding that immigration aided the economy as a whole, the report also
acknowledged "gainers" and "losers" in current U.S. policy.

The clear losers are low-skilled domestic workers who suffer falling wages and
job displacement because of competition from immigrants.

The "winners" are the immigrants themselves, employers and other workers who
benefit from their labor, and consumers who purchase goods produced by immigrant
labor.

Immigrants, the panel said, do not significantly reduce job opportunities and
wages for most Americans.

Overall, the study found that competition from immigrants had depressed the
wages of native-born high-school dropouts by about 5 percent since 1980.

Beyond economic and fiscal questions, the panel also scrutinized the huge impact
that immigration is exerting on the size and composition of the U.S. population.

Its sweeping demographic findings, although in line with current research,
likely will surprise many unaware of just how dramatically immigration is
reshaping the national makeup.

The transformation is most vivid in California, where one in four residents are
now foreign-born, by far the nation's highest proportion. Nationwide, the
foreign-born account for 9.3 percent of the U.S. population, almost double the
total in 1970, according to census estimates.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 19, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RENO BLASTS PROP. 209 IN COMMENCEMENT SPEECH

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 211 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Attorney General Janet Reno criticized Proposition 209 and a growing
anti-immigration sentiment during a commencement speech Sunday at the University
of California's Hastings College of Law.

"We must always honor this country as a nation of immigrants," she said. "We
cannot deny that we are a multicultural society. . . .

"I am concerned in the wake of Proposition 209 that future classes won't be able
to benefit from such rich (cultural and racial diversity)."

Proposition 209, which bans consideration of race and gender in state hiring,
contracting and education, was approved by California voters in November.

It has not taken effect because of legal challenges.

Reno decried the measure and the "growing development of anti-immigrant
sentiment."

She recalled her Danish father, who died in 1967.

"I remember when people teased him for his funny clothes and language," she
said. "He never forgot that.

"Four years later, he was writing beautiful English. He went on to become a
reporter for the Miami Herald."

Reno, who took office in 1993, also had advice for the graduates.

"Learn how to negotiate," she said. "Use mediation and other appropriate forms
of resolution.

"Use the tools of common sense to solve your clients' problems."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 25, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE ECONOMICS OF ENGLISH FLUENCY SKILLS EVEN MORE CRITICAL IN INFORMATION AGE

BYLINE: R.A. ZALDIVAR, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 947 words

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va.


EVEN as the immigrants of the 1990s bring an ever-greater variety of languages
to America, technological change is boosting the economic and social importance
of learning English.

Language experts and economic researchers say that English skills -- speaking,
reading and writing -- are worth more in the Information Age than in previous
periods of high immigration. Immigrants realize it. In many states, there are
long waiting lists for adult English classes.

"There is absolutely no reason to believe that immigrants are learning English
more slowly these days," said Allene Grognet of the Center for Applied
Linguistics, a national research and language-training organization. "Nobody
knows better the value of English than someone who doesn't speak it."

Yet the notion of an English dividend may not be apparent to native speakers.

With the rush of new arrivals from Latin America and Asia, many in the United
States fear English is being devalued and displaced, edged out by Spanish,
Korean or another imported immigrant tongue. The effort to pass a national law
declaring English the official language reflects concern that America is sliding
toward Babel.

In the 19th century, it was not unheard of for a community to function in a
foreign language, say German, right down to the schools. And as recently as the
1970s, there were plenty of manufacturing jobs that did not require much
English.

Not so anymore. Computers. Automated phone systems. E-mail. Faxes. The standard
tools of the modern workplace require English-language skills.Cashiers at
McDonald's used to have registers with pictures of menu items; now they ring up
orders by touching a computerized screen with words on it.

"You have to be able to read the words on the screen," said Susan Bayley,
director of Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages, a professional
organization.

Outside the workplace, the value of English has also risen.

For example, as recently as the early 1980s, calling a doctor's office to make
an appointment involved a fairly simple dialogue. These days, a caller might
encounter an automated answering system or a "gatekeeper" with a list of
questions.

The economic value of English can be measured in dollars.

Using Census data, University of Illinois economist Barry Chiswick estimated
that immigrants who become proficient in English can expect to earn 15 percent
to 19 percent more than those who don't. Chiswick controlled for other important
factors that affect income, such as schooling, age and homeland. Without such
adjustments, the gap is even larger.

Chiswick went further. He analyzed English fluency as a hypothetical investment.
Conclusion: It beats the stock market.

Assuming a year invested in becoming fluent, the return each year thereafter
would be 18 percent. If it took two years to gain fluency, the annual return
would be 9 percent. A successful six-month crash course would net a 36 percent
return.

"This is a type of human capital," said Chiswick. "Success in the U.S. really
depends upon fluency in English."

It can take two years to establish functional fluency in English, and four to
seven years to develop academic mastery.

Statistics aren't available on how fast immigrants learned English in earlier
eras, but according to the 1990 Census, about half the foreign-born say they
speak only English or speak English "very well."

The rest are divided evenly among those who say they speak English "well" and
those who have difficulties. Many of the latter are Spanish-speakers.

Spanish-speakers are the most numerous foreign-language speakers, but compared
with other immigrants, they are slower to acquire English.

Fifty-five percent of foreign-born Spanish-speakers are fluent in English,
compared with 80 percent of those who speak other languages.

Reasons for the slower pace could include the presence of large Hispanic
communities, continuing immigration, close contacts with Latin American
homelands, as well as a flourishing Spanish-language media.

Nonetheless, there's a similar pattern for all groups: each generation speaks
less and less of the original language, which usually disappears in the
grandchildren of immigrants.

Gada Mohammad is putting in the effort to learn English. Five mornings a week,
he takes English classes at the nationally recognized Arlington Education and
Employment Program, a county agency. Sometimes he gets headaches from focusing
too hard on English words he doesn't understand.

"I get stuck on a word," said Mohammad. "I'm frustrated, but I'm not going to
give up because of my frustration."

As a teen-age guerrilla fighting the Soviet Army in the mountains of his native
Afghanistan, he admired Western television crews covering that war.

From then on, he wanted to work for CNN.

Mohammad, now 26, has been in America for nine years and works in an airline
ground crew. He still dreams of going into television. The problem: though he
speaks English well, he struggles with reading and writing, so much that it
sometimes makes his head hurt.

"In a lot of jobs I qualify as a speaker, but I need to read and write," said
Mohammad. "You can't go anywhere in this country without reading and writing.
You don't want to be the rest of your life a dishwasher working for $5 an hour.
The economy is changing so fast."

In his spare time, Mohammad launches off on the Internet, linking up with
cyberspace conversation partners despite his difficulties with English.

"When you find nice people," he said, "they don't care about your spelling."

CHART: KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
The importance of speaking English

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Sunday Focus: Pacfic Rim

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
Gada Mohammad participates in an English class in Arlington, Va. He has been in
the United States nine years and works as a ground-crew member for an airline.
[970525 BU 1D 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 30, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

RUMOR HURTS FLEA MARKET INS WARNING: STATION'S APPARENTLY ERRONEOUS REPORT CUTS
SALES, VENDORS SAY.

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 560 words


It started out as a routine request: The caller asked a San Jose
Spanish-language radio station to play his favorite song.

Then it turned into a major moment of anxiety for listeners of KLOK-AM: The
caller announced that immigration agents were seen on Berryessa Road, near the
San Jose Flea Market. Not long after, the station warned listeners that la migra
was conducting raids in the area, which apparently was untrue.

And with that brief call began what has become the biggest rumor in the local
Latino community, one that hasn't died down after a month. The rumor does not
appear connected to any recent events or INS crackdown.

KLOK General Manager Sue Bell wouldn't discuss the matter Thursday other than to
say, "It's something that happened weeks ago."

Because of the rumor, some flea market vendors say, business has plummeted as
much as 60 percent at a place where Latinos make up half the customer base.

"The rumor has terrorized everybody," said Francisco Guerrero, owner of three
clothing shops catering to Latinos.

Yet even Guerrero, who doesn't believe a raid occurred, insists he saw a couple
of immigration agents strolling in the outdoor market April 26. Another vendor,
who sells Spanish-language music, swears she saw -- "with my very own eyes" --
the same agents in their trademark-green uniforms that day.

Flea market officials and an Immigration and Naturalization Service spokeswoman
said agents were not at the flea market that Saturday.

"They were never here," insisted Pat Detar, a flea market manager who reserves
selling spaces for vendors.

Perhaps a case of mistaken identity? After all, Detar said, two animal control
officers were walking around the flea market just hours after the rumor began;
they wore badges, their uniforms were green.

The rumor has it that two bus loads of illegal immigrants were picked up at the
flea market's main entrance. Others, however, described the vehicles as vans,
not buses, according to vendors.

"People don't know exactly what happened," said Esther Velasquez, a 13-year flea
market vendor who estimated that her clothing sales have dipped about 60 percent
since the rumor first circulated. "I tell my customers it's not true and they
say 'Yes, yes, yes it is.' "

Carolina Vasquez, who owns a small Mexican food shop on the produce aisle, said
she routinely sold at least 150 pounds of fresh cheese each weekend in the
pre-rumor days, and at the same time last year. Last weekend, which included an
extra sales day for the Memorial Day holiday, she sold only 75 pounds.

Sales are so bad, she wonders if the rumor is true. "I really don't know,"
Vasquez said. "There are people who say yes, there are people who say no."

The flea market's front office has heard from many angry vendors and concerned
customers.

John Detar, the marketing director, who is Pat Detar's brother, chided KLOK for
not verifying the caller's information, and for repeating the rumor over the
next few days. He also complained to competing stations for broadcasting the
KLOK information; those stations have since apologized on the air, he said, but
KLOK apparently has not.

"Our concern was that this evokes a scene of arrests going on, a nasty bad image
for our customers and we did not want to have that image put out there," he
said. "There was absolutely no truth to this."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: JUNE 14, 1997

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 6/14/97, pg. 2A)
An article in May 30 local sections of the Mercury News about a rumored
immigration raid at the San Jose Flea Market may have incorrectly described a
radio station's involvement. The article reported that San Jose's KLOK-AM warned
listeners that agents were conducting raids in the area. Station management says
KLOK employees did not broadcast any such warnings. Two listeners said they
heard such a statement.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JUNE 16, 1997 Monday SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

BORDER PATROL AGENT KILLED IN APPARENT ACCIDENTAL FALL

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 193 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A U.S. Border Patrol agent died after tumbling down a ravine while trying to
locate what he thought was a group of illegal immigrants, authorities said
Sunday.

Stephen Starch, 25, of the El Cajon station died late Saturday afternoon from
head trauma, according to Border Patrol spokesman Jim Pilkington.

"We're pretty sure the head trauma was caused after the accidental fall,"
Pilkington said from the Border Patrol's San Diego headquarters.

"There's nothing at this time to indicate foul play," he added.

Starch was working in the rugged, mountainous terrain west of Tecate Peak in the
rural community of Dulzura.

Officials said he was tracking a group thought to be in the United States
illegally.

"He was working with a partner, and they split up to pursue different trails in
the same general area," Pilkington said.

About 3:30 p.m., other agents were unable to contact Starch by radio and began a
search, with help from a U.S. Customs Service helicopter and the Coast Guard.

About three hours later, agents found Starch at the bottom of a ravine near
Cottonwood Creek.

He was pronounced dead at the scene, Pilkington said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JUNE 22, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REFORM PARTY RE-FORMS

BYLINE: PATRICK MAY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 838 words


Here's one way political sausage gets made:

About 200 delegates with the fledgling Reform Party of California huddle inside
a downtown San Jose hotel. Their briefcases bulge with charts showing what's
wrong with America. Their pockets are stuffed with proposed solutions scratched
out on business cards and cocktail napkins. They meet non-stop over espresso, at
poolside, in cramped meeting rooms. And, if all goes right, they figure out how
to make third-party politics palatable to the common citizen.

Saturday marked the midpoint of a three-day convention that turned the Hyatt San
Jose-Airport into a "people's party" stronghold: pep-rally speeches, spirited
committee meetings that dragged deep into the night, hallway debates over
campaign and immigration reform that featured some of the wackier ideas
delegates brought with them.

Suggestions on that last topic ranged from calling out the National Guard to
watch the borders so border patrol could do nothing but chase illegal immigrants
to a full-bore ban on all immigration, legal and illegal.

Through it all, the Party That Ross Built tried to decide what it wants to be
when it grows up.

"We're still small and fumbling around, but we're not dead," said San Jose party
organizer Linda Curry-Hermann. "People think just because Ross Perot stepped
back a bit, that that was it. But we're really just beginning. In 10 years, the
Reform Party will be a major player in this country."

In what Curry-Hermann calls "grass roots at its best, its most raw and its
wildest," the delegates -- engineers, teachers, entrepreneurs; mostly
middle-aged and white -- set about scaling a very steep hill: get credentials in
order, draw up rules and bylaws, solicit new candidates for all strata of
elected office, and figure out how to fund-raise their way into the national
political arena.

For the first time, the state's Reformers are doing it all largely without the
party's founder. Perot ended up with 8 percent of the national vote in the 1996
presidential race, a far cry from his 19 percent showing four years earlier.

"We're moving beyond Perot," said delegate Eugenia Martines, a retired school
teacher from Corcoran in the San Joaquin Valley. "Even though he didn't do that
well in 1996, he at least gave us a voice. This is our second wind."

They'll need it.

After the miracle
Overall, third-party candidates didn't fare well in the last national election.
Although this state's Reform Party pulled off what members call the "California
Miracle" in 1996 when they registered 110,000 new members in 18 days, the group
has since lost voters and needs to enlist thousands more just to keep the
party's place on future ballots. At last count, the Reform Party of California
had 108,000 registered voters, said party chairman Michael Farris, who hails
from Thousand Oaks.

The way to bring in new blood, said many delegates roaming the Hyatt this
weekend, is to hammer out a concise, moderate, no-nonsense campaign platform
that offers an alternative to the two major parties. The hammering began bright
and early Friday as three dozen delegates on the plat form committee shut
themselves inside a meeting room that opens onto the poolside garden. For
several hours, they banged away noisily on dozens of hot-button topics --
arguing, debating, seeking consensus on everything from insisting all government
function in English only, to balancing the federal budget, to reforming the
penal code with the use of boot camps.

"Some of the proposals are kind of wacky," said Curry-Hermann, as she shuttled
between sub-committees on education, trade and media access. "The key to this
process is to keep the more extreme ideas out of the platform. Otherwise, we'll
just alienate the people we're trying to appeal to out there."

Debate upon debate
By 3 p.m., they'd broken into smaller groups. In one of the more animated
corners of the room, eight delegates stood around a big sheet of butcher paper
duct-taped to the wall. They pondered the proposals before them on how to ease
the nation's immigration woes. At one point, four debates flared simultaneously
within the group.

" 'Deport all illegal immigrants' sounds too harsh to me," said one delegate.

"OK, strike it," said another.

"If we deport them all, who's gonna pick our strawberries?" asked a third man.

"Don't worry about it," said delegate Linda Thum from Santa Barbara. "There are
three times as many agricultural workers right now as there are jobs."

The debate bounced to and fro, lasting well into the evening.

By Saturday morning, the exhausted delegates had crafted a much more moderate
set of immigration proposals -- the ban suggestion transformed into a call for
more strictly enforced limitations -- into a plank to be voted on by the entire
delegation later in the weekend.

They seemed proud of their accomplishment, confident their proposals would end
up one day as a cog in a great national juggernaut, and not just some jottings
on a piece of hotel stationary.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 4, 1997 Friday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

SEEKING A VOICE IN TODAY'S ISSUES NEW CITIZENS GOING TO POLLS IN RECORD NUMBERS
IMMIGRANT VOTE COULD DECIDE FUTURE ELECTIONS

BYLINE: TYCHE HENDRICKS, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1182 words


In a trend that could influence future elections, immigrants are becoming
citizens and voting in record numbers, eager to have a voice in policy-making in
the wake of Proposition 187, welfare reform and other measures that they
perceive as targeting them.

A new report by the Northern California Coalition for Immigrant Rights shows new
voters turned out at the polls at a much higher rate than the general
electorate. The study, which may be the first to document the phenomenon,
tracked the voting patterns of new citizens in San Francisco and Marin counties
in the November presidential election.

The increase in voter turnout, coupled with surging rates of nat uralization
among Latinos and Asians in California and across the country, could be enough
to influence presidential elections. The coalition estimates that if citizenship
rates remain at current levels nationally, more than 6 million immigrants will
have become citizens -- and eligible to vote -- between 1992 and 2000. President
Clinton won the 1992 election by a margin of fewer than 5 million votes.

"With literally millions of immigrants naturalizing and becoming eligible voters
nationwide in the next few years," said Anita Wadhwani, program director for the
coalition, "this historic phenomenon could have broad implications for the
electorate, for politics and for policy-making."

Wadhwani said immigrants have been motivated to become voting citizens by
measures such as Proposition 187, California's 1994 ballot measure that would
deny public benefits to undocumented immigrants, and by fed eral laws like the
1996 Illegal Immigration and Immigrant Responsibility Act that makes it easier
to deport criminal immigrants, even permanent legal residents of the United
States. Both laws are tied up in the courts.

At the same time, 3 million immigrants granted legal residence under the 1986
Immigration Reform and Control Act became eligible for citizenship in the early
1990s.

Guillermo Tejada, 29, an Oakland resident whose family fled war in El Salvador
15 years ago, became a citizen last summer along with his three brothers and two
sisters. The siblings and their father, also a new citizen, voted for the first
time in the November presidential election. Their mother is studying to improve
her English and hopes to pass the citizenship exam next year.

Tejada said the family was motivated to become citizens because of the
anti-immigrant sentiment they have felt in recent years.

"People say that Latinos are lazy people, that we're all in gangs, that we don't
pay taxes," Tejada said. "That's not true. We contribute a lot to this country."
He is currently a student at Chabot College in Hayward and hopes to become a
social worker.

Majority are Democrats
Tejada said his family voted for Democratic candidates and against Proposition
209, the so-called California Civil Rights Initiative approved but under appeal.
Similarly, the majority of new citizens tracked by the coalition's study
registered as Democrats and overwhelmingly opposed Proposition 209, the
initiative that would eliminate race-based preferences in university admissions
and state hiring and contracts.

The study tracked 20,000 citizens from Northern California that the group had
registered to vote at naturalization ceremonies in 1995 and 1996. It found that
in San Francisco, 78 percent of new citizens who registered to vote turned out
at the polls in November, as opposed to 62 percent of all registered voters. In
Marin, 87 percent of registered new citizens voted, compared to 80 percent of
all registered voters.

Beth Miller of the Secretary of State's Office in Sacramento said her office
doesn't single out new citizens to track their voting patterns, but the findings
of high turnout don't surprise her.

"People who go through the citizenship process are higher propensity voters in
general," she said.

Registration drives
Elma Martinez of the Santa
Clara County Registrar of Voters Office said that her office, working with the
League of Women Voters, registered 9,362 people at swearing-in ceremonies in
1996, where 27,849 immigrants became U.S. citizens. Many more new citizens took
voter registration cards home and mailed them in, while still others registered
to vote outside the ceremonies at tables set up by the political parties.

Martinez said Santa Clara County has tracked the voting patterns of foreign-born
voters, who became citizens at some point in their lives, though not necessarily
in the past year or two. The research revealed that they turn out to vote at
rates comparable to the rest of the electorate.

In November, 66.3 percent of all registered voters in Santa Clara county voted,
whereas 66.1 percent of those born in Spanish-speaking countries, 54.3 percent
of those born in Vietnam and 65.9 percent of those born in China, Hong Kong or
Taiwan went to the polls.

Martinez said she believes the county's practice of providing ballots in
Spanish, Vietnamese and Chinese has helped increase turnout among these groups.

Sharon Rummery, public affairs director for the San Francisco district office of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that interest in citizenship
started to grow in 1994 and has increased each year since.

In fiscal 1995, nearly 50,000 people were naturalized in the San Francisco
district, which runs from Bakersfield to the Oregon border. In fiscal 1996 that
number was over 130,000, Rummery said. She expects the number to be higher in
fiscal 1997.

Of the 1.3 million California Latinos who voted in 1996, 24 percent were
first-time voters who had become citizens in 1995 or 1996, according to Antonio
Gonzalez of the Texas-based Southwest Voter Registration and Education Project.

These new citizens are expand ing the pool of Latino voters in the state, to the
point where 13 percent of all Californians who voted in the November election
were Latinos. In the 1992 general election, Latinos were 9.6 percent of the
state's voters.

"Three things are happening to mobilize Latino voters," said Gonzalez.
"Competitive elections with Latino candidates are taking place at many levels,
hot issues like propositions 187 and 209 are affecting Latinos, and political
parties, unions and service groups are doing more organizing." These forces,
combined with their increased share of the electorate, give Latinos a growing
political importance.

Political muscle
Asian voters also seem to be flexing their political muscle.

The Chinese American Voter Education Committee found that 1996 voter turnout
among Asians in San Francisco was 61.2 percent, slightly higher than the overall
voter turnout of 59.9 percent.

Foreign-born Asians voting for the first time turned out at a whopping 75.6
percent, according to the committee.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
More new citizens [by year, 1992 - 1996]
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service
...and more likely to vote
Marin County - San Francisco
[new citizens voter turnout compared to all registered voters]

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, Photo;
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Oakland residents Julio and Gloria Tejada and their son, Guillermo, from left,
are among the wave of new citizens eager to exercise the right to vote in their
adopted country. The Tejadas fled war in El Salvador 15 years ago.
[970704 LO 1B AL 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 9, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRUG KINGPIN'S BODY IDENTIFIED IN MEXICO

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 143 words


Fingerprints taken from the body of Mexico's No. 1 drug trafficker, Amado
Carrillo Fuentes, have been positively matched to his U.S. immigration
identification card, a senior U.S. official said Tuesday. The U.S.Drug
Enforcement Administration official, who saw the body at a clinic, said he and
his colleagues are convinced the corpse belongs to the drug baron known as the
"Lord of the Skies."

The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said DEA agents were present
when Mexican authorities took fingerprints that were later matched to those on a
border-crossing card issued by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The INS regularly issues such cards to Mexicans who live near the U.S.-Mexico
border. The official said the card was in Carrillo's name, but did not know
when. He would not say where authorities obtained the card.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Carrillo
[970709 FR 8A 3]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    JULY 10, 1997 Thursday PENINSULA EDITION

IMMIGRANT ENTREPRENEURS POOL TALENTS MTN. VIEW NON-PROFIT GROUP HELPS PENINSULA
WOMEN START A BUSINESS

BYLINE: DEBORAH KONG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 846 words


Amid shelves of bride-and-groom wedding cake toppers, bins of plastic bracelets
and colorful pinatas hanging overhead, five Peninsula women are living a story
that reads like a cross between a business textbook and a fairy tale.

They are the proud owners of Fantastic Fiesta Supplies & More, an eastern Menlo
Park business that started with a little help from the Mountain View non-profit
group Women's Action to Gain Economic Security (WAGES) -- and a lot of
determination.

"We feel important. Especially our kids make us feel more important when they
see we have our own store," said Victoria Gaytan, 30, her eyes alight. "We are
advertising on the radio, and when we hear our commercial, we say, 'My God,
that's our store.' It makes you feel so proud. You feel like you can do anything
you want."

Immigrant entrepreneurs
The women, all mothers and immigrants from Mexico or El Salvador in their 20s
and 30s, have worked at jobs ranging from house-cleaning to babysitting. Gaytan,
Teresa Lopez, Ivette Castillo, Esperanza Marquez and Isabel Mejia have received
little education beyond junior high or high school, and only two speak fluent
English. None had a family income exceeding $23,000 when they began the WAGES
training classes.

Since then, they've squeezed meetings in at 7 a.m. and in the late evening,
working in living rooms and kitchens as children played. They've hit the
pavement to research other party businesses, asking customers what they bought
and how much they paid. And they've applied for a loan, stood in line for city
permits and ordered and stocked merchandise.

Opened June 28
All the hard work culminated in the grand opening of their business June 28.

The women met 1 1/2 years ago through the WAGES classes, which help low-income
women with limited education and work experience to start cooperative
businesses. They rejected the ideas of a bakery and a florist shop, because the
items are perishable. Drawing upon their own experience, they hit upon the party
store concept. "We had kids, and we celebrate lots of parties," Gaytan said. "I
think it is a good business to start."

Lopez added, "Napkins and cups and other stuff, if you don't sell, you can
keep."

Their research showed that there were few party stores in their Menlo Park and
East Palo Alto neighborhoods and that many traveled to Redwood City to buy their
napkins, plates, balloons and decorations.

"The Latino community likes to buy party favors, materials to make their own
favors," Gaytan said.

She and Castillo got jobs at Diddams Amazing Party Store in Palo Alto, where
they learned to stock merchandise, use a price scanner and enter merchandise
records into computers. The group also took computer classes at Plugged In, an
East Palo Alto non-profit group that provides Internet access and computer
training for the community.

The women raised $1,500 from selling tamales, held garage sales and painted
children's faces to raise money. In addition, they invested $600 each in the
business. Lenders for Community Development in San Jose made up the difference
with a loan of $35,000.

Much has gone into the modest little storefront at 824 Newbridge St. -- city
permits, insurance, an alarm system and new lighting and displays.

Each woman has a specific responsibility. Lopez, who cleans houses on the days
she isn't in the store, sets work schedules. Gaytan is in charge of ordering
merchandise. Stocking the store cost $14,000, she said.

"We have pinatas, and we also have English (language) cards. We are trying to
have everything for everybody," she said.

For her, the hardest task was preparing an order of 500 balloons within a few
hours at Diddams, Gaytan laughed. But, she said seriously, "I think the biggest
problem is the language, how to explain to people what do you want. The
beginning was difficult, but I think I'm getting experience in that. The thing I
love to do is to work with people."

Each woman brought her own skill: Lopez had passed out advertising fliers for a
pizza restaurant; Castillo studied craft-making in Mexico; and Marquez ran a
home-based business selling food in Mexico.

Not everything has run smoothly. "It's not easy, because we are five different
brains and five different ideas," Gaytan said, noting that the five sometimes
disagreed about which merchandise to buy and how much to charge.

WAGES, which also helped five other women open Non-Toxic Professional
Housecleaning cooperative in Palo Alto, was there along the way to provide child
care during training sessions and help the women with housing and health care
issues, said Anna Olsen, a WAGES staff member. WAGES will also provide
assistance with financial management and organization during the business's
first year.

"I feel like this is not true," Lopez said. "When my son came in here, he asked
her if I work here, and (Gaytan) said, 'No, she is the owner.' My son said,
'What?!' "

"His eyes were that big," Gaytan chimed in.

Castillo explained, "It's like the first step in reaching the American dream."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: LUCI S. WILLIAMS -- MERCURY NEWS
Immigrant entrepreneurs Victoria Gaytan, left, Ivette Castillo and Isabel Mejia
count receipts from their store -- Fantastic Fiesta Supplies & More. Story on
Page 6B.
[970710 LO 1B PE 3]
PHOTO: LUCI S. WILLIAMS -- MERCURY NEWS
Teresa Lopez helps a young customer decide on his purchase.
[970710 LO 6B PE 1]
PHOTO: LUCI S. WILLIAMS -- MERCURY NEWS
Ivette Castillo, left, Victoria Gaytan, Isabel Mejia and Teresa Lopez are four
of the five owners of Fantastic Fiesta Supplies & More, an eastern Menlo Park
party supply business that opened June 28.
[970710 LO 6B PE 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 SEPTEMBER 9, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

YES, AMERICA, DREAMS STILL CAN COME TRUE EX-MIGRANT WORKER SCRIMPS, SAVES TO BE
WOMAN OF PROPERTY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: FULLERTON


Eustolia Favela has dreamed of owning her own home since 1969, when she came to
this country from Mexico as a young migrant worker. She saved her pennies every
summer as she packed tomatoes in the canneries of San Jose and every winter as
she cooked and cleaned for minimum wage in Orange County.

She kept dreaming - and saving - in the run-down, two-bedroom Baker Avenue
apartment she and her husband moved into in 1981, sewing clothes for her seven
children, buying bulk food and shopping in thrift stores.

But the years of backbreaking work and tireless frugality have paid off: With a
down payment of $43,000 saved over 27 years, Favela, 54, recently bought not
only her own home, but her own four-unit apartment building - just a few yards
from the shabby unit she has rented for 15 years.

"This country is for working, not sitting around," said the feisty grandmother
of three in Spanish one recent afternoon, as she swept remodeling debris from
her future home. "I never passed up an opportunity to work. Every year I saved,
sometimes $1,000, sometimes $2,000. I would put that in the bank and not touch
it for anything."

Escrow closed June 28 on the building on West Baker Avenue, for which Favela
paid $184,000.

The Favelas dreamed of owning property in this country, a dream shared by many
immigrants from Latin America and other regions, but a dream many never achieve.
According to census data, about 40 percent of Hispanic households are
owner-occupied, as opposed to about 60 percent for other groups.

Built in the early 1960s, Favela's building is a fixer-upper. So far, Favela has
spent $1,500 patching up one unit for a tenant, filling plaster holes and
replacing rotted drywall. She expects overall repairs to cost at least $8,000.

They will become the only live-in owners on the block; the other 15 four-unit
complexes on the cul-de-sac, one of Fullerton's most blighted areas, are owned
by absentee landlords, many of whom have been cited for building and safety
violations.

Favela's own landlord, La Mirada physician Chunilal Shah, and his wife were sued
by the city in May for repeatedly failing to maintain the five properties they
own on the block.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Eustolia Favela, in front of her new apartment complex in Fullerton, made her
dream come true with years of hard work. She spent summers canning tomatoes in
San Jose and winters cleaning in Orange County.
[960909 CA 3B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 8, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 228 words


Three men pleaded guilty to enslaving migrant workers in South Carolina. Miguel
Angel Flores, Sebastian Gomez and Andres Ixcoy admitted charging undocumented
workers a steep smuggling fee for transporting them from Arizona to South
Carolina and then keeping them in indefinite indentured servitude until they
paid the fee. Sentencing is scheduled for Aug. 25.
* The IBM supercomputer Deep Blue and world chess champion Garry Kasparov fought
to their second consecutive draw in New York City in the fourth game of their
$1.1 million rematch, tied at 2 points after one win each and two draws.
* Deane Stonier, a transportation broker from Jacksonville Beach, Fla., defeated
a record field of 121 players to win $145,200 in first-prize money at the World
Series of Poker in Las Vegas.
* Glen Rogers, a transient carnival worker suspected in serial killings across
the country, was convicted in Tampa, Fla., in the slashing death of Tina Cribbs
in 1995.
* A year after the fiery crash of ValuJet Flight 592, no airline has fulfilled a
promise to install smoke detectors in the cargo holds of the most heavily used
jetliners. National Transportation Safety Board officials criticized the delay
and said airlines are "making excuses" because they don't want to spend the
estimated $200 million it will cost to retrofit more than 3,700 planes.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Rogers
[970508 FR 25A 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 23, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLING VAN CRASHES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: ALPINE


Minutes after the Border Patrol halted its pursuit, a stolen vehicle packed with
about 21 illegal immigrants crashed into a median and burst into flames,
authorities said Wednesday.

The driver of the Chevrolet Suburban was killed instantly, and five passengers
were injured in the Interstate 8 crash, said John Marinez, spokesman for the
California Highway Patrol.

"There's obviously not that many seat belts in a Suburban," said California
Highway Patrol Officer Roy Kramer. "It's amazing that we have just one
fatality."

The male driver lost control about 5:15 a.m. and burned to death, Marinez said.
The other occupants, all Mexican, got out before the vehicle was engulfed in
flames, he said.

Five people were taken to hospitals with minor to moderate injuries, and the
Border Patrol detained nine other individuals. Several darted from the scene
before authorities could apprehend them.

The Border Patrol notified the CHP at 5:07 a.m. that it was discontinuing its
pursuit of a stolen Suburban "filled with apparent undocumented aliens," CHP
Officer Tom Christian said.

The Border Patrol notification was only an advisory, and CHP intervention wasn't
requested, he said. Eight minutes later, a driver called a dispatcher to report
the crash.

The crash occurred about 20 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico border. I-8 is a
common route for smugglers.

The 1986 Suburban was originally reported stolen Sunday from the coastal town of
Carlsbad.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Investigators examine the Suburban that crashed 20 miles north of the Mexico
border; the driver died.
[970123 CA 5B]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 5, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ADVOCATES OF PRENATAL CARE FOR POOR PREPARE THEIR PITCH

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Health care providers in East Los Angeles have a last chance to convince Gov.
Pete Wilson that cutting off prenatal care to illegal immigrants is bad policy.

They'll go for the pocketbook at a public meeting today, telling state officials
that retaining the aid will save money in the long run, activists said Tuesday.

"The cost to the state as a whole of having to deal with at-risk births - those
costs are astronomical and often extend over a person's life," said Arnold S.
Torres, policy consultant for the Community Health Foundation of East Los
Angeles Inc.

A premature birth can cost health care providers $100,000, and a birth defect
can cost $100,000 and more each year to treat, he said.

"Every study we see, when prenatal care is done right, it has reduced those
types of cases," Torres said.

Dr. Galal Gough, who treats pregnant illegal immigrants at the foundation, said
gestational diabetes is an example of a condition that, if caught and treated
early, can save the state money on future medical bills.

The foundation, which treats about 1,400 pregnant illegal immigrants a year,
successfully sued to block Wilson from halting the prenatal care last year.

Such care was one of many benefits put on the chopping block when President
Clinton signed a new federal welfare law in August. But a Superior Court judge
ruled in November that the governor must hold public hearings before heeding the
federal order to eliminate the benefit.

A second hearing was scheduled in Sacramento for Feb. 19.

California currently spends $69 million a year to provide the service to 70,000
women - a price tag that Wilson says the state can't afford.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 231 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 26, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON DETAILS WELFARE-CUT PLANS HE'LL ASK THAT SOME BENEFITS FOR ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS BE CONTINUED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Pete Wilson plans to bar illegal immigrants from more than 200 state
programs and services, but will ask the Legislature to continue benefits in nine
limited areas, top aides said Tuesday.

Some of the bigger programs to be cut off for illegal immigrants, in order to
implement the federal welfare overhaul enacted last year, include unemployment
and disability benefits, student financial aid, alcohol and drug treatment and
housing assistance.

But many of the programs Wilson is putting off-limits currently serve few if any
illegal immigrants, such as California Arts Council grants or licenses to be
real estate appraisers.

California has an estimated 2 million illegal immigrants, officials said
Tuesday.

New screening procedures will identify and exclude illegal immigrants from
licensing programs that cover 2.1 million people in occupations ranging from
pilots of pest-control planes to barbers, dentists and doctors.

Illegal immigrants will also be barred from 87 health programs, ranging from
drug abuse to dog food for guide dogs for the blind.

The nine exceptions Wilson will seek must be approved by the Legislature. They
are all narrowly focused and based on health or humanitarian grounds, said
Wilson spokesman Sean Walsh.

They would continue rape counseling, child protective services, immunizations,
assistance for victims of violent crimes and in-home or nursing home care for a
limited number of aged or severely disabled illegal immigrants.

"These programs (to be continued) are for humanitarian purposes, but they do not
come cheaply," Walsh said, citing an estimated $10.9 million annual cost to
continue long-term nursing home care for about 200 aged or severely disabled
illegal immigrants.

Welfare rights advocates did not return telephone calls seeking comment Tuesday.

Senate President Pro Tem Bill Lockyer, D-Hayward, said he would work with the
governor to ensure public health and safety are preserved.

Karen Strickland, Wilson's deputy Cabinet secretary, said no benefits would be
cut off immediately, and acknowledged it could be more than a year before most
cuts begin.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
