
                               1 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 9, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH PLAN MAY HELP DRIVE FOR IMMIGRANT LICENSES;
NEW BILL FOR UNDOCUMENTED DRIVERS EXPECTED TO BE INTRODUCED THIS MONTH

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 656 words


Proposed legislation that would allow undocumented immigrants to obtain driver's
licenses in California may have received an unexpected political boost this week
when President Bush announced a sweeping plan for immigration reform.

In the Bay Area and across the state, supporters of the driver's license effort
believe that the president's plan will help their campaign to get a new bill
introduced in California.

"He didn't talk about undocumented immigrants as threats to our public safety.
He talked at length about bringing these people out of the shadows," Francisco
Estrada, policy director in Sacramento for the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Education Fund, said of the president's remarks Wednesday. "If the
administration is going to set that tone for the debate on immigration reform,
then I'm hopeful that same tone will be brought forward into California's debate
on driver's licenses."

At the urging of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, the state Legislature last month
repealed a landmark driver's license bill, SB 60, signed in September by former
Gov. Gray Davis. Schwarzenegger promised to consider a new bill this year if it
addresses concerns about security.

Sen. Gilbert Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, said his plan to introduce a new version of
the driver's license bill is on track to be introduced this month.

"It's very helpful for the president to go out there and acknowledge the
contribution of immigrants," said Cedillo, who for the last five years has
pushed for legislation that would allow undocumented immigrants in the state to
drive legally.

Cedillo said he spoke on Wednesday morning with Schwarzenegger, before Bush
announced his proposal, to talk about how possible federal legislation would
affect a state license bill. The governor, he said, agreed to move forward with
state legislation. The governor's office did not return several calls Thursday.

Although details of the new bill are still being written, Cedillo said he saw no
conflict with what the president proposed.

"The federal proposal is more an explicit immigration policy. The California
proposal is about highway safety," Cedillo said. "It's consistent with the
president's directions: That we recognize that immigrants are here, they work
and they drive."

Bush's plan calls for the creation of a "temporary worker program" that would
allow undocumented immigrants already employed in the United States and foreign
workers abroad who have jobs lined up to receive temporary work permits for at
least three years.

Undocumented workers who participate in the program would be allowed to obtain
Social Security cards and driver's licenses. Those who sign up are expected to
return to their home countries when their permits expire.

Even if Bush is able to push his plan through Congress, a state license bill
would address the needs of all undocumented immigrants, including those who
wouldn't qualify for a license under the national program.

"We don't know what's going to happen with the Bush proposal, so it makes sense
to continue on track with the new legislation," said Cary Sanders, policy
director for Services, Immigrant Rights, Education Network, a non-profit
immigrant advocacy and service agency in San Jose.

Martha Campos, coordinator of a San Jose immigrant leadership training program,
said she is concerned Bush's plan excludes day laborers and the spouses of other
undocumented immigrants who don't have steady employers.

"We're still fighting for a driver's license bill in California that includes
everyone," Campos said.

Opponents of the driver's license legislation, however, said they are prepared
to campaign against Cedillo's new effort.

"Californians have said loud and clear they don't want illegal aliens to have
driver's licenses," said Rick Oltman, western field director for the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, a national group that campaigned to repeal SB
60.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 26, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S MUST ACKNOWLEDGE REALITY: IT NEEDS IMMIGRANT LABORERS;
TRUE REFORM WILL RESPECT THE RIGHTS OF THOSE WHO DO THE WORK

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 4P

LENGTH: 399 words


What will true immigration reform look like? It will acknowledge America's need
for unskilled immigrant labor while respecting the rights of those who perform
it, including undocumented workers.

President Bush's handshake in Bangkok with Mexican President Vicente Fox last
week offers hope that Bush may now be ready to move ahead with reform.
Bipartisan legislation now before Congress represents the first step to
implementing it.

That legislation would provide labor protections and a path to residency for a
half-million undocumented farm workers already living in America, many in the
Central Valley. They've been the priority, although it's taken years for growers
and the farm workers' union to reach a deal.

Under the bill, co-sponsored by unlikely allies -- Sens. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass.,
and Larry Craig, R-Idaho -- laborers who can prove they've worked the fields
during the past 18 months will be given temporary legal status. If they work an
additional 360 days over the next six years, they'll be eligible for permanent
residency. They'll be able to travel across the border and work jobs legally in
the interim. Their families would continue to live in America.

The law would be more restrictive for new guest workers, although far better
than the exploitive bracero program of the past. Immigrant workers would get a
maximum three-year work permit.

Growers will get a steady workforce. In return, they'll have to pay the
prevailing wage, and, if they aren't covered by a union contract, provide
housing and other benefits. It's a fair bargain and a system that identifies
who's working here will make the nation's borders more secure.

But the Kennedy-Craig bill won't cover the other 8 million illegal immigrants
and their families who are washing dishes, mowing lawns and working in
slaughterhouses. They too deserve fair treatment.

Kennedy has been drafting a bill with Sen. Chuck Hegel, a Nebraska Republican,
around the idea of awarding residency to non-agricultural workers who can show
they've worked for five years, paid taxes, committed no crimes and are learning
English -- tighter requirements than the amnesty of 1986. But creating a
temporary visa program for manufacturers and service industries faces daunting
challenges.

A farm-worker reform would break the stalemate over immigration. In an election
year, that would be a major breakthrough.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 8, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION PLAN COULD BOOST STATE;
STEADY, LEGAL POOL OF FARM, SERVICE WORKERS POSSIBLE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND MARGARET STEEN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 879 words


A sweeping plan for immigration reform unveiled Wednesday by President Bush
could have powerful economic and social implications in California, home to
almost half of the nation's undocumented immigrants, according to employers and
economists.

Bush's proposal to grant legal status to undocumented workers for three years,
with the chance for renewal, could amount to the most significant change to U.S.
immigration policy since 1986, when Congress offered amnesty to some 2.7 million
undocumented immigrants.

In California, the so-called "temporary worker program" would mean the state's
large agribusiness and service industries that rely heavily on Mexican labor
would have a steady, legal pool of workers to harvest crops and help keep
restaurants and hotels running smoothly.

And it would give those living here illegally a level of stability by allowing
them to get Social Security cards and driver's licenses.

"If you do enforce it, really enforce it, you will get higher wages;you'll get
much higher tax revenues; and you should get significantly lower growth in
service demand," said Richard Carlson, an economist and partner at Spectrum
Economics in Mountain View, referring to the money that states such as
California spend on education and health care services for the children of
illegal immigrants. "If it's easy for Dad to get back and forth, Mom and the
kids will stay" in Mexico.

Under the plan, as many as 8 million undocumented workers could become legal by
qualifying for a temporary work permit. Those who currently live abroad would be
able to enter the country legally by showing they have a job waiting for them.
The permits would be renewable but when they expire, the workers would be
expected to return home.

Declaring the current system a failure, Bush said his plan recognizes reality
and lets illegal workers come into the open.

"Workers who seek only to earn a living end up in the shadows of American life
-- fearful, often abused and exploited," Bush said. "It is not the American way.
Out of common sense and fairness, our laws should allow willing workers to enter
our country and fill jobs that Americans are not filling."

The proposal also addresses the country's security concerns, Bush said, because
the new system would allow the United States to keep better track of who's
living in the country.

The long-awaited plan, however, was widely criticized by supporters and
opponents of tighter immigration laws. Both sides agreed the proposal is not
sweeping enough.

"It's a step in the right direction, but this is not a solution," said Salvador
Bustamante, regional vice president for the Service Employees International
Union Local 1877 in San Jose. "It's a political proposal and a shameful attempt
by the president to court the Latino vote."

California labor unions such as the SEIU lobbied the Bush administration for a
more generous program, one that includes a clear path to obtaining a green card,
or permanent residency.

Tens of thousands of undocumented workers who don't have steady employment --
such as contract day laborers -- are not likely to benefit from the reform
package because they don't have regular employers who can vouch for them, said
Cary Sanders, policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education
Network, a San Jose immigrant advocacy and service organization.

Raul Cabrera, 49, an undocumented immigrant from Puebla, Mexico, said he was
hopeful that Bush would offer a proposal that permanently solves his dilemma in
the United States, but he is uncertain how the changes will affect him.

"I think it's a little step, but it's not good because you're still temporary,"
Cabrera, of San Jose, said Tuesday. "This kind of legalization is not good for
immigrants because you're not giving anything more. Just work and go back to
your own country."

Cabrera, who arrived in the United States about six years ago, has worked as a
janitor, parking attendant, dishwasher and gardener. Like most undocumented
workers, Cabrera said he used a phony Social Security card to apply for jobs.

He is worried about how the new program will be implemented.

"I have many fears, many doubts about the requirements to become legal here,"
Cabrera said.

Ultimately, the proposal's effect will depend on the details -- and how strictly
it is enforced, said Carlson, the economist from Mountain View. If employers
don't risk much by not complying, he said, the new system might not have much
impact: It still would be cheaper for employers to pay workers illegally, thus
avoiding paying taxes and meeting minimum-wage requirements.

California's farm bureau and other business groups made it clear that they don't
like the current system.

"Farmers are kind of in an impossible situation: They are required by law to be
the policeman, the immigration official, the security expert, while
simultaneously getting crops harvested before they spoil," said Bob Krauter,
spokesman for the California Farm Bureau Federation. "The types of solutions
that the president is talking about, we welcome. Farmers want a reliable, stable
and legal workforce."

CHART: KNIGHT RIDDER
The undocumented
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PROGRAM DETAILS
Under the program Bush unveiled Wednesday, undocumented workers living in the
United States could:
* Apply for a three-year, renewable work permit
* Obtain driver's licenses and Social Security cards
* Move freely between the United States and their home countries
More details, PAGE 6A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Chart;
PHOTO: JUDITH CALSON -- MERCURY NEWS
Raul Cabrera, from Puebla, Mexico, says he is worried about the program and
requirements for becoming legal in the United States.
PHOTO: JUDITH CALSON -- MERCURY NEWS
Raul Cabrera of San Jose, who is undocumented, called the plan "a little step."

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 8, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH CRACKS THE IMMIGRATION DOOR;
GUEST WORKER VISAS WOULD IMPROVE THE LIVES OF MILLIONS OF UNDOCUMENTED FAMILIES

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 427 words


President Bush advanced the hope for immigration reform Wednesday, raising an
issue that had been dormant since Sept. 11.

His proposal for guest worker visas for immigrants living illegally in America
falls shy of a broad amnesty, which he continues to oppose. But his plan would
improve life for millions of undocumented families by granting them basic worker
protections, such as the right to earn the minimum wage and to travel back and
forth to their native lands. For at least some, it would provide an opportunity
for permanent residency and citizenship.

Exactly how many guest workers would qualify for permanent status is the big
question. It will quickly become the point of contention. There are between 8
million and 14 million illegal immigrants, and currently only 140,000 green
cards issued each year. Families with no hope of citizenship, facing deportation
when their temporary visas expire, would likely choose to continue living in
America's shadows.

The administration won't be pinned down at this point, saying only that it
favors a "reasonable increase." It will be up to Congress to come up with a
number -- and fill in other key details that Bush omitted. But it's the details
-- What happens to workers who are laid off? Can workers' children move here,
too? How will the government enforce the law? -- that will determine whether the
plan rises or falls.

Bush is proposing a three-year work permit renewable for an unspecified number
of times, but not indefinitely. Both foreigners and illegal immigrants would be
eligible. An employer would have to sponsor a worker, at least initially, and
establish that it's for a job -- on farms, in restaurants and factories -- that
American citizens don't want.

Much to Gov. Schwarzenegger's pleasure, the plan also could end the stalemate
over whether to award drivers' licenses to undocumented workers. Since guest
workers would receive Social Security numbers, they'd qualify to drive under
existing California law. If Bush's plan works like other work visa programs,
there would be a criminal background check -- something that was missing from
the licensing law the Legislature passed and then, at Schwarzenegger's
insistence, repealed.

Bush offered his proposal in advance of his re-election campaign, and a
rendezvous next week with Mexican President Vicente Fox. But if he hopes to
score points with Latino voters, the president will have to work hard for its
passage -- and bring the anti-immigration wing of his party along.

Wednesday's speech was a promising step.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 8, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION PLAN COULD BOOST STATE;
STEADY, LEGAL POOL OF FARM, SERVICE WORKERS POSSIBLE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND MARGARET STEEN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 879 words


A sweeping plan for immigration reform unveiled Wednesday by President Bush
could have powerful economic and social implications in California, home to
almost half of the nation's undocumented immigrants, according to employers and
economists.

Bush's proposal to grant legal status to undocumented workers for three years,
with the chance for renewal, could amount to the most significant change to U.S.
immigration policy since 1986, when Congress offered amnesty to some 2.7 million
undocumented immigrants.

In California, the so-called "temporary worker program" would mean the state's
large agribusiness and service industries that rely heavily on Mexican labor
would have a steady, legal pool of workers to harvest crops and help keep
restaurants and hotels running smoothly.

And it would give those living here illegally a level of stability by allowing
them to get Social Security cards and driver's licenses.

"If you do enforce it, really enforce it, you will get higher wages;you'll get
much higher tax revenues; and you should get significantly lower growth in
service demand," said Richard Carlson, an economist and partner at Spectrum
Economics in Mountain View, referring to the money that states such as
California spend on education and health care services for the children of
illegal immigrants. "If it's easy for Dad to get back and forth, Mom and the
kids will stay" in Mexico.

Under the plan, as many as 8 million undocumented workers could become legal by
qualifying for a temporary work permit. Those who currently live abroad would be
able to enter the country legally by showing they have a job waiting for them.
The permits would be renewable but when they expire, the workers would be
expected to return home.

Declaring the current system a failure, Bush said his plan recognizes reality
and lets illegal workers come into the open.

"Workers who seek only to earn a living end up in the shadows of American life
-- fearful, often abused and exploited," Bush said. "It is not the American way.
Out of common sense and fairness, our laws should allow willing workers to enter
our country and fill jobs that Americans are not filling."

The proposal also addresses the country's security concerns, Bush said, because
the new system would allow the United States to keep better track of who's
living in the country.

The long-awaited plan, however, was widely criticized by supporters and
opponents of tighter immigration laws. Both sides agreed the proposal is not
sweeping enough.

"It's a step in the right direction, but this is not a solution," said Salvador
Bustamante, regional vice president for the Service Employees International
Union Local 1877 in San Jose. "It's a political proposal and a shameful attempt
by the president to court the Latino vote."

California labor unions such as the SEIU lobbied the Bush administration for a
more generous program, one that includes a clear path to obtaining a green card,
or permanent residency.

Tens of thousands of undocumented workers who don't have steady employment --
such as contract day laborers -- are not likely to benefit from the reform
package because they don't have regular employers who can vouch for them, said
Cary Sanders, policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education
Network, a San Jose immigrant advocacy and service organization.

Raul Cabrera, 49, an undocumented immigrant from Puebla, Mexico, said he was
hopeful that Bush would offer a proposal that permanently solves his dilemma in
the United States, but he is uncertain how the changes will affect him.

"I think it's a little step, but it's not good because you're still temporary,"
Cabrera, of San Jose, said Tuesday. "This kind of legalization is not good for
immigrants because you're not giving anything more. Just work and go back to
your own country."

Cabrera, who arrived in the United States about six years ago, has worked as a
janitor, parking attendant, dishwasher and gardener. Like most undocumented
workers, Cabrera said he used a phony Social Security card to apply for jobs.

He is worried about how the new program will be implemented.

"I have many fears, many doubts about the requirements to become legal here,"
Cabrera said.

Ultimately, the proposal's effect will depend on the details -- and how strictly
it is enforced, said Carlson, the economist from Mountain View. If employers
don't risk much by not complying, he said, the new system might not have much
impact: It still would be cheaper for employers to pay workers illegally, thus
avoiding paying taxes and meeting minimum-wage requirements.

California's farm bureau and other business groups made it clear that they don't
like the current system.

"Farmers are kind of in an impossible situation: They are required by law to be
the policeman, the immigration official, the security expert, while
simultaneously getting crops harvested before they spoil," said Bob Krauter,
spokesman for the California Farm Bureau Federation. "The types of solutions
that the president is talking about, we welcome. Farmers want a reliable, stable
and legal workforce."

CHART: KNIGHT RIDDER
The undocumented
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PROGRAM DETAILS
Under the program Bush unveiled Wednesday, undocumented workers living in the
United States could:
* Apply for a three-year, renewable work permit
* Obtain driver's licenses and Social Security cards
* Move freely between the United States and their home countries
More details, PAGE 6A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Chart;
PHOTO: JUDITH CALSON -- MERCURY NEWS
Raul Cabrera, from Puebla, Mexico, says he is worried about the program and
requirements for becoming legal in the United States.
PHOTO: JUDITH CALSON -- MERCURY NEWS
Raul Cabrera of San Jose, who is undocumented, called the plan "a little step."

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 11, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CRITICS POINT OUT PAST FAILINGS OF PLANS FOR IMMIGRATION AMNESTY

BYLINE: DEBORAH KONG, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 797 words


As critics begin scrutinizing President Bush's proposal to grant legal status to
millions of undocumented workers, some are worried that the administration will
fail to learn from two previous experiments, one during World War II and the
other in 1986.

Bush's plan is a modern-day rewrite of the World War II guest-worker program
that "tore families apart and stripped laborers of their earnings and their
future," the Congressional Hispanic Caucus said after the president proposed his
idea Wednesday.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, an advocate of stricter immigration enforcement, accused Bush
of "totally ignoring the nation's experience with the ill-fated 1986 amnesty
program," which granted legal status to almost 3 million illegal immigrants.

That program "only encouraged a new wave of illegal immigration," said Tancredo,
R-Colo.

Bush's plan would create a temporary-worker program for undocumented immigrants
already in the United States and for people in other countries who have been
offered employment here. Migrants would be able to obtain renewable three-year
labor visas, but Bush said they would not receive special consideration for
permanent residence or citizenship.

Immigration experts and critics on both sides of the political spectrum caution
that policy-makers should heed some of the past programs' failings by building
in strong worker protections and enforcing the law when it comes to employers
who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

The braceros program -- named after brazo, the Spanish word for arm -- wasthe
first of the two earlier efforts. Under an agreement between the United States
and Mexico, as many as 5 million temporary workers crossed the border to fill a
labor shortage caused by the second world war, said Oscar Martinez, a history
professor at the University of Arizona.

But the braceros, who worked mostly in agriculture, didn't have many of the same
rights as Americans. "Braceros were at the mercy of the employers," Martinez
said. "There was limited government oversight and there were lots of abuses."

Many workers lived in overcrowded camps, and were denied medical assistance and
the right to organize, advocates say.

Some braceros are still engaged in a legal battle with the U.S. and Mexican
governments, seeking money that was set aside in savings funds to be paid to
them once they returned to Mexico.

Rep. Ciro Rodriguez, chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said lawmakers
should remember what happened. "If you want to establish any kind of
guest-worker program, we've got to make sure that we treat people with dignity,"
by ensuring "they be given the same wages, the same benefits that anyone else
would get doing the same kind of work."

Bush said in his proposal that temporary workers should enjoy the same rights as
American workers.

The braceros program had another consequence, some say: encouraging illegal
immigration. The number of people caught entering the country illegally
increased tenfold from 1964, when the braceros program ended, to 1976, according
to a recent report by the National Foundation for American Policy.

It "made many sectors of the Mexican population familiar with the whole process
of coming to the United States to work, and going back and forth," said Frank
Bean, a demographer at the University of California-Irvine.

"Any time you have a guest-worker program of one kind or another, you end up
with permanent migration."

Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, approved during President
Reagan's second term, undocumented immigrants who could prove they had been in
the country since before 1982 were allowed to apply for legal permanent
residence. By 2001, a third of them had become citizens, according to INS
statistics.

One of them was Cynthia Alvarez, who was 8 when she and her family slipped
across the border from Mexico.

Being undocumented "was like having a very, very short ceiling, walking around
feeling that you couldn't think about the future," Alvarez said. Now 32, she is
pursuing a doctorate in political science at Stanford University and working in
finance.

"The '86 program was a good idea," she said. "I contribute to this country
plenty, and I am certainly not the exception."

The 1986 program also increased Mexican migration to the United States, as those
who were legalized brought their families. And it created networks that made it
easier for others to come, said Michael Fix, director of the Urban Institute's
immigration-studies program.

But Tancredo said illegal immigration also increased.

Many people agree that the 1986 law failed in one respect: the lack of
enforcement of a provision requiring employers to check workers' documents and
penalizing those who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: BEN MARGOT -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Cynthia Alvarez, a doctoral student at Stanford University, was a Mexican
immigrant who won legal residency under the '86 amnesty.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 13, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A FALSE IMMIGRATION FIX: BUSH DREDGES UP BRACEROS

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 656 words


It was so much easier the last time we "fixed" illegal immigration.

Remember 1986? Nobody listened much to the flat-earth right-wingers at the time
who wanted to deport every illegal immigrant simply because they were here
illegally, not even Ronald Reagan. Dutch happily granted amnesty to about 3
million undocumented souls. Problem solved.

Today, conservative hard-liners like House majority leader Tom DeLay are running
the show. Forget about another amnesty. They're already having President George
W. Bush's mild, temporary guest-worker proposal for lunch.

We need to remember three things about the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control
Act before pushing Bush's proposal one way or the other.

First, even with moderate pragmatists negotiating for the Republicans and
Democrats, it took several years to pass.

Second, the illegal immigrants who qualified for amnesty turned out to have held
jobs and rarely used government assistance.

And finally, the 1986 immigration law didn't fix illegal immigration, partly
because nobody bothered to enforce the new sanctions against employers who hire
and exploit illegal immigrants.

Three million or more illegal immigrants have arrived since the last immigration
reform, and prospects are dim that any free-market loving Republican would stop
an employer from hiring the cheapest labor available -- so let's forget about
another amnesty.

Instead, let's take a hard look at Bush's guest-worker scheme. It reminds me of
the Mexican bracero program of 1950s, another false immigration fix.

The problem was that the braceros, mostly farmworkers, simply went underground
or returned to the United States illegally after their work permits had expired.
And why not? Mexico had not suddenly created new jobs for them and their
"temporary" jobs in the United States were still there.

Does anyone really believe that Bush's modern-day braceros in fast-food,
landscaping or the nanny business would return happily to Mexico and stay there
after their visas expired in three or even six years?

Right about now I can hear the hard-line argument for a militarized border,
computerized visa tracking and swift deportations of guest-workers who overstay
their visas by even one day. The problem is, we've tried quickie deportations
before.

In 1930, President Hoover started a "repatriation" program that attempted to
round up Mexican illegal immigrants. It resulted in the zealous, mass arrests
and deportations of hundreds of thousands of legal Mexican residents and
Mexican-Americans.

Only now is this buried history coming to light, through a recent lawsuit filed
in California on behalf of surviving deportees and a 1995 book, "Decade of
Betrayal" by scholars Francisco Balderrama and Raymond Rodriguez.

If conservatives will never allow another amnesty or enforce employer sanctions,
then liberals would never stomach mass deportations. So what's the solution to
illegal immigration?

There isn't a quick fix, but here's a thought for the long term: Why not include
the free movement of workers across borders in the North American Free Trade
Agreement? If NAFTA relaxed the restrictions and tariffs on capital and goods
between the United States, Mexico and Canada, it can do the same for labor.
After all, workers seek opportunity just as naturally as investors do. The
difference is that workers have to actually move from one place to another.

Right now the greatest labor need we have is for menial work. Mexico has the
workers, so let them come and do the job for as long as it takes and without
arbitrary visa deadlines. In the long term, Mexico's economy should develop to a
point where its people won't have to leave simply to survive.

Sure, it's a rough and idealistic plan that would require lots of economic
investment in Mexico and social patience in the United States. But it sure beats
our solution the last time we fixed illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 13, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A FALSE IMMIGRATION FIX: BUSH DREDGES UP BRACEROS

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 656 words


It was so much easier the last time we "fixed" illegal immigration.

Remember 1986? Nobody listened much to the flat-earth right-wingers at the time
who wanted to deport every illegal immigrant simply because they were here
illegally, not even Ronald Reagan. Dutch happily granted amnesty to about 3
million undocumented souls. Problem solved.

Today, conservative hard-liners like House majority leader Tom DeLay are running
the show. Forget about another amnesty. They're already having President George
W. Bush's mild, temporary guest-worker proposal for lunch.

We need to remember three things about the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control
Act before pushing Bush's proposal one way or the other.

First, even with moderate pragmatists negotiating for the Republicans and
Democrats, it took several years to pass.

Second, the illegal immigrants who qualified for amnesty turned out to have held
jobs and rarely used government assistance.

And finally, the 1986 immigration law didn't fix illegal immigration, partly
because nobody bothered to enforce the new sanctions against employers who hire
and exploit illegal immigrants.

Three million or more illegal immigrants have arrived since the last immigration
reform, and prospects are dim that any free-market loving Republican would stop
an employer from hiring the cheapest labor available -- so let's forget about
another amnesty.

Instead, let's take a hard look at Bush's guest-worker scheme. It reminds me of
the Mexican bracero program of 1950s, another false immigration fix.

The problem was that the braceros, mostly farmworkers, simply went underground
or returned to the United States illegally after their work permits had expired.
And why not? Mexico had not suddenly created new jobs for them and their
"temporary" jobs in the United States were still there.

Does anyone really believe that Bush's modern-day braceros in fast-food,
landscaping or the nanny business would return happily to Mexico and stay there
after their visas expired in three or even six years?

Right about now I can hear the hard-line argument for a militarized border,
computerized visa tracking and swift deportations of guest-workers who overstay
their visas by even one day. The problem is, we've tried quickie deportations
before.

In 1930, President Hoover started a "repatriation" program that attempted to
round up Mexican illegal immigrants. It resulted in the zealous, mass arrests
and deportations of hundreds of thousands of legal Mexican residents and
Mexican-Americans.

Only now is this buried history coming to light, through a recent lawsuit filed
in California on behalf of surviving deportees and a 1995 book, "Decade of
Betrayal" by scholars Francisco Balderrama and Raymond Rodriguez.

If conservatives will never allow another amnesty or enforce employer sanctions,
then liberals would never stomach mass deportations. So what's the solution to
illegal immigration?

There isn't a quick fix, but here's a thought for the long term: Why not include
the free movement of workers across borders in the North American Free Trade
Agreement? If NAFTA relaxed the restrictions and tariffs on capital and goods
between the United States, Mexico and Canada, it can do the same for labor.
After all, workers seek opportunity just as naturally as investors do. The
difference is that workers have to actually move from one place to another.

Right now the greatest labor need we have is for menial work. Mexico has the
workers, so let them come and do the job for as long as it takes and without
arbitrary visa deadlines. In the long term, Mexico's economy should develop to a
point where its people won't have to leave simply to survive.

Sure, it's a rough and idealistic plan that would require lots of economic
investment in Mexico and social patience in the United States. But it sure beats
our solution the last time we fixed illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 29, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FARMWORKER COMPROMISE DESERVES OK;
WITHOUT ILLEGAL WORKERS CROSSING BORDER FROM MEXICO, AMERICA'S CROPS WOULD ROT

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 371 words


Comprehensive immigration reform is down for now, tripped up by election year
politics and the refusal of the Bush administration to translate concepts into
legislative specifics.

Life still breathes, however, in one piece of reform -- an excellent compromise
dealing with farmworkers. But it could use help from the president to shove it
past legislative bottlenecks and to encourage key Republicans, like Rep. Richard
Pombo, whose district includes Morgan Hill, to support the bill.

The bill, sponsored by Sens. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and Ted Kennedy, D-Mass.,
would grant protections and legalized status to immigrant agricultural workers,
while giving growers what they want: a predictable, steady supply of help.
That's why the Agricultural Job Opportunity Benefits and Security Act has the
backing of business and labor, Latino activists and a bipartisan group of
congressional liberals and conservatives.

America's crops and fruit would rot, were it not for illegal immigrants, who
make up most of the nation's agricultural workers. They and their families live
in the shadows, vulnerable to predatory coyotes who shuttle them across the
border and contractors who put them to work.

President Bush has proposed granting them renewable, three-year workpermits. The
Kennedy-Craig bill would go further, by offering the estimated half-million
undocumented farmworkers now in the country the opportunity for permanent
residency -- a green card -- if they continued to work regularly on farms over
the next three to six years. Their families could move here, with conditions;
they could travel freely to Mexico, where most are from.

Future farmworkers wouldn't be eligible for green cards, but they would be
guaranteed decent housing, prevailing wages and other rights under a revised
H-2A temporary visa program.

The bill would not create an amnesty for undocumented workers; it would not be a
magnet for more illegal immigrants. However, it would provide rights and
safeguards to the nation's most exploited workers and perhaps serve as a model
for resolving remaining issues affecting 8 million, non-agricultural
undocumented workers.

A nod from Bush would move the bill along and keep reform alive.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              July 12, 2004 Monday

Roads would be safer if everyone were licensed

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 414 words


THE argument that letting illegal immigrants apply for driver's licenses would
essentially validate their presence here obviously resonates with many
Californians, who have indicated in polls they don't like the idea. They rightly
note a driver's license is a privilege, not a right.

But many may not remember that until the Legislature passed a bill in 1993
requiring applicants for a driver's license to demonstrate proof of legal
presence, illegal immigrants had been driving legally for decades.

And the reality is that millions of illegal immigrants already live and work in
California. An estimated 2.4 million of them drive and will continue to do so
regardless of whether they have a license or not, notes state Sen. Gilbert
Cedillo, who is championing the latest driver's license bill.

At least if we license illegal immigrants, we would conceivably have a way to
track them when they get in accidents. And if they have a driver's license,
there's a better chance they're insured. State Farm, the largest insurer in
California, says what people need to get auto insurance is a valid driver's
license and three years of experience [of which 18 months in a foreign country
is accepted]. They do not have to have a Social Security number.

Requiring illegal immigrants to undergo the extensive process Cedillo lays out
in his bill to alleviate Gov. Arnold Schwarzenneger's concerns about domestic
security -- background checks, fingerprinting and citizenship classes -- also
might persuade or nudge them toward initiating the green card process.

In other words, the positives of letting them get driver's licenses outweigh the
negatives.

That seems to be borne out in states that do allow illegal immigrants to drive.

In New Mexico, for example, leaders say their roads have gotten more secure
since Gov. Bill Richardson changed the law last June to allow immigrants to
obtain licenses, regardless of their status.

"We see it as being successful across the board," said Kathleen Baca of the
state's tax and revenue division. "It is having an effect in our state, and our
overall numbers of uninsured motorists are decreasing,"

That observation is buttressed by the Insurance Research Council, which found
that of the 11 states where drivers don't have to show proof of legal residence,
all have uninsured driver rates lower than California's.

The ultimate goal is safety, and with licenses for illegals there is a chance
that our roads will be safer.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              11 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              July 12, 2004 Monday

Driving is a privilege

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 383 words


for documented

and legal residents

BEYOND Sacramento's annual budget deadlock looms one of the hottest issues of
2003 -- driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants.

Once again Sen. Gilbert Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, is sponsoring a bill that would
enable illegal immigrants to obtain a California driver's license, making them
more mobile and employable.

Admittedly, such a law might help address problems caused by unlicensed and
uninsured drivers, who often flee accidents and responsibility for their driving
mistakes.

Cedillo, in an attempt to calm Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's concerns about
public safety and security, has even put provisions in SB 1160 that would
require an undocumented immigrant seeking a license to undergo background checks
and fingerprinting, attend citizenship classes and pay $146 to cover costs.
Since they are generally poor, that higher-than-average fee -- along with a fear
of being detected and deported -- could discourage many from running the risk of
getting a license.

But the bill's effectiveness is not our primary reason for opposing it. Our
rationale this year is the same as last year.

Driver's licenses are a privilege. By extending them to illegal immigrants, the
state effectively validates their presence here. It also blurs the line between
illegal and legal residency. Licenses with photographs are a primary means of
identification, opening the door to numerous other privileges and opportunities.

Two wrongs still don't make a right. Letting illegal immigrants have licenses
says that California approves of their presence, and how they got here. That is
the wrong message to send them, legal immigrants and American citizens. It pits
state against federal law, diminishing the meaning and value of both.

Gov. Schwarzenegger should, however, let Cedillo know whether he supports this
year's bill. He convinced the lawmaker to help repeal last year's bill, SB 60,
which Gov. Gray Davis signed before the recall election.

In response, Cedillo says Schwarzenegger agreed to help him advance this year's
effort. Thus far, he's been mum on the bill -- perhaps hoping that it goes away.

It isn't going to. SB 1160 must be passed by Aug. 31 and signed by Sept. 30 to
become law. Schwarzenegger owes Cedillo a response.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              12 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 14, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL MAY HIT A ROADBLOCK;
SECURITY ISSUES SHOULD BE ADDRESSED REGARDLESS OF REFERENDUM

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 4P

LENGTH: 343 words


Proponents of driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants were able to plow
through the Legislature and an embattled governor wooing Latino voters in the
upcoming recall election. They weren't counting on a new obstacle: voters.

The California Republican Assembly, a conservative organization, is vowing to
rescind the law. It will begin gathering signatures to put the issue on the
state ballot in March as a referendum.

The debate could prove as viperous as the fight a decade ago over Proposition
187, which denied social services to immigrants -- and was largely overturned by
the courts. A hint of that came last week when Bob Mulholland, a Democratic
Party spokesman, swapped insults with referendum organizers.

"When Republicans see an opportunity to bash Latinos, they'll take it every
time," Mulholland shouted.

Opposition to the law isn't simply immigrant or Latino bashing. The law's
security flaws trouble many who believe that undocumented workers should have
the right to drive and obtain car insurance. The law would create opportunities
for identity theft and fraud by allowing license applicants to supply an
unverifiable tax identification number, instead of a Social Security number, and
other falsified forms of identification.

Assuming that referendum backers can gather the required voters' signatures,
Sen. Gil Cedillo, the bill's sponsor, could lead an effort in January to amend
the law. He could pursue money for new fingerprint technology that would enable
the Department of Motor Vehicles to catch people who seek more than one license
using different names. Or, better yet, he could write in safety measures, such
as criminal checks for non-citizens seeking a license. Cedillo told the Mercury
News editorial board this week he'd consider changes if they'd ensure wider
support. He ought to do it, regardless.

Some opponents of immigrant rights are cynically hiding behind the security
issues. Amending the law would deny them that cover while fixing problems that
supporters have refused to acknowledge.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 5, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PARTY OPPOSES BENEFITS FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 147 words

DATELINE: SPARKS, NEV.


Nevada's Independent American Party will spearhead a statewide initiative
petition to prevent illegal immigrants from getting state benefits, its leaders
said.

The party has formed Nevadans First, a committee to prepare language for the
initiative that would be similar to California's Proposition 187 and could go
before Nevada voters in 2006.

"We welcome legal immigrants who comply with the legal requirements to become
citizens," said Chris Hansen, chair of Nevadans First. "This initiative is to
discourage illegal aliens from coming to Nevada in search of government benefits
paid for by Nevada taxpayers."

Richard Siegel, a political-science professor at the University of Nevada-Reno,
said the proposal seems similar to California's Proposition 187.

The 1994 initiative, pushed by then-Gov. Pete Wilson, sought to bar most state
services to illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 14, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LICENSE LAW SHOULD BE FIXED, NOT THROWN OUT;
SCHWARZENEGGER IS RIGHT THAT IT'S A SECURITY RISK, BUT THERE ARE SOLUTIONS

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 424 words


During the recall campaign, Arnold Schwarzenegger said he opposed the new law
giving driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants because it could compromise
security.

He's right. That's why he should work with the law's sponsor to fix it or to
find an alternative. That's a more constructive approach than calling on the
Legislature to rescind the law, or, failing that, supporting a voter referendum
to repeal it.

The move for repeal gained momentum with the recall election last week. In a
shameless effort to curry favor with Latinos and union members, Gov. Gray Davis
had signed a seriously flawed bill that he had twice previously vetoed.

The tactic backfired. According to exit polls, nearly half of Latinos and union
members backed the recall.

Repeal supporters have until Dec. 8 to collect 374,000 signatures for the March
ballot. If the referendum qualifies, they'll be able to put the licensing law,
which takes effect Jan. 1, on hold. That would give Schwarzenegger and the
Legislature a couple of months to change the law to include security
protections.

The new law would permit licenses for up to 2 million undocumented immigrants
who supply a taxpayer identification number, which cannot be verified. Identity
thieves and terrorists could exploit this weakness in the system.

California allowed undocumented immigrants to get driver's licenses until 1994,
when the state began requiring all applicants to provide a Social Security
number. They should be able to drive again -- only not at the expense of
security.

One option is to include safeguards in past versions of the bill: limiting
licenses to those immigrants who have applied for residency or citizenship and
requiring them to undergo a background check.

Another possibility is to give undocumented immigrants a provisional license,
which, because it would be distinguishable from a standard license, could not be
used as a universal ID. Democratic Sen. Gil Cedillo, the bill's sponsor, and
immigrants-rights groups oppose the idea, fearing it would lead to profiling and
discrimination. Faced with a referendum, they might reconsider.

But the governor-elect's position at this point is that immigration is, first
and foremost, a federal matter that the Bush administration should deal with.

That's a copout, not a compromise. For three years, the administration has not
faced up to the challenges of illegal immigration, and there is no hint of
movement.

There are solutions to the immigrant licensing issue -- Schwarzenegger willing.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 6, 2003 Saturday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

IMMIGRATION SYSTEM TAKING US FOR A WILD RIDE

BYLINE: LORETTA GREEN column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 487 words


On the matter of illegal immigrants getting driver's licenses, I am having a
hard time getting past one word -- "illegal."

I want to be fair and compassionate, and so I am struggling with this issue. My
first reaction is to ask why we should reward those who break our laws.

I am trying to understand why a person who disregards the law should have a
driver's license equivalent to the one I pull out in the bank or airport or when
writing a check -- the document that says that I am who I say I am.

I am in favor of immigration. America has grown richer because of the
opportunity to share the cultures and traditions of its immigrants. The thing
that made me fall in love with California was its wonderful mix of people, food,
languages, music and heritages.

I do not agree with those who say we should close our borders. And I do not
agree with those who would discourage immigration or who would disrespect any
ethnic or religious group that migrates here.

But I can't help wondering if we are being disrespected through the willful
abuse of our immigration laws.

Falsifying documents, stowing away in boats and trucks or slipping across
Canadian and Mexican borders disrespects America's rules that say immigrants
must ask to enter our house. They must be granted permission before stepping in
the door and sitting down at the table.

Sadly, the horrific events of Sept. 11, 2001, make it all the more imperative
that we know who is entering our country.

It seems to me that state Sen. Gil Cedillo, who is trying to allow undocumented
immigrants to get California licenses, could better use his energy doing
something about a flawed U.S. immigration system that keeps people in hopeless,
interminable queues as they try to navigate the process of entering this country
legally.

I feel concern for the plight of people who are already here -- albeit illegally
-- and who desperately want to work.

Perhaps the compassionate thing to do is to have some kind of amnesty system.
Grant a license to those who are here, but send out the word. Set a date that
says, if you arrive illegally after March 31, 2004, for example, you will not
get a driver's license.

The bottom line is that there is not much right about "illegal" unless, of
course, the law is bad. There have been plenty of examples of bad laws in this
country. But it's hard to see how a law that says you must check in and identify
yourself before you come here to live, use the schools, parks and hospitals --
is all bad.

Many argue that undocumented immigrants are not thumbing their noses at our
laws: They are simply fighting for a better life.

That may be the case, but these are our laws. But it's time for us to ask
ourselves if we really feel good about a system designed so that a poor person
living in another country who has no skills and no one to sponsor him does not
have a prayer of becoming a legal immigrant.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 26, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TEENS PLAN ANTI-GOVERNOR MARCH;
LATINO GROUP'S PROTEST OF LICENSE LAW REPEAL TO STOP IN S.J. MONDAY

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 510 words


A group of Bay Area teenagers has it in for Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Angry
that the movie star-turned-politician abolished a law that would have let
illegal immigrants apply for driver's licenses, the teens are trying to persuade
a million students to join them in a statewide protest against Schwarzenegger --
and anyone else who has opposed licenses for the undocumented.

Latino Focus, a Redwood City-based group of about 50 students, plans to boycott
Schwarzenegger's movies, mount a large-scale voter registrationcampaign and
organize a Million Student March on Cinco de Mayo, or May 5.

Most of the group's members have friends and relatives who don't qualify for
driver's licenses because of their illegal status, so they are determined to
show that Schwarzenegger is "excluding immigrants from something they need to
make their lives better," said Yvette Perez, 15, one of the group's leaders.

A spokeswoman for Schwarzenegger declined to comment on the effort, but
suggested that the governor early next year may consider a new law, more
restrictive than the one he repealed, to allow some illegal immigrants to obtain
licenses.

Members of the Bay Area-wide Latino Focus will promote their cause during a
two-day, statewide bus tour with their first stop at 9 a.m. Monday at San Jose's
Tropicana Shopping Center. The teens will spread their message later in the day
in San Francisco, Oakland and Sacramento, before a final stop the next day at
Olvera Street in Los Angeles, a Mexican theme plaza.

In addition to announcing the march, the youths will denounce a campaign by a
political group known as Save Our State, which seeks to place an initiative on
an upcoming ballot asking voters to ban public services for illegal immigrants,
similar to what Proposition 187 intended to accomplish nine years ago.

While most teenagers would find organizing boycotts, marches and voter
registration campaigns a daunting task, 15-year-old Erica Sandoval says "it's
not that difficult." Her father, Salvador Sandoval, founded Latino Focus 10
years ago to improve a Redwood City neighborhood rife with gunfire. The youths
also are getting tips from the American Civil Liberties Union's Northern
California Web site.

Erica is confident Schwarzenegger will get their point. "We're going to hurt him
in the pocket, we're not going to buy his movies," she said.

Schwarzenegger repealed the license law Dec. 3, less than a month before it was
scheduled to go into effect. The repeal came after the Assembly and Senate voted
to overturn it, and after polls showed that the law, approved by former Gov.
Gray Davis, was unpopular across California.

Schwarzenegger's staff and aides to the law's author, state Sen. Gil Cedillo,
D-Los Angeles, are discussing a more restrictive version of the bill that could
be introduced as early as January.

Schwarzenegger Press Secretary Margita Thompson said both parties "will look
into the issues further" as long as the driver's license applicants can be
screened "for background checks and insurance."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
Students interested in joining the Latino Focus activities should e-mail
Salvador Sandoval at: latinofocus@aol.com. Leaders of the Million Student March
will hold a public meeting at 9 a.m. Monday in San Jose, in the Newberry
building of the Tropicana Shopping Center at Story and King roads.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Schwarzenegger
The Redwood City-based group calls for boycott of governor's movies.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 5, 2004 Wednesday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

LATINO YOUTHS PLAN RALLIES;
DEMONSTRATIONS BACK IMMIGRANT LICENSES

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 366 words


Hundreds of Latino youths are expected to participate in a statewide public
demonstration today organized by Redwood City teenagers who favor a law to
provide driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

While the demonstration will fall short of its original goal of being a "million
student march" to the state Capitol, organizers nonetheless say the event will
be a success by encouraging students to gather in Sacramento and key locations
across California.

"We've put in lots of effort," said 15-year-old Erica Sandoval of Redwood City,
whose father, Salvador Sandoval, is a co-founder of a community group called
Latino Focus. "We've had people calling us and leaving messages non-stop."

Erica and other members of Latino Focus first thought of organizing the march in
December, shortly after they participated in a one-day economic strike that
encouraged Latinos to boycott businesses and schools. That boycott followed Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger's repeal of a law that would have allowed undocumented
immigrants to apply for driver's licenses.

In January, the students delivered more than 30,000 signatures on a petition
urging Schwarzenegger to approve new legislation.

Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, the lead backer of a driver's license bill,
will be one of several legislators expected to address the students at the
Capitol beginning at 1:30 p.m.

"He's very excited about it," said Dan Savage, Cedillo's spokesman. "He has a
general affinity toward young students anyway, and to see them participate in
civic action on behalf of the driver's license bill, when many of them aren't
old enough to vote, is a good thing."

Groups from high schools and colleges are chartering buses to
Sacramento,departing from places such as East San Jose, Oakland, Concord,
Coalinga, Watsonville and Turlock.

Erica, who recently received her learner's driving permit, said she became
interested in raising awareness for the legislation because she knows many
people who lack the legal residency required to obtain a license.

"I have a lot of friends and family members who go to school with me, or work
with my family, and they can't drive or get to places on time," she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 2, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR SLOW TO PUSH IMMIGRANT DRIVERS' RIGHTS;
HIS STANDING WITH VOTERS OUTWEIGHS LATINO BLOC

BYLINE: ANDREW LAMAR, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 544 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Latino lawmakers vilified Gov. Pete Wilson for cutting off public services to
illegal immigrants and bullied Gov. Gray Davis into granting them driver's
licenses, a move that helped end his political career.

But the Legislature's fastest-growing political bloc appears stymied by Arnold
Schwarzenegger. The popular Republican governor forced lawmakers to rescind the
driver's license bill and didn't flinch last week when some Latino legislators
threatened to block the state budget if he didn't compromise on a new bill.

Tuesday, when Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, unveiled a revised version, the
administration quickly signaled its disapproval. It falls short because
applicants' identities cannot be guaranteed by some of the foreign documents
allowed in applications, said Margita Thompson, the governor's presssecretary.

Schwarzenegger, a legal immigrant who made much of his rags-to-riches story
during last year's recall campaign, can ignore the Cedillo plan without
suffering fallout, said Jaime Regalado, director of the Pat Brown Institute of
Public Affairs at California State University-Los Angeles.

"He knows his standing is very, very firm with voters across the board,
including Latinos," Regalado said.

Voters didn't like it last year when Davis signed Cedillo's measure that would
have allowed illegal immigrants to apply for and receive California licenses,
provided they furnish the state with thumbprints or fingerprints.

Schwarzenegger's opposition helped fuel his popularity.

But from the day Schwarzenegger won repeal of the Davis-signed measure -- Dec.
1, 2003 -- he has vowed to develop follow-up legislation that would accomplish
the same goal with added provisions to protect public safety.

The question is whether that means the governor will deliver a bill or is just
committed to considering one.

For many Latino lawmakers, such as Sen. Martha Escutia, D-Norwalk, it's an
emotional issue that goes to the heart of the immigrant communities they serve.

"For many . . . it's just survival," Escutia said. Immigrants are forced to
spend hours taking buses to where they need to go or risk court fines of up to
$1,000 if they are caught driving without a license, she said. "It's a very hard
life."

In his bid to resurrect the measure, Cedillo has found voters to be more
supportive as long as they believe security isn't being compromised and
immigrants are working toward citizenship, he said. He points to similar laws in
11 other states.

However, Cedillo's bill, SB 1160, faces major opposition. Still a topic on talk
radio, driver's licenses for illegal immigrants is heavily opposed by
Republicans.

Analysts such as Regalado and Dan Schnur, a Republican who worked for former
Gov. Pete Wilson, believe that the governor will move slowly, if at all.

"This was one of the issues that helped drive Gray Davis from office," Schnur
said. "It's very smart for him to deal with it as carefully and deliberately as
possible."

Darry Sragrow, who advises Assembly Democrats and assisted the governor on the
$15 billion bond voters approved in March, said he expects Schwarzenegger to
honor his pledge to Latino lawmakers.

"The answer is he is going to get this done, eventually," Sragrow said.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Cedillo

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 3, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL FIXES SECURITY FLAWS;
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS ARE ALREADY ON THE ROAD

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 472 words


Six months have passed since Sen. Gil Cedillo agreed to repeal his bill granting
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger agreed
to work with him on a new one.

Wednesday, the Democratic senator from Los Angeles pressed the governor by
introducing a revised bill setting out how illegal immigrants could qualify for
licenses.

This latest version of SB 1160 removes virtually all of the excuses
Schwarzenegger might offer for not making good on his promise.

The bill that nearly went into effect last year did have security flaws that
might have enabled criminals, terrorists and identity thieves to get licenses.
Former Gov. Gray Davis shouldn't have signed it. Voters were poised to repeal it
if the Legislature hadn't on its own.

Cedillo's latest version of SB 1160 is much improved. Immigrants would have to
submit multiple forms of identification, including a birth certificate, a
passport or official ID from their native country, such as a matricula consular,
proof of California residency and other information. They would have to submit a
photo and fingerprints for a criminal background check and find a sponsor who's
a U.S. citizen holding a California driver's license. They'd also have to pay a
stiff license fee -- $146 to cover costs, including citizenship classes for
immigrants who'd face years to become eligible for citizenship, if ever.

It is true, as Schwarzenegger's advisers point out, that not all foreign
government-issued IDs can be trusted. But the multiple documents and the
extensive vetting that the bill would require should satisfy security concerns
while discouraging fraud.

Some critics of the bill object to giving any legal recognition to illegal
immigrants. But millions of illegal immigrants live in California. They will
drive whether they have a license or not because they have to get themselves to
work, their kids to school and their relatives to a doctor.

Providing them a way to have a license will make them legal drivers, entered in
the Department of Motor Vehicles database, with fingerprints and a photo.

Schwarzenegger has suggested that illegal immigrants be issued distinctly marked
licenses that make clear they are not to be used as official IDs. Cedillo and
supporters have rejected this outright. It would invite discrimination, they
said, and smacks of the Star of David that the Nazis made Jews wear.

Such a comparison is over the top. A license used solely to certify an
immigrant's right to drive, similar to what Tennessee passed last month, at
least deserves discussion. It might minimize security concerns as well as the
need for background checks.

The administration's initial criticisms of Cedillo's bill sound thin. But there
should be room for compromise, as long as Schwarzenegger's commitment is real.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 1, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

KERRY OPPOSES LICENSE LAWS;
HE PREFERS EASING PATH TO CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: NEDRA PICKLER, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH


Democrat Sen. John Kerry said he opposes state laws that give driver's licenses
to illegal immigrants, a position that puts him at odds with the Latino
activists he is courting in the presidential race.

Immigrant advocates have been pushing for the laws, saying they help
undocumented workers get around safely. Licensed drivers know the rules of the
road and can buy insurance, making streets safer for everyone, they say.

Shortly after Kerry told the National Council of La Raza on Tuesday that he
would make immigration reform a top priority to ease the path to citizenship for
working immigrants, he took a tougher stance on the issue of driver's licenses
in an interview with the Spanish-language network Telemundo.

"I think that driver's licenses are part of the legality of being here, and if
you've been here a period of time we may work something out as part of that
immigration process, but I wouldn't give somebody who is automatically one year
in here illegally all the rights and privileges of being here legally," Kerry
said in the interview.

"I think that's wrong. That defeats the purposes of the law," he said.

Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy at the National Council of La Raza,
said Wednesday that Kerry's comments "somewhat undercut" his well-received
speech before her organization.

"I guess what's frustrating is that Senator Kerry was just at our conference
making terrific proposals that would benefit the immigrant community," Munoz
said. "This stand is going to be much less well-received."

Kerry spokesman David Wade said Wednesday that Kerry thinks it is a state
responsibility to decide who gets a driver's license. Wade said Kerry would not
support any federal efforts to stop states from giving them to illegal
immigrants.

President Bush's re-election campaign did not return telephone calls about his
position on the issue.

California was set to allow driver's licenses for illegal immigrants until the
legislation became an issue in the state's gubernatorial recall election.
Despite protests from immigrant communities, Republican Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger signed a measure repealing the law shortly after taking office
last November. But he is working with the sponsor of the original bill on
another plan to grant driving privileges to illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 2004

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Kerry
Candidate against state laws issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 19, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GIVE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS LICENSES;
WITH A DIFFERENCE;
COMPROMISE WOULD PROVIDE SAFETY, RECOGNIZE CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 499 words


The perennial issue of whether to grant driver's licenses to illegal immigrants
appears headed for another stalemate. That's unfortunate and unnecessary;
immigrant families, caught in the tug between Republican conservatives and
liberal pro-immigration Democrats, will bear the consequences of inaction.

It's time for compromise. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has offered one: a driver's
license that looks different from a regular one. Sen. Gil Cedillo, the Los
Angeles Democrat who has led the crusade for a driver's license bill, should
accept it.

Undocumented workers would be far better off with the right to drive legally --
getting to work on time, without fear of being pulled over and their cars
impounded -- than with no right at all. The state, too, would benefit by having
more drivers insured, fingerprinted and entered into the DMV database.

For Cedillo and his allies, a differentiated license is non-negotiable. He plans
to push SB 1160 through the Legislature and send it to the governor, who
promises to veto it.

Cedillo says a license with a distinguishing mark might invite discrimination or
even deportation. The ongoing campaign by Hispanic rights groups to have state
and local governments accept a consular ID as an official identification,
revealing the holder as a non-citizen, undermines Cedillo's case.

His and others' comparison of a different license with the Star of David that
Jews were forced to wear in Hitler's Germany is outrageous hyperbole. While it
is both humane and, from a safety perspective, wise, to let illegal immigrants
drive legally, there is no obligation to give them a document that implies
citizenship.

A driver's license has come to function as an official ID, used to get on
airplanes, obtain permits and government benefits, even to apply for a job.
There are legitimate reasons to know whether the holder is a citizen.

SB 1160, to Cedillo's credit, has strong requirements, including a background
check and finger-printing. But these security checks rely on background
documentation, such as consular IDs and foreign birth certificates, that are not
fool-proof. Schwarzenegger's concern over fraud is defensible. The 9/11
Commission, in calling for federal standards for driver's licenses, indicated
similar concerns.

Over the past few weeks, Cedillo has turned up pressure with letter-writing
campaigns, protests and inter-faith rallies. We doubt Schwarzenegger will budge.
The push for SB 1160 coincides with a counter-movement, the son of Proposition
187, to deny illegal immigrants all benefits, including a driver's license, not
mandated by the federal government. We fear that granting immigrants an
undifferentiated license would play into the hands of those promoting this
noxious idea.

Allowing undocumented workers to drive legally would make their lives less
fearful and the streets safer. A different-looking license would accomplish this
without awarding a document often associated with citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KURT HEGRE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
United Farm Worker members and supporters rally in Earlimart, Calif., to support
legislation that would allow undocumented immigrants to obtain driver's
licenses.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 27, 2003 Saturday

The amnesty mistake

SECTION: OP-ED

LENGTH: 723 words


SO much for once bitten, twice shy. The Bush White House floated an amnesty
proposal for illegal immigrants in the summer of 2001, roiling its political
base among conservatives and getting nowhere before the Sept. 11 attacks buried
the idea. Now, the White House is back again, considering another amnesty
proposal that is likely only to produce the same results.

There has never been popular backing for the current, historically high levels
of immigration into the United States. But the high-immigration policy has
rolled on, with the support of a political establishment eager to pander to
pro-immigration special interests. Democratic candidates for president have been
playing for the Hispanic vote with various amnesty proposals, and the White
House now wants a piece of the action. On this issue, apparently, as goes Dick
Gephardt, so goes President George Bush.

Bush is reportedly considering broadly endorsing a plan that would: 1] allow
guest workers into the United States to take jobs advertised by the Department
of Labor; 2] create a new visa for illegal workers already here to allow them to
live in the United States legally for three years before starting the process of
getting a green card. The guest-worker program will inevitably be abused and
create more permanent immigration, while the three-year proposal is just a
slow-motion amnesty for illegals. Congressional conservatives will resist the
changes, likely handing Bush a defeat and a black eye with his political base in
an election year. Good.

"Every guest-worker program in history has failed," says Mark Krikorian of the
Washington, D.C.-based Center for Immigration Studies. "It always results in
permanent immigration." This one would be no different. According to Krikorian,
even under a small, tightly controlled Mexican guest-worker program in Canada,
roughly half of the workers ended up staying permanently. So a guest-worker
program is a sneaky way of increasing levels of immigration that are already
extremely high.

As for the economic effect, importing unskilled Mexican workers here only serves
to subsidize low-wage, old-fashioned ways of doing business. Our system of
Mexican-worker peonage has an effect roughly similar to sharecropping in the
South, which discouraged the mechanization of the cotton harvest.

Proponents of the guest-worker program argue that it is the only way to fill
certain jobs in the United States. Nonsense. Without cheap Mexican labor,
employers will offer better wages and more health insurance to try to attract
workers [something liberals usually favor, by the way]. Failing that, they will
turn to new technologies and -- in the case of agriculture -- adjust their crops
to de-emphasize labor-intensive hand-picking.

An amnesty will inevitably present a security problem. The U.S. immigration
system is already overwhelmed. Putting aside the reliability of Mexican
documentation, who is going to do the background checks on hundreds of thousands
of new immigrants coming here? During the last amnesty in 1986, there were
thousands upon thousands of cases of fraud. One plotter in the 1993 World Trade
Center bombing gained amnesty under the 1986 law as a farmworker. "There is no
way that a new amnesty program won't give green cards to terrorists," says
Krikorian. "I can guarantee it."

So what should we be doing with an illegal population that numbers at least 8
million? First, stop adding to it, which means no guest-worker program or
amnesty to reward people for coming here illegally. Then, we should squeeze the
illegal population which will reduce through attrition -- mostly from voluntary
returns -- if it is made harder to be an illegal alien here. Employers should be
required to make better checks of the legal status of new hires, documentation
should be made more fraud-proof and agencies of the federal government should
cooperate more in identifying illegal workers.

Rich Lowry [comments.lowry@nationalreview.com] ] is editor of the National
Review and author of the recently released book "Legacy: Paying the Price for
the Clinton Years."

All of this is very achievable. But the political establishment, in the form of
the Democratic Party and George W. Bush both, wants to go in the opposite
direction. May Bush be twice bitten, and the harder the better.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              23 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 25, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MORE ILLEGAL WORKERS STAY IN U.S. FOR HOLIDAYS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 116 words


An increasing number of migrant workers and other illegal immigrants from Mexico
who used to go home for the holidays are spending Christmas in the United
States, largely because of tighter security along the border.

Many of them could cross into Mexico easily, but they are afraid they would not
be able to get back into the United States.

It is a sea change in the once-predictable flow of migrant workers and other
mostly unskilled, seasonal laborers.

The effect is clear in Northern California's Napa Valley, where farmhands once
packed for Mexico after harvesting prized wine grapes. The vines are now bare,
but many workers are still hanging around and looking for odd jobs.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 6, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE $10-AN-HOUR SOLUTION;
AMERICANS WON'T DO CERTAIN JOBS? THEY WOULD IF THE PAY WENT UP AND THERE WAS A
CRACKDOWN ON HIRING ILLEGALS

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 540 words


The caller said he was "just an ordinary, moderate Republican." He was offended
by illegal immigrants who want drivers' licenses, worried about good American
jobs gone bad, and disappointed over the new talk about cutting a new
immigration deal with Mexico.

Here was a guy who, like millions of ordinary Americans, sensibly touched on one
of the basic but least talked about arguments against massive immigration. What
offended him most was the claim that Americans don't want to do certain jobs.
They will, he said, but at certain wages.

"I remember when janitor was a good paying job," he said. "And all those
construction jobs. Why are immigrants doing them?"

I told him about Mr. Gamble, the janitor at my old elementary school in East Los
Angeles. He made enough money to own a nice car and house, enough to stick
around until retirement. But that was back when schools and companies employed
their own janitors. I told him about Maximo Viramontes, a widower on our block
who managed to buy two houses and raise 11 children on a construction laborer's
paycheck. But that was back when working-class families could purchase a home on
one salary.

It's an appealing thought, isn't it? If only we got rid of the undocumented
workers and drastically reduced the number of legal immigrants, unskilled but
necessary jobs like mopping floors and digging trenches would pay decently
again. Unemployed Americans would rush into the better ones, and we could bring
in temporary guest workers for the rest.

This economic answer is a delusion. For starters, Americans are becoming better
educated and more middle class. The population, in general, is aging rapidly. We
will eventually become like the Japanese and Germans; we won't want menial jobs
at any wage, so we'll have to import unskilled workers in large numbers. The
question then will be whether they should have a chance at citizenship or remain
second-class residents.

But for the moment, I'll be a political realist. With the Republicans in charge
of the federal government and immigration policy, we can expect them to reject a
blanket amnesty for illegal immigrants and propose a limited, guest worker plan
that will be enforced.

My moderate Republican caller liked that idea, and I suppose millions of other
worried Americans will too. So here are just two modest proposals of my own to
help enforce a new, Republican-driven immigration policy:

* Raise the national, minimum wage above $10 an hour because employers won't do
it on their own. The goal should be decent pay and basic benefits for Americans
in unskilled jobs, as well as a more stable workforce for their employers.

* Make the recruitment and hiring of illegal immigrants a felony. If you deny
any American a job opportunity by breaking immigration laws, you should go to
prison. That goes for corporate CEOs and middle-class couples who hire
undocumented nannies, too.

I don't suppose the Republican leadership in Washington will ever go for a
minimum-wage hike or a real crackdown on employers. However, they are talking
about amnesty for some, if not all, illegal immigrants. If the undocumented
aren't all "criminals" to the GOP leadership, that's good enough for me, at
least for now.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: GREGORY BULL -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
A 2-year-old boy, center, waits with other members of his family outside the
town of Sasabe, Mexico, just yards from the Arizona border. The family planned
to cross the border illegally that night, in May 2002.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 16, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH PLAN ALIENATES GOP SENATE CANDIDATES;
IMMIGRATION PROPOSAL DRAWS OPPOSITION FROM 4 HOPEFULS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 729 words


Smaller government. Tax cuts. Defeating Democratic incumbent Barbara Boxer. The
main contenders in the California Republican primary for U.S. Senate all agree
when it comes to those views popular with their party.

But there's a topic that's too touchy for any of the candidates to line up
behind President George Bush -- illegal immigration.

Bush's proposal to legalize many undocumented workers -- the largest share of
whom are in California -- has the GOP candidates criticizing, albeit carefully,
the president.

Howard Kaloogian says he would strengthen enforcement at the border. Rosario
Marin vows to work with the Mexican government to reform its economic policies.
Toni Casey proposes allowing seasonal migrant workers to stay less than a year.
Bill Jones prefers to support the president but opposes amnesty for the more
than 2 million illegal immigrants in the state.

"What the various positions among the Republican candidates tell us is two
things: There isn't a fully developed Republican position on what to do about
immigration, but everybody seems to agree that the president's proposal should
not be the Republican position," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C.

Bush's immigration plan, announced last month but not yet proposed by a member
of Congress, would offer legal status to millions of undocumented workers
already in the country and provide three-year work visas for those outside the
country who would come to take jobs that Americans won't fill. Bush refused to
classify his plan as an amnesty, but said the work visas would be renewable.

More opposition

The plan is opposed by pro-immigration groups that insist immigration reform
should lead to permanent residency and citizenship for undocumented workers.

GOP Senate candidates running in the March 2 primary abhor Bush's plan because
it rewards illegal immigrants.

In fact, Kaloogian, the candidate most vocal against the proposal during a
recent forum in Republican-rich Placer County, received the loudest applause.

"I'm afraid the president has a bad policy for California, and a bad policy for
the country," Kaloogian told 300 party loyalists at the annual Lincoln Day
dinner Wednesday in Roseville. The plan, he said, was "mechanically flawed and
morally wrong."

Kaloogian, a former state Assembly member whose constituents lived near the
U.S-Mexico border, suggested the United States should increase border security
and government officials should deal with the source of the problem, by
pressuring Mexico to improve its conditions so that fewer people will want to
migrate north.

Casey, former mayor of Los Altos Hills who was a Bush appointee in the Small
Business Administration, told the audience, "I love my president," but said she
couldn't support the immigration plan, calling it "for all practical purposes,
an amnesty."

As senator, Casey said she would propose a six-point plan to tackle illegal
immigration: increase border security, enforce and strengthen employer
sanctions, deny federal transportation funds to states that allow driver's
licenses for illegal immigrants, deny amnesty, make the federal government
reimburse California's illegal-immigration related expenses, and create a guest
worker program that lasts up to a year.

While Marin didn't directly address the issue, she spoke about her background as
a Mexican immigrant. She said she came to the United States as a teenager,
quickly learned English and eventually was appointed by Bush to be the nation's
41st treasurer, a post she held in 2001-2003.

Mexico criticized

A week earlier, in a speech in Orange County, Marin said it was "distressing"
that Mexico has failed to begin reforms to improve its economy and quality of
life. "The absorption of Mexico's unemployment into the underground labor market
in the United States is not a panacea for Mexico's economic woes," she told
supporters at the Richard M. Nixon Library in Yorba Linda.

Jones, the former California secretary of state and an insider candidate
endorsed by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, avoided the topic. In an interview last
week with the Mercury News, Jones said Bush's plan was merely a "concept." Jones
refused to take a position because the plan wasn't yet a legislative bill. But,
like the other candidates, he said he opposes amnesty.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (4);
PHOTO: Kaloogian
He says he would strengthen enforcement at the U.S.-Mexican border.
PHOTO: Marin
She says it was "distressing" that Mexico has failed to improve its economy.
PHOTO: Casey
She proposes allowing seasonal migrant workers to stay less than a year.
PHOTO: Jones
He opposes amnesty for the more than 2 million illegal immigrants in the state.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 23, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GET A GRIP ON THE BORDER;
IT'S TIME TO STOP ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: VICTOR DAVIS HANSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 773 words


The Bush administration's proposed guest worker program might seem to be a good
beginning -- splitting the difference between open and closed borders, and
between amnesty and deportation.

Vicente Fox, the president of Mexico, counts on the $12 billion in worker
remittances sent his way -- and he can either encourage or discourage millions
more of his citizens to head north in lieu of needed radical reform at home.

But what about the hundreds of thousands of workers already here who either
cannot or will not participate? Will illegal immigrants outside the program be
stopped at the border, requiring more guards or an extensive wall? Or once here,
are they now to be deported without their requisite papers?

Escape from Mexico

The proposed solution also assumes that illegal immigration is fueled solely by
too many jobs in the United States and too few workers. Yet thousands of other
Mexicans come north as preteens, or when they are elderly or sick. The draw was
not necessarily immediate employment, but understandable amelioration from the
landscape of central Mexico where they cannot be sure of finding food, housing
or health care.

The guest worker program also assumes that the traditional remedies of the free
market for scarce workers -- mechanization and increased wages -- ceased to work
around 1980; that it is hard to sleep or eat out or find a cut lawn in an Iowa
or Maine where there are not tens of thousands of illegal workers; that the
social experience of guest workers in Germany and France provides encouraging
analogies for importing cheap labor; that Californians or Texans once did not do
most of their own work before the influx of industrious aliens; and that it is
economically beneficial and morally sound to use foreign workers when millions
of Americans remain unemployed.

There is a life cycle for the typical teenage worker from Oaxaca, whose
backbreaking labor is said to be essential for the economy. For a laborer of 18,
it may be a good bargain for all involved -- but for too many people, these jobs
turn out not to be entry-level or rite-of-passage, but remain dead-end. Tragedy
then ensues when an aging, unskilled worker becomes ill, is injured or laid off
and is the sole breadwinner of a large family. Only the public entitlement
industry -- health, housing, education and maintenance subsidies -- can come to
the rescue to provide some parity with Americans that his job or former job
could not. His employer, in the meantime, looks for a younger, healthier and
foreign successor. Thus the sad cycle continues.

Testing the melting pot

Illegal immigration cannot be looked at in a vacuum in an age of growing ethnic
chauvinism that sees unassimilated and often exploited foreigners in the shadows
as an oppressed constituency needing group, rather than individual,
representation. Ethnic studies, separate college graduation ceremonies
predicated on race, bilingual education, state-supplied interpreters and groups
like La Raza ("The Race") are all force-multipliers to massive illegal
immigration, and thus present us with a litmus test of theviability of the
melting pot itself.

Instead of arguing over piecemeal legislation in an election year, rolling
amnesties or the return of bracero, we might as well bite the bullet and return
to an immigration policy that worked well enough for some 200 years for people
from all over the world. We can set a realistic figure for legal immigration
from Mexico. Then we must enforce our border controls, consider a one-time
citizenship process for current residents who have been here for two or three
decades, apply stiff employer sanctions, deport all those who now break the law
and return to social and cultural protocols that promote national unity through
assimilation and integration.

Long-term gains

Under such difficult reform, we of the American Southwest might initially pay
more for our food, hotel rooms and construction. Yet eventually we will save far
more through reduced entitlements, the growing empowerment of our own
entry-level workers (many of them recent and legal immigrants from Mexico), and
the easing of social and legal problems associated with some 8 millioon to 12
million illegal residents.

More importantly, our laws would recover their sanctity. Without massive illegal
immigration, Americans would rediscover their fondness for measured legal
immigration. At a time of war, our borders would be more secure. And we all
could regain solace, knowing that we are no longer overlords importing modern
helots to do the jobs that we, in our affluence and leisure, now deem beneath
us.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: VICTOR DAVIS HANSON is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and the
author of "Mexifornia: A State of Becoming" (Encounter, 2003). He wrote this for
the Mercury News.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: NURI VALLBONA -- MIAMI HERALD
A Border Patrol agent watches the U.S.-Mexico border from a mesa near El Paso,
Tex.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 19, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RUMORS OF S.J. RAIDS ON IMMIGRATION DENIED;
MANY FOREIGN-BORN ASIANS, LATINOS SCARED BY ARRESTS IN STATE HAVE STAYED AT HOME

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 378 words


Rumors of recent immigration raids in San Jose are just that, officials said
Friday, trying to calm ethnic communities worried by the arrest of hundreds of
undocumented workers early this month in Southern California.

For the past week, many Latino and Asian immigrants have stayed at home, away
from shopping centers and businesses. Dozens will not attend a national labor
march scheduled today in San Francisco because they fear la migra, or
immigration agents, said Salvador Bustamante, regional vice president for the
Service Employees International Union Local 1877 in San Jose.

"The rumors have contributed to an atmosphere of fear and confusion," said Cary
Sanders, policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network.

There were rumors of a roundup this week at Tropicana Shopping Center in East
San Jose, reports of Mexican day laborers taken by plainclothes immigration
agents, and word of another raid at a local grocery store. None of these were
true, immigrant advocates said, even though they were widely reported by
Spanish-language media.

Early this month, border patrol agents arrested hundreds of undocumented
immigrants in sweeps in Ontario and Temecula. Those raids, particularly because
they were conducted far from the U.S.-Mexico border, struck fear among many
immigrants and fueled rumors that similar raids were made last week in San Jose
with the help of local police, immigrant advocates said.

"We really and truly want the community to know that we're not acting as agents
for the immigration service," said San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis, who spoke in
Spanish and English at a news conference Friday at the Mayfair Community Center.

"That's not something we do. We're not interested in participating in any such
raids or have we been doing so," Davis said.

Bruno Figueroa, consul general of the Mexican Consulate in San Jose, said
regional border patrol officials told him that no raids have been conducted in
Northern California.

"Our community is a safe place to live for all immigrants," said Martha Campos,
citizenship director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network.

Campos said she and other immigrant advocates called the news conference to
dispel the rumors about the raids.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 27, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN THE IMMIGRATION MUD;
UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS DO THE JOBS THAT NO ONE WANTS, BOOSTING OUR ECONOMY

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9C

LENGTH: 559 words


As the candidates for president argue about a war today and another war that
ended three decades ago, they say next to nothing about illegal immigration and
other non-war issues the winner will have to deal with. But hey, who needs them?

Some of us are doing just fine throwing mud.

The latest muck comes from the arch-conservative Center for Immigration Studies.
It said the other day that illegal immigrants cost the federal government about
$10 billion a year, and that legalizing them would triple the cost.

The only reasonable response to the new study is, so what?

Of course illegal immigrants cost the feds something. Let's take any group of
working-poor Americans. Say, minimum-wage restaurant workers without health
insurance. Measure how much they soak up in federally supported hospitals,
school meals, subsidized housing and other programs. We're talking billions of
dollars.

But that wouldn't be fair to them, right? Even though the taxes they pay
individually may not cover what they use in public services, the industries they
keep alive pay into the federal treasury. Their work has a profound economic
value that's hard to measure. Educating their children costs us now, but these
kids will be paying for our retirement down the road.

The Center for Immigration Studies might as well have dredged up a similar study
from 10 years ago in California. Back then, voters passed a mean-spirited,
round-them-up ballot measure that a federal court tossed out one year later.
Then as now, simplistic cost studies only serve to feed unrealistic demands for
herding farmworkers into Border Patrol vans, militarizing the border and other
extreme solutions.

The fact is that illegal immigrants are here and do jobs most Americans don't
really want. Another reality is that some cynical, greedy and politically
powerful industries who exploit the undocumented don't want to see anything
change. One man who knew this was Ronald Reagan, the last president to actually
advance policy by granting amnesty to illegal immigrants who'd make good
residents or citizens. President George W. Bush recently had a chance to push a
limited amnesty for farmworkers but caved under pressure from his right wing.

For better or worse, amnesty has become the policy on illegal immigration. So
the real question isn't how much illegal immigration costs. It's what do
presidential candidates George W. Bush or John Kerry think about another amnesty
for the 8 million or so illegal immigrants in this country?

If they agree to another sweeping amnesty, then how about increasing federal aid
to local hospitals and schools that would serve large numbers of newly
documented immigrants and their children? And, Mr. President and Mr. Senator,
where would you get the money? From increased taxes and immigration fees? Or
would you take it from other social programs?

These are the kinds of policy questions the candidates should be facing and
answering on the campaign trail. Just once, I'd like to see Bush and Kerry stump
in the Arizona desert, where more than 115 Mexicans have died crossingsince last
October.

Illegal immigration is a terribly emotional and complex issue that often brings
out our worst instincts and requires a bitter pill. It's also a federal
responsibility that presidents can actually do something about, war or no war.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ 's columns appear Tuesday and Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RON T. ENNIS -- FORT WORTH STAR-TELEGRAM
A U.S. Border Patrol officer watches from a hilltop in Nogales, Ariz., earlier
this month. These days, the Border Patrol is being assisted by the Army Joint
Task Force in its hunt for illegal immigrants.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 21, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAIR PLEAD NOT GUILTY TO IMMIGRATION FRAUD;
S.J. COUPLE ACCUSED OF CHEATING HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE OF $500,000

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 721 words


A San Jose couple accused of defrauding hundreds of undocumented immigrants out
of more than $500,000 pleaded not guilty Tuesday in what prosecutors say is
Santa Clara County's first major case of immigration fraud to go to trial.

Although Santa Clara County is among the most aggressive in the state in
cracking down on unscrupulous immigration consultants, prosecutors have faced a
major hurdle in combating the burgeoning industry: The victims are often
undocumented immigrants who are reluctant to come forward.

"We've had individual cases in the past, but none has gone this far," Deputy
District Attorney Dale B. Lohman said. "This is very new arena for us."

Tuesday, Noel Ramayrat, 52, pleaded not guilty to a total of 72 counts of grand
theft, tax evasion, conspiracy to commit unauthorized practice of law, and
illegal immigration consulting. He faces 57 years in state prison and is being
held in lieu of $1 million bail.

His partner, Mercedes Alcantara, 46, pleaded not guilty to 39 felony counts of
the same charges. She faces 35 years in state prison and is being held in lieu
of $250,000 bail.

Attorneys for Ramayrat and Alcantara said Tuesday that the county's evidence is
weak and will not result in convictions.

"It's unfortunate what's happened to some people, but it's not due to
Mr.Ramayrat," said Steven Woodson, a San Jose attorney representing Ramayrat.

The trial was set to begin March 8.

Ramayrat and Alcantara were arrested last January on suspicion of conducting
illegal immigration consulting out of two San Jose businesses, LICG, or Labor
and Immigration Consulting Group, and EmpBase.

Through LICG, the couple charged dozens of Filipino and Mexican immigrants
$6,000 each for green cards and federal labor certification -- a crucial
document that can lead to a work permit and a green card -- that the immigrants
were not qualified to receive. Ramayrat and Alcantara also ran the business
without posting a $50,000 bond, which the state requires of all immigration
consultants.

At the downtown office of EmpBase, a job placement agency, the pair also
fraudulently promised to obtain U.S. work visas for Filipino and Mexican workers
overseas, prosecutors said.

Judge Thomas Hastings earlier this month ordered the couple to stand trial,
after a protracted preliminary hearing that revealed the complexity of
prosecuting immigration fraud.

The preliminary hearing, a court process that usually takes a few days, lasted
more than five weeks because prosecutors pushed to get on the record the
testimony of dozens of victims, many of them undocumented immigrants who may
disappear by the time the trial gets under way. Defense lawyers and prosecutors
also had to negotiate translations from English to Spanish, and from English to
Tagalog, the national language of the Philippines.

"We're aware that some of these victims have precarious immigration situations,"
said Lohman, of the county's Major Fraud Unit. "We don't want the risk of them
not being available when the case goes to trial."

Initially, the couple faced a combined 33 felony counts. But publicity
surrounding the case prompted many victims to come forward, leading prosecutors
to file additional charges, Lohman said. Prosecutors are not questioning the
victims about their immigration status.

Legal-advocacy groups are paying close attention to the case, hoping to increase
awareness in the Bay Area's immigrant communities about consulting fraud.

"I hope that the publicity around this Santa Clara County case will increase the
knowledge in immigrant communities not to apply for benefits that sound too good
to be true, " said Katy Henrikson, immigration program director for the
Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto.

For many victims like Sunnyvale resident Marian Salvaleon, it's still unclear
whether they'll be able to recover their money. It's only after a conviction
that prosecutors can seek restitution on behalf of the victims, Lohman said.

Salvaleon, a nurse, paid Ramayrat $1,900 to obtain a U.S. work permit for her
niece in the Philippines. The niece was not qualified for the permit.

"I'm so glad this is in court, and I'm hoping that positive things might
happen," she said. "This has been very nerve-racking and emotionally
distressing."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Ramayrat
52-year-old faces 72 counts.
PHOTO: Alcantara
The 46-year-old faces 39 counts.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 25, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A SECOND CHANCE;
150,000 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WILL HAVE A YEAR TO APPLY FOR AMNESTY
SETTLEMENT MADE OF TWO FEDERAL LAWSUITS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 787 words


About 150,000 undocumented immigrants, including several thousand in the Bay
Area, who were denied the chance to apply for amnesty under the immigration
reforms of 1986, now have a second chance to live permanently in the United
States.

A new one-year application period that began Monday is part of a recent
settlement of two longstanding federal lawsuits filed in 1987 and 1988 in
California against the former Immigration and Naturalization Service. The agency
has since been split into three agencies under the new Department of Homeland
Security.

"When you don't know what will happen, you can't really carry on with your
life," said Grumk Singh Maude, a Hayward resident who entered the United States.
illegally in 1981 via Vancouver.

The lengthy litigation, filed in federal courts in Fresno and Sacramento,
accused the INS of unfairly denying amnesty to undocumented immigrants, such as
Maude, for having traveled briefly outside the United States but who otherwise
qualified for the 1986 amnesty. The landmark reforms of 1986 legalized millions
of undocumented immigrants who were in the United States before Jan. 1, 1982.

Two non-profit groups that work with immigrants, the Catholic Social Services
and the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), challenged the INS
interpretation of the law in class action lawsuits. In 1988, the INS changed its
practices but left unresolved the question of what would become of the tens of
thousands of immigrants who had already been turned away.

"The INS should have legalized their status 15 years ago," said Los Angeles
attorney Peter Schey in a statement. Schey is president of the Center for Human
Rights and Constitutional Law, the non-profit group that sought the settlement.

While the lawsuits were pending, immigrants like Maude, 39, of Malaysia, were
able to obtain temporary work permits and avoided deportation.

Maude came alone to the Central Valley when he was just 16. He first picked
olives, then began installing irrigation systems. He applied for amnesty in
1987, but was denied because he went to Vancouver for a couple of weeks to visit
a friend. In 1990, he joined one of the class action lawsuits.

In 2000, Congress approved the LIFE Act, the Legal Immigration Family Equity
Act, legislation that allowed Maude and others like him to apply for permanent
residence while the lawsuits wound their way through the courts.

Kirpal Bajwa, 65, a taxi driver in San Jose who came illegally to the United
States from India in 1980, got his green card under the LIFE legislation in
2002.

But many others were not so lucky, he said. That's why he continued to
seekresolution of the lawsuits.

"The settlement is good because now people can go on with their lives," said
Bajwa, a local organizer of the Association for Residency and Citizenship in
America, a group of undocumented immigrants.

Many applications under the LIFE legislation have been tied up in the
immigration backlog. Maude has been waiting for approval since 2002.

"For me, the only good outcome is when I get my green card," said Maude.

Under the settlement, Maude and others who have pending applications under the
LIFE Act may simultaneously reapply for legalization during the one-year
application period. Maude said he'll reapply in July when he learns the status
of his LIFE application. Those approved will receive a one-year temporary
residence status, then they'll qualify to apply for a green card.

Raul Ray, an immigration attorney in San Jose, said there are some advantages to
reapplying. Immigrants don't have to submit original documents, as required
under the original amnesty program, he said. In addition, a court-appointed
adjudicator will help decide cases in dispute, avoiding lengthy delays, he said.

Beginning next month, the Asian Law Caucus will conduct a series of workshops in
the Bay Area to help undocumented immigrants resubmit their 1986 amnesty
applications, Joren Lyons, staff attorney with Asian Law Caucus, said.
APPLYING FOR AMNESTY
A one-year application period began Monday for undocumented immigrants who were
denied the chance to apply for amnesty under the 1986 immigration reforms. The
federal government earlier this year settled two lawsuits on the issue, allowing
thousands of undocumented immigrants to re-apply. To qualify, applicants must
have:

Entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982.

Applied for amnesty but were rejected by the INS because of brief tripabroad.

For additional information, call the Asian Law Caucus in San Francisco at (415)
896-1701 or visit the Web site of the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional
Law at www.centerforhumanrights.org.
Source: Mercury News

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Grumk Singh Maude of Hayward entered the United States illegally in 1981. He
seeks the chance to apply for amnesty.
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
At his Hayward home, Grumk Singh Maude, 39, says he will take the opportunity to
apply for amnesty after entering the United States illegally. There is a
one-year application period.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 30, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COUPLE PLEAD NO CONTEST IN IMMIGRANT FRAUD SCHEME

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 530 words


A month before they were set to go to trial, a San Jose couple accused of
stealing more than a half million dollars from undocumented immigrants pleaded
no contest this week to multiple felony charges in one of Santa Clara County's
largest immigration fraud schemes.

Noel Ramayrat, 52, and Mercedes Alcantara, 46, according to prosecutors,
operated two illegal immigration consulting offices in San Jose and bilked
hundreds of undocumented immigrants from around the Bay Area.

Ramayrat, who remains in Santa Clara County Jail, pleaded no contest Monday to
61 felony counts of grand theft, payroll tax evasion and tax fraud. He faces up
to six years in state prison.

Alcantara, who was released from jail Monday on her own recognizance, pleaded no
contest to 28 felony counts of similar charges. She faces two to three years in
prison.

A sentencing date has not been scheduled.

"I'm relieved that the system has worked and defendants have been held
accountable and victims have been spared more trauma in court," said Deputy
District Attorney Dale Lohman of the major fraud unit of the county prosecutor's
office. "It sends the message that we will aggressively prosecute immigration
fraud."

Ramayrat, according to court records, falsely represented himself as a lawyer
and advised Mexican busboys and kitchen workers that they could apply for
federal labor certification, green cards and amnesty when, in fact, they did not
qualify.

The couple processed work visa applications from Mexican and Filipino immigrants
who were seeking legal immigration status in the United States. They also
operated a placement agency that falsely promised high-paying jobs that could
lead to permanent residency in the U.S.

In all, the couple collected more than $648,000 from their clients, for
immigration benefits that many of the undocumented immigrants were not qualified
to receive. Many of the victims are now facing deportation.

Immigration lawyers and immigrant advocates have watched the case closely since
the couple's arrest in December 2002.

"What this tells us is there should be much more enforcement," said Mary
Dutcher, immigration program director for Community Legal Services in East Palo
Alto.

Ramayrat and Alcantara are likely to be ordered to pay restitution, but it's not
clear how much.

Ramayrat, who had insisted on his innocence from the beginning, expressed
remorse through his attorney, Steven Woodson, of San Jose.

"He didn't mean to hurt anyone," Woodson said of Ramayrat. "He feels very badly
for the people who are in a bad position."

Alcantara "had become weary of the process and was no longer of the mind to
fight the charges," according to her court-appointed lawyer, Ric Squaglia of
Fresno.

For some of the couple's victims, the end to the case could not have come
sooner.

"It's about time. A lot of people have been waiting for this," said Ted Boda of
San Jose, whose wife, Jessica, was briefly deported to Mexico after discovering
that immigration papers filed by the couple were falsified.

Jessica Boda, who testified at the couple's preliminary hearing in January, now
has a pending application for a green card.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Ramayrat
Faces up to six years in prison.
PHOTO: Alcantara
Faces three years in prison.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 22, 2003 Monday

Taxes, not licenses

SECTION: READER S LETTERS

LENGTH: 1198 words


REGARDING YOUR editorial on issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

The United States has made no significant effort to prevent Mexican people from
coming to this country. They have come, they have had children here, and their
children are U.S. citizens with all of their protected rights. By default, we
have given the illegal immigrants certain rights as well. Clearly, they are here
to stay.

I have no problem with issuing them a license to drive a car to go to work, or
to do their work.

I do have a problem if the workers [and their employers] avoid paying required
taxes. Do illegal immigrants [and their employers] pay Social Security, worker's
compensation, Medicare, income tax, etc, etc.? Or do they get a free ride at my
expense?

On a related issue, my concern with the Workers Resource Center here in San
Mateo is that it offers both workers and employers government funded resources
to evade paying taxes.

Maybe the concern should not be with driver's licenses, but with I-9 compliance.

Bob Young

San Mateo

Driving is a privelege

AWARDING California driver's licenses to people who haven't earned them may be
The Times' idea of reality [editorial, 12/16]. Mine differs -- it's that, in a
nation like ours, driving is a privilege to be earned, not to be confused with
basic rights. We abandon the standard only at great risk.

There's no denying that the people in question, largely Hispanics, have 1]
skirted the law to get here and 2] become vital to our service-based economy.

In place of further winking at No. 1, as The Times suggests, it's time for a
long, hard look at No. 2. As one-fifth of our County's population, hard-working
Hispanics have carved a niche in our job market by taking humble jobs for
minimal pay. They also enrich us culturally with strong allegiance to family and
faith.

Reality says we find a way to regularize the status of those we accept, even
welcome, in the kind of low-paying jobs our kind of economy spawns, with too few
takers from the rest of us. "Interim immigrants" might be the term, a sort of
legal foot-in-the-door-to-opportunity, opening to more -- if earned -- like
licenses to drive.

In our long, hard look, include the economy we've let take hold. Service has its
place. But are we now too much servers and served? Such is hinted in our loss of
capacity, of brawny skills and drive, to convert raw makings into essentials and
comforts for ourselves and trading partners.

Our Hispanics may have some ideas about that.

James W. Kelly

San Bruno

Question lies with the law

YOUR EDITORIAL on driver's licenses for illegals conflates race with legal
status. Irish, European, and Canadian illegal aliens are in the same category
and status as Latino illegals. Under current law, illegal aliens cannot get
driver's licenses, regardless of nationality.

Likewise you conflate Latinos with illegal aliens. Legal Latinos who "cut our
grass, wash our clothes, and cook our meals" can also obtain driver's licenses.
Illegal aliens can't.

The larger question, which you fail to address, is this: Should immigration laws
be enforced?

It just isn't that easy to answer this question. If the answer is "Yes" then any
illegal applying for a driver's license should be deported before they fill out
the paper work! If the answer is "No" then why have the laws?

I hope you see the problem. How do you responsibly handle this issue in a
society that is fundamentally based upon rule of law? I think the answer is that
we need to somehow adjust immigration laws, but I can't tell you how.

Certainly the problem is more complex than your shallow race-baiting editorial
allows.

Jack Foster III

Foster City

Setting record straight

IN A RECENT ARTICLE regarding the creation of a Performing Arts venue at the new
Century Theatres complex in Daly City ["City still waiting on theater's promise"
Dec. 13], there was an error that may have occurred due to a misunderstanding,
or my error in information provided to the reporter. I would like to correct the
error.

The article indicates that there has been no contact with Century Theatres since
August of this year. Actually, there was a discussion in September and another
one with Mr. Joe Syufy in November in which they committed to provide
independent estimates of the work to be performed in an effort to reduce the
cost of the improvements.

In a recent discussion with Mr. Syufy, he confirmed that the estimates they were
seeking were due within a few days and this information would allow us to
successfully proceed on an agreement and complete the improvements early next
year.

As I stated, I feel certain that Century Theatres will fulfill its commitment to
provide a Performing Arts venue to our community and anticipate that this new
asset to the community will be available by next spring based upon Mr. Syufy's
sincere commitment to completing the needed improvements.

John C. Martin

City Manager of Daly City

Jackson no victim

MICHAEL JACKSON is being convinced he is a victim of racial discrimination? No.
He is a victim of himself. He needs psychological help, not people covering up
for him. Nobody is doing Jackson any favors by keeping silent about his bizarre
behavior.

Tina Palmer

San Bruno

Cut budget at the top

I'M CURIOUS. Can the Assembly members, State Senators, Committee Chairmen, Board
members, Vice Governor, Secretary of State, State Treasurer, Attorney General,
assistants to various officials, have their salaries cut to save budget costs?
Be laid off? How about committee budgets slashed or suspended?

Why not suspend money to Caltrans' to fund the "baby bullet" train to make
commuting between San Francisco and San Jose faster? Right now that seems a lot
extra to me.

If teachers need to be laid off, students forced to pay higher tuition, and
fewer classes offered, why don't those in upper offices, many in Sacramento,
have to suffer the same pains?

Can people sue their state officials? Some cities are reported to be doing this
to get the money they need. Why do the cities, counties, and taxpayers face the
cuts, and still pay taxes to fund those state jobs? And you know I am not
talking about State Troopers or California Highway Patrol Officers.

I really don't want the answer that we voted to spend the funds. Those in
offices from city government to our top leaders vote themselves raises all the
time, so why aren't they cutting them now? Because they don't want to share in
the spending problem they created.

You've done some great articles about the unfair balance of education services,
how about one about what is really spent "up on the hill" ?

Peggy Guernsey

Hayward

Writing to us

WE INVITE READERS to share their views. Letters must be 250 words or less, and
include your name, home address and daytime phone number.

Please limit My Word articles to 550 words or less. All letters are subject to
verification and editing for legal aspects, style, clarity and brevity.

E-mail: istewart@sanmateocountytimes.com [no attachments, please].

Fax: 348-4446.

Write: Letters to the Editor, San Mateo County Times, 1080 South Amphlett Blvd.,
San Mateo 94403.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              33 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 25, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE SENATORS VOTE TO REPEAL NEW DRIVER'S LICENSE LAW;
DEMOS RETREAT ON BENEFIT FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS, SEEK COMPROMISE

BYLINE: ANN E. MARIMOW, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 835 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


In a stunning turnaround, Senate Democrats on Monday joined Republicans to
unanimously repeal the law letting illegal immigrants apply for driver's
licenses, putting Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger one step away from delivering on a
top campaign pledge.

Supporters of the law were under intense public pressure from a possible March
ballot initiative to repeal the unpopular measure. If the Assembly follows suit
next week, which is likely, the referendum sponsors have promised to abandon
their campaign.

The Senate voted 33-0 to repeal the law, which is scheduled to take effect Jan.
1. Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, agreed to join the fight to kill his own law
after Schwarzenegger last week opened the door to a compromise measure that
would include tougher security provisions such as background checks.

"The political reality is that it's not popular," said Cedillo, who was visibly
choked up during a committee hearing before the full Senate vote. "I'm placing
my faith and confidence with the governor that we will work to resolve this."

To make the unusual deal stick, Schwarzenegger needed Cedillo's help to persuade
enough Democrats to repeal the measure by a two-thirds majority, allowing the
governor to follow through on his promise to voters.

A Schwarzenegger aide said the governor was pleased with the Senate vote and
"looks forward to the Assembly following suit."

"He has told the senator and others he remains open to fresh legislation," said
deputy press secretary Vince Sollitto.

The dramatic shift by Democrats underscores how the dynamics in the Capitol have
already changed in just the second week of Schwarzenegger's administration.

Almost three months ago, the bill passed the Democrat-controlled Legislature on
a partisan vote, over the objections of Republican lawmakers who said the
measure threatened public safety. Former Gov. Gray Davis, who had vetoed similar
legislation, signed the bill into law in September, hoping to shore up his
Democratic base to defeat the recall. But even among core Democrats and Latinos,
the law faced overwhelming opposition.

Monday, the liberal Cedillo joined with conservative Republican Sen. Thomas
"Rico" Oller of Granite Bay to urge his colleagues to repeal the law.

"It's a bitter pill to swallow for Gil," said Jaime Regalado, executive director
of the Pat Brown Institute of Public Affairs. But it allows Democrats to "save
face by appearing to agree and work with the new governor," hesaid.

Assembly Democrats will probably follow the lead of Cedillo, who has pushed for
similar legislation for five years. The full Assembly is unlikely to reconvene
until after the Thanksgiving holiday. Some legislators are out of town this
week, attending a conference in Hawaii sponsored by the state prison guard's
union.

During the recall campaign, Schwarzenegger's promise to repeal the law became a
popular issue with voters. He said he would not negotiate. But last Tuesday, in
his first press conference as governor, Schwarzenegger said he would consider an
alternative version of the law "if you can put the whole package together, tied
to insurance, tied to background checks and all that."

In a meeting Friday in Los Angeles, Cedillo said, the governor again committed
to working on a bill. Asked how he could be sure there was a deal, Cedillo, a
former labor negotiator, said: "If you have good faith, you don't need paper."

"He's an immigrant so he has some sensitivities to that life experience,"
Cedillo added.

But not every supporter of the driver's license law was satisfied. Dolores
Huerta, the co-founder of the United Farm Workers, called the repeal
"outrageous."

"This is a wedge issue and I'm sorry to see that Democrats are buying into it,"
she said.

An estimated 2 million illegal immigrants drive in California without a license
or insurance. Oller and Republicans argued that the law would have rewarded
illegal conduct and made it easier to obtain fraudulent licenses for people
looking to create a new identity.

"This bill is not about immigration," Oller said. "It is about the rule of law."

Until 1994, illegal immigrants were allowed to apply for California driver's
licenses. If the Assembly does not follow the Senate, the new law would allow an
illegal immigrant to use a federal taxpayer identification number instead of a
Social Security number to apply for a license.

Among the Democrats who reversed their votes were San Jose Sen. John
Vasconcellos, who said he was convinced Democrats could get a better deal by
negotiating with Schwarzenegger than by allowing the law to be repealed by
voters in a March referendum, sponsored by a group of conservative Republicans.

"The Democrats in the Legislature realize that they would get wiped out on this
issue if it were on the ballot in March and that's the last thing they need in
an election year," said Republican consultant Dan Schnur. "Better to take a step
back now and try to negotiate a compromise once the heat is off."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICH PEDRONCELLI -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
The law's sponsor, state Sen. Gil Cedillo, encouraged his fellow Democrats to
join Republicans in repealing the unpopular law, due to take effect Jan. 1. He
said Gov. Arnold Schwarz-
enegger has agreed to work on a compromise measure with tougher security
provisions.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 27, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINO LAWMAKERS LINK LICENSE BILL TO BUDGET;
LEGISLATIVE CAUCUS THREATENS TO BLOCK SPENDING APPROVAL

BYLINE: ANDREW LAMAR, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


A dispute between Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Latino lawmakers over driver's
licenses for illegal immigrants threatens to complicate passage of the state
budget and tarnish the Republican's good relations with Democrats.

Some Latino legislators say they are prepared to vote against the state budget
if the governor does not support a bill giving the immigrants licenses once they
clear background checks and satisfy other security precautions.

While blocking the budget would be a stretch for the 24-member Latino caucus,
the talk of discontent signals potentially rough waters for Schwarzenegger, who
pledged to negotiate a workable driver's license bill earlier this year.

The governor "might be headed for a big rut in the road, but so far he has shown
a remarkable ability to steer around those ruts," said Jack Pitney, a government
professor at Claremont McKenna College. "So far, he has cultivated the image of
uniter, not a divider. These divisions are potentially troubling."

When he first came into office, Schwarzenegger pressured the Legislature to
repeal a similar law allowing licenses for illegal immigrants. That law had
proved unpopular during last year's recall campaign. Schwarzenegger pushed for
repeal because, he said, the law had been rushed and didn't do enough to
safeguard against terrorists obtaining licenses.

In January, Schwarzenegger told reporters he was working "very hard" with Sen.
Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, to come up with a new version.

"I'm talking to my Republican friends all the time about it and also to my
Democratic friends. We will do it," Schwarzenegger told the Sacramento Press
Club on Jan. 27.

However, Cedillo and other powerful Latino legislators say their patience has
worn thin because the governor has not backed a new bill after months of talks.
Schwarzenegger "said at first we would have a bill in January," said Sen. Martha
Escutia, D-Norwalk, a member of the Latino caucus. "Now we've been kept
waiting."

A showdown could come this afternoon, when Latino lawmakers meet with the
governor. With 15 members in the Assembly and nine in the Senate, the Latino
caucus could make it tougher for Schwarzenegger to line up the two-thirds
majority needed to pass the budget. The governor has made it a top priority to
win approval of the budget by the June 15 deadline, although lawmakers
frequently miss that target.

Republicans and the governor's aides downplayed the threats and said any attempt
to block the budget would backfire.

"I don't think it would be a good political or policy move on their part because
people want an on-time budget," said Sen. Dick Ackerman, R-Tustin, the Senate
GOP leader. "There's no relationship between the two issues. For them to do that
would be unconscionable."

Margita Thompson, the governor's press secretary, said Schwarzenegger hadnever
promised to do more than work with Latino legislators on the issue. The
governor's staff and Cedillo representatives have met for months to resolve
security issues, she said.

"When you look at the policy, it's hard, it's complex and it's difficult,"
Thompson said. "You can't say something was committed to when there was always
the unsolved part of the equation about how to address background checks."

Cedillo has drafted a new bill that, he said, would address the governor's chief
concerns. The measure, to be introduced next week, would require undocumented
immigrants who apply for licenses to enroll in citizenship programs and pay a
higher fee for their licenses that would fund background checks.

Cedillo is to join Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez, D-Los Angeles, and the chair
of the Latino caucus, Assemblyman Marco Firebaugh, D-South Gate, in a meeting
with the governor today before the Latino caucus, as a group, sits down with
him.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 28, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR REPEATS BACKING FOR LICENSE BILL;
SECURITY ISSUES MUST BE RESOLVED

BYLINE: ANDREW LAMAR, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Thursday renewed his support for granting driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants -- if security issues can be resolved.

The governor's pledge in a private meeting with Latino legislators appeared to
ease their concerns. They had feared Schwarzenegger had reneged on a promise to
negotiate new legislation to replace a law he pushed the Legislature to repeal
last fall.

It's clear "there is a willingness to try to find a compromise that is
acceptable to both sides," said Sen. Deborah Ortiz, D-Sacramento.

It's uncertain how quickly Schwarzenegger and the legislators can reach a deal,
and how committed the governor is to resolution.

Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez, D-Los Angeles, said Schwarzenegger vowed to
deliver by Aug. 31 "a bill that he could support" that would allow illegal
immigrants to obtain driver's licenses.

But Margita Thompson, the governor's press secretary, said Schwarzenegger did
nothing more in the meeting than "agree to work in good faith to settle the
security issue." There is no deadline and no way of telling how long it will
take to craft good policy, she said.

California has an estimated 2 million drivers who are illegal immigrants.

Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, was the author of the original legislation,
which became a rallying cry during last year's recall election. At
Schwarzenegger's insistence, the Legislature repealed the law two weeks after
the new governor took office.

Cedillo plans to introduce a new measure next week that would require background
checks on illegal immigrants applying for licenses, force them to pay for the
checks through higher fees and require that they take citizenship classes.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 9, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BARRIERS ON I-8 MEANT FOR IMMIGRANT SMUGGLERS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 112 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Workers began installing two-ton concrete barriers intended to stop immigrant
smugglers who have taken to driving the wrong way on Interstate 8 to avoid a
U.S. Border Patrol checkpoint.

The barriers, each 12 feet long and three feet tall, were being placed Wednesday
on the I-8 median near the checkpoint, about 40 miles east of San Diego.

The three-mile line of barriers should be completed in the next week or so, said
Tom Nipper, a Caltrans spokesman.

On Aug. 31, a van drove against oncoming traffic on I-8 for about 17 miles
before swerving back into the westbound lanes. The van spun out of control and
crashed, injuring 19 suspected illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 16, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STRONG VOICE, FOR ONE DAY ANYWAY;
UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS MAKE A POINT ABOUT THE VALUE OF THEIR LABOR

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 610 words


Carlos Evia took the day off last Friday, joining thousands of other illegal
immigrants in a one-day strike to demand their right to apply for drivers'
licenses.

"I only drive my car from home to work, and work to home," he said. "On weekends
I take the bus, even to the supermarket to buy groceries. Driving is too risky."

So is going up against Republican Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who had promised
to wipe out the driving privileges the Democratic Legislature had given to the
undocumented just a few months ago.

The Democrats, who know a dead end when they see one, relented and rescinded the
law themselves. Both sides are currently working on a new version on the bill,
with tighter background checks.

Nobody is sure exactly how many people joined the boycott or what the financial
impact was, but we do know that the state did not grind to a halt. There were
longer waits at restaurants, some Mexican bakeries closed in solidarity, and
relatively few kids skipped school. In my town, San Jose, absent kitchen workers
forced a Gordon Biersch restaurant to turn away walk-in customers. Poor yuppies,
they had to drive across town for their pints and garlic fries.

But the boycott managed to get a lot of publicity and gave a voice, if only for
one day, to an invisible segment of the community, content to live and work
quietly in the shadows.

Evia turned up at a day worker center at the Calvary Church in the heart of
Silicon Valley where he volunteers. He showed up in work clothes, a red
sweatshirt speckled with white paint and construction boots. He's one of the
lucky ones, making a solid $10 an hour as a laborer for a construction company.
Did the bosses know he was boycotting?

"Yes," Evia said.

Will he have a job next week?

"I don't know. They didn't seem upset."

Evia had a good working-class job at a Goodyear tire plant near Mexico City for
12 years. Then the air went out of the American tire market. There's an old
saying down south: When the United States sneezes, Mexico catches a cold.

He left his wife and their four teenagers at home almost three years ago and
jumped the border at Tijuana. He said he shares a one-bedroom apartment with
four other guys and sends most of his earnings home.

Evia offered the standard explanation for the boycott.

"We want him (Schwarzenegger) to understand the value of our work to the
economy," he said.

OK, but many voters simply don't care about the economic value of undocumented
immigrant labor. For them, these immigrants are criminals and don't belong here.
They don't want illegals to have anything -- no schooling or emergency room care
or drivers' licenses. Punto final.

"Look, we're not here to take anyone's job," Evia said. "We do work many
Americans won't do for the wages they pay. I've worked on jobs on rainy days
when the others didn't show up."

I can't prove it, but I've always believed that the popular backlash against
illegal immigration is less about the cost of public services for the
undocumented and more about the fear that Mexican culture will somehow overrun
American culture.

"The drivers' licenses," Evia said, "would give us a sense of security, because
we could buy (auto) insurance and not worry so much every time we drive."

Finally, undocumented immigrants are organizing and speaking out for themselves.
But I wonder if they're sending only half of the message they need to send. What
the undocumented lobby needs to do is soothe the cultural fear simmering just
below the surface.

Maybe the message undocumented workers should send is: We're good for the
economy -- and we're becoming more American than you think.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JUDITH CALSON -- MERCURY NEWS
Hundreds of people marched through downtown San Jose on Friday to make a
statement about their need for drivers' licenses.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 6, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WAL-MART IN TALKS TO SETTLE ILLEGAL WORKERS CASE

BYLINE: From Dow Jones and the Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 169 words


Wal-Mart Stores is negotiating with federal prosecutors on a legal settlement
that would resolve allegations that it used illegal workers to clean its stores,
according to lawyers close to the case.

A federal grand jury has been meeting in Pennsylvania since December to
investigate charges that the world's largest retailer knew that some of the
janitorial companies it used to clean its floors employed illegal immigrants.

Federal agents arrested about 250 alleged illegal workers last October during a
sweep of Wal-Mart stores in 21 states. Some immigrant workers have sued the
Arkansas company, claiming they were paid illegally low wages.

Wal-Mart spokesman Gus Whitcomb declined to confirm that settlement talks are
taking place, other than to say that the company was cooperating in the
investigation. He said that cooperation included "talking with government on a
regular basis."

Assistant U.S. Attorney Wayne Samuelson, who has been coordinating the grand
jury probe, declined comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 31, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MIGRANTS' SOCIAL SECURITY PAYMENTS UP FOR GRABS;
UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS PAY BILLIONS INTO THE SYSTEM BUT ARE UNABLE TO COLLECT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


For the 14 years he worked as an undocumented migrant in the United States,
Carmelo Rivera saw up to $30 deducted each week from the $300 to $500 he earned
as a vineyard worker. The deductions were supposed to pay for his retirement.

But like millions of other Mexicans who worked under false Social Security
numbers, he's unlikely ever to see a penny of it.

Neither migrants nor their government appear to be fighting the issue, despite
what's at stake: a little-known Social Security account called the"earnings
suspense file," which grows at a rate of about $6 billion a year and now stands
at about $376 billion.

The account is sort of catchall for mismatched names and numbers, but is funded
mostly by undocumented migrants, many of whom don't know the money exists.

Some see it as the price of working in America.

"People work under made-up (Social Security) numbers because they don't have any
choice," said Rivera, 34, of southern Oaxaca state. As for the lost funds -- the
only retirement savings for him and his wife -- "that's just something you take
in stride. It's part of the cost of the rules they have."

Some migrants like Rivera are afraid of being punished if they admit they worked
illegally. "We try to have as little contact with the authorities in the United
States as possible," he said.

Some lawmakers want to make sure no illegal migrants ever receive any Social
Security. A bill submitted to the House last year by Rep. Dana Rohrabacher,
R-Huntington Beach, would "forbid any Social Security credits for illegal aliens
or work (done) in violation of the terms of a visa."

The wages of undocumented workers are "illegitimate earnings, and whether some
of that money is going into the suspense file is basically irrelevant," said
Jack Martin of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, FAIR.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
Migrant workers protest unpaid retirement funds in Guadalajara. Payments are an
issue in Mexico and the U.S.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            November 28, 2003 Friday

Peter SCHRAG;
In new California,

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 864 words


THE tryptophan haze that accompanies our annual celebration of the survival of
the nation's earliest generation of undocumented aliens might not be the best
environment in which to consider the issues raised by latter-day immigration.

But given the ongoing sound and fury about marginal things such as driver's
licenses for illegal aliens, it might not be the worst time either. Most of
California's problems -- the problems that we just elected an immigrant governor
to solve -- touch on immigration and ethnicity. What better time to talk turkey.

As Californians, we're all living in a brand new state, one in which there is no
ethnic majority and where those of us who are, in the language of the census,
"non-Hispanic whites" soon no longer will be even the largest minority. Whether
our great-great-grandparents came by wagon across the Plains, or our parents
came by plane from India or by who knows what route from Mexico, we're in some
measure all immigrants to this new, ever-changing place.

In her recent book, "Where I Came From," Joan Didion, Sacramento's native
daughter, deflates the myths she grew up with, particularly each generation's
belief that it was the possessor of special rights -- as the children of
pioneers or whatever -- and that every succeeding generation, Chinese, Okies,
Mexicans, was the despoiler of the pristine condition found [or created] by its
predecessors.

It's an old American confusion. If we began in perfection, how could there be
progress? That's not a rhetorical question: As Americans, we always will be
haunted by it. And as Californians born, as some believe, in original
perfection, we seem through our passion for direct democracy to be constantly
engaged in trying to restore what we imagine that perfection to have been.

Because our brand new state has grown up around us, we're not quite sure what it
is or what we want it to be. One-fourth of us are immigrants; one-fourth of our
schoolchildren speak some language other than English at home. How much are we
willing to spend to provide them with the quality schools and colleges, and with
the generous access, that once made California the model of the world? At the
same time, to what extent and how must we restrict that immigration to make it
possible -- economically, politically, even morally -- to accommodate and
assimilate our new residents?

This is a debate that's often dominated by extremes and bereft of moderation.
Neither side seems helpful on the balance between our demand for cheap labor,
fairness and immigrants' rights, and the need to maintain some sort of control
of our borders.

By now, we ought to know more than enough to understand that policy demands
nuance and compromise. A new study from the Pacific Council on International
Policy, an affiliate of the Council on Foreign Relations, finds, in the words of
its author, Georges Vernez, that "international migration is transforming
Southern California [where the lion's share of California's Latinos are
concentrated] into the world's first global civil society." But as Vernez points
out, that grand phrase covers a lot of things, positive and negative.

Our diasporas of immigrants, he said, have served Southern California well,
"with immigrants' work ethic, entrepreneurship and lower labor costs providing
the region's employers with a competitive advantage."

But Vernez also warns that the disproportionate number of undereducated
immigrants is opening increasing income gaps and stressing the social fabric.
Thus while the second and third generations are assimilating, buying homes,
starting businesses and becoming an increasing force in the voting booth, poor
Hispanics are losing economically relative to non-Hispanic whites.

Because their children are now "a majority of the children entering the region's
school system, if not reversed, these trends will threaten the social stability
and economic health of the region," he said.

Those conclusions reinforce a recent study by Laura Hill and Joseph Hayes of the
Public Policy Institute of California showing the huge education gaps between
new immigrants from Latin America and those from Asia.

Vernez's remedies are as tough to achieve as they are simple to state: increased
investment in education, especially at the college level; federal immigration
policy changes to reduce the number of undocumented immigrants; and furtherance
of a civic culture based on tolerance and common values.

What seems increasingly certain is that, for good reasons or bad, Californians'
willingness to support schools, colleges and other major public services depends
on three interacting sets of variables: one is the state of the economy. The
second is the extent to which voters and taxpayers feel that those services
aren't swamped by waves of immigrants so large that their needs can never be
adequately met. The third is the extent to which the users of those services and
the citizens who pay and vote for them are -- and are perceived to be -- members
of the same community. The sooner we understand that we are all immigrants to
it, the faster we'll get there.

Peter Schrag writes for the Sacramento Bee.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              41 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            November 28, 2003 Friday

Peter SCHRAG;
In new California,

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 864 words


THE tryptophan haze that accompanies our annual celebration of the survival of
the nation's earliest generation of undocumented aliens might not be the best
environment in which to consider the issues raised by latter-day immigration.

But given the ongoing sound and fury about marginal things such as driver's
licenses for illegal aliens, it might not be the worst time either. Most of
California's problems -- the problems that we just elected an immigrant governor
to solve -- touch on immigration and ethnicity. What better time to talk turkey.

As Californians, we're all living in a brand new state, one in which there is no
ethnic majority and where those of us who are, in the language of the census,
"non-Hispanic whites" soon no longer will be even the largest minority. Whether
our great-great-grandparents came by wagon across the Plains, or our parents
came by plane from India or by who knows what route from Mexico, we're in some
measure all immigrants to this new, ever-changing place.

In her recent book, "Where I Came From," Joan Didion, Sacramento's native
daughter, deflates the myths she grew up with, particularly each generation's
belief that it was the possessor of special rights -- as the children of
pioneers or whatever -- and that every succeeding generation, Chinese, Okies,
Mexicans, was the despoiler of the pristine condition found [or created] by its
predecessors.

It's an old American confusion. If we began in perfection, how could there be
progress? That's not a rhetorical question: As Americans, we always will be
haunted by it. And as Californians born, as some believe, in original
perfection, we seem through our passion for direct democracy to be constantly
engaged in trying to restore what we imagine that perfection to have been.

Because our brand new state has grown up around us, we're not quite sure what it
is or what we want it to be. One-fourth of us are immigrants; one-fourth of our
schoolchildren speak some language other than English at home. How much are we
willing to spend to provide them with the quality schools and colleges, and with
the generous access, that once made California the model of the world? At the
same time, to what extent and how must we restrict that immigration to make it
possible -- economically, politically, even morally -- to accommodate and
assimilate our new residents?

This is a debate that's often dominated by extremes and bereft of moderation.
Neither side seems helpful on the balance between our demand for cheap labor,
fairness and immigrants' rights, and the need to maintain some sort of control
of our borders.

By now, we ought to know more than enough to understand that policy demands
nuance and compromise. A new study from the Pacific Council on International
Policy, an affiliate of the Council on Foreign Relations, finds, in the words of
its author, Georges Vernez, that "international migration is transforming
Southern California [where the lion's share of California's Latinos are
concentrated] into the world's first global civil society." But as Vernez points
out, that grand phrase covers a lot of things, positive and negative.

Our diasporas of immigrants, he said, have served Southern California well,
"with immigrants' work ethic, entrepreneurship and lower labor costs providing
the region's employers with a competitive advantage."

But Vernez also warns that the disproportionate number of undereducated
immigrants is opening increasing income gaps and stressing the social fabric.
Thus while the second and third generations are assimilating, buying homes,
starting businesses and becoming an increasing force in the voting booth, poor
Hispanics are losing economically relative to non-Hispanic whites.

Because their children are now "a majority of the children entering the region's
school system, if not reversed, these trends will threaten the social stability
and economic health of the region," he said.

Those conclusions reinforce a recent study by Laura Hill and Joseph Hayes of the
Public Policy Institute of California showing the huge education gaps between
new immigrants from Latin America and those from Asia.

Vernez's remedies are as tough to achieve as they are simple to state: increased
investment in education, especially at the college level; federal immigration
policy changes to reduce the number of undocumented immigrants; and furtherance
of a civic culture based on tolerance and common values.

What seems increasingly certain is that, for good reasons or bad, Californians'
willingness to support schools, colleges and other major public services depends
on three interacting sets of variables: one is the state of the economy. The
second is the extent to which voters and taxpayers feel that those services
aren't swamped by waves of immigrants so large that their needs can never be
adequately met. The third is the extent to which the users of those services and
the citizens who pay and vote for them are -- and are perceived to be -- members
of the same community. The sooner we understand that we are all immigrants to
it, the faster we'll get there.

Peter Schrag writes for the Sacramento Bee.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              42 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            January 11, 2004 Sunday

SECTION: OP-ED

LENGTH: 599 words


IMAGINE a person 10 times more determined than you are. Picture a guy who will
wade across rivers, brave 120-degree boxcars and face vicious smugglers and
murderous vigilantes -- all to get a job picking fruit for 10 hours a day. That
person is the illegal immigrant. Let's call him Sam. This whole immigration
debate is about him, the choices he faces and the way he responds. One thing we
know about Sam: He will get here. Between 1986 and 1998, Congress increased the
Border Patrol's budget sixfold. Over that time the number of undocumented
immigrants in the United States doubled, to 8 million. Getting across that
border is Sam's shot at a decent future. Maybe his whole family depends upon
him. He will not be herded away like a lamb. At the moment, Sam lives in the
shadows of society. But President Bush has proposed an immigration reform plan
that would offer him a new set of choices. Under the Bush plan, Sam could become
a visible member of society with legal documentation. He could get a driver's
license. He could benefit from worker protection laws, and possibly see his
wages rise. He could open a bank account and ship money back home without having
to pay huge fees. As Dan Griswold of the Cato Institute has shown, he would be
likely to invest in himself through worker training. More important, he could go
home and see his family. He wouldn't have to live with the constant fear of
detection. But Sam would have to think hard about the Bush proposal, because it
is not all good news. In the first place, it would tie him to a single employer.
He would have to have a job waiting to get in, and he'd have to keep it once he
was here. Instead of trying to sell his labor on the open market, or jumping at
opportunities, he'd be tied down. If he lost that job, he would have a short,
terrifying window of time to find another. More seriously, his stay in the
United States would be limited. For up to six years, Sam would be legal. At the
end of that time, he would probably face deportation. Sam might decide that it
was better not to be in the Bush system and remain in the shadows. IF Sam is
going to cooperate, if the United States is going to have the labor force it
needs, if the gangsterism and exploitation is to be finally removed from the
lives of immigrants, then Congress is going to have to take the Bush plan and
add a component that addresses immigrants' long-term dreams. There are several
ways to do this. Some have proposed a point system. Sam could earn a point every
time he did something that would make him a better citizen. A point for learning
English, for a high school equivalency degree. With enough points he could earn
a green card. The Bush plan also needs that long-term component to have any
chance of passage in the House of Representatives. About 70 Republicans will
never vote for any immigration reform. To get a majority, the administration has
to win over the other Republicans and a big chunk of Democrats. The Democrats'
present position is that Sam has to get full legalization -- or nothing. Most
Democrats dismissed the president's plan contemptuously. But if offered a
reasonable way to regularize Sam's life and give him hope for the future, I
can't believe that they would turn that down. Bush has moved Republicans a long
way on this issue, and will probably have to move them more. The Democrats
haven't budged, but if they do, we will be able to see Sam emerge and take
advantage of all the work, drive and creativity that he and millions like him
bring to this country. David Brooks writes for the New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              43 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

             September 19, 2003 Friday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

MEXICAN ID CARD RULES OK'D BY TREASURY;
IDENTIFICATION

BYLINE: From the Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 179 words


The Treasury Department said Thursday it will leave in place rules that allow
financial institutions to accept Mexican identification cards, called matricula
consular, which often are used by undocumented immigrants to open bank accounts.

The decision, which extends to all foreign-issued identification, is considered
a victory for immigration and Latino groups that have protested efforts to
prohibit use of the identification card as anti-immigrant and anti-Hispanic.
Financial institutions, too, had opposed any change in the rule.

Opponents say the cards are too fraud-prone and pose a risk to homeland
security.

The card is issued by Mexico's consulates to its citizens living abroad and
shows the date of birth, a current photograph and the address of the card
holder. Many of the cards have been issued to Mexicans in the United States,
including those in the country illegally.

Cardholders have used them to open bank accounts, turn on utilities, check out
library books, get drivers' licenses or other basic services in some communities
and states.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BUSINESS BRIEFING
NATIONAL NEWS

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 21, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CANDIDATES STUMP THE STATE;
DAVIS CHEERS IMMIGRANTS, AVOIDS AMNESTY QUESTION
OTHERS ATTACK SCHWARZENEGGER

BYLINE: BARRY WITT AND MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 936 words


Two weeks after granting illegal immigrants the right to get driver's licenses,
Gov. Gray Davis waded back into the immigration debate Saturday when he praised
a group lobbying for legal status for all immigrants, while refusing to say
whether he supported the group's key goals.

"We should welcome immigrants. We should thank them for the hard work they do
and we should do our best to accord them the dignity and respect they deserve,"
Davis told about 1,000 cheering people at a rally outside San Francisco City
Hall, where a group of "freedom riders" was beginning a bus trip to Washington,
D.C., to promote legal status for all immigrants, regardless of how they came to
the country.

Avoids answering

But asked by reporters before and after the speech whether he backed an amnesty
or legalization plan for immigrants who crossed the border illegally, Davis
ducked the subject.

"I'm not taking positions on federal issues," Davis said, adding that he signed
the driver's license bill this month because people who perform the grueling
tasks of farming California's agricultural fields deserve "certain privileges"
as taxpayers and contributors to the state's economy. Davis had previously
vetoed versions of the bill but signed it a month before facing voters, who may
decide Oct. 7 whether to recall him from office.

"I'm doing what I can as a governor. General immigration matters belong to the
Congress of the United States," Davis said.

Leaders of the labor-backed "Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride" said they weren't
disappointed Davis did not fully support their mission.

"We're excited he signed the driver's license bill," said Sheila Chung of the
Oakland-based Bay Area Immigrant Rights Coalition. "We see movement on his
part."

Davis' appearance before labor and Latino activists was his second of the day in
front of important Democratic constituencies. Earlier, he greeted diners at Cafe
Flore in the heavily gay Castro district, accompanied by Democratic U.S. Sen.
John Edwards of North Carolina, the latest presidential candidate to join the
governor in denouncing the recall.

Both Davis and Edwards blamed President Bush for the state's problems.

"If you want to have a real economic recovery in 2004, there is a simple way to
do that," Edwards said. "Make sure that George W. Bush gets a new job and Gray
Davis keeps his job."

In Southern California, Arnold Schwarzenegger was the target of sniping from
fellow Republican state Sen. Tom McClintock and Democratic Lt. Gov. Cruz
Bustamante.

Speaking at an anti-car-tax rally near San Diego, McClintock attempted to tie
the actor to the type of special-interest fundraising Schwarzenegger has been
attacking.

"Look at the millions and millions of dollars that he solicited and received
from major corporate interests across California after he promised that he would
not," McClintock told reporters at the McClellan Buick-Pontiac-GMC dealership in
Lemon Grove.

McClintock continued on that theme later in an interview on a San Diego radio
station.

"The shelf life of that promise was about two weeks," he said, referring to
Schwarzenegger's early statements that he wouldn't take donations. "Ithink an
important question occurs: What's going to be the shelf life on his other
campaign promises?"

McClintock, who is receiving increasing levels of support from Indian tribes
with casino interests, called Schwarzenegger's refusal to take Indian money this
year "hypocrisy and demagoguery" because the actor accepted tribal funds last
year to help pay for his campaign on Proposition 49, the after-school-program
initiative.

At the McClintock rally with about 100 supporters -- including one who carried a
sign that read: "Vote Republican. Not Arnold" -- about a dozen Schwarzenegger
supporters also showed up with signs of their own.

"We must be gaining if they now are going to the trouble of dispatching
hecklers," McClintock said. "That's a very good sign."

Speaking to the San Diego Democratic Party, Bustamante delivered one of his
sharpest attacks yet on Schwarzenegger.

Stepping up attack

"We're not going to be seen on 'Entertainment Tonight.' But governing our state
is not about having a good tan either," Bustamante told the audience of about
500. "I've got some pretty bad news for Arnold: Governing isn't about grabbing
the spotlight, it's about rolling up your sleeves and getting the work done."

He then zinged both Republicans.

"While Tom and Arnold were ranting and raving on talk radio, Democrats were
getting things done, were making a difference," he said, citing such recently
enacted legislation as financial-privacy protection, domestic-partner equality
and worker's compensation reform.

Afterward, Bustamante had kind words for McClintock, calling him "a serious,
passionate person" who was committed to staying in the recall campaign.

Schwarzenegger, meanwhile, appeared at a voter-registration rally in Riverside.
He repeated his campaign themes of opposing the hefty car-tax increase, calling
for education and worker's compensation reform, and rooting special-interest
politics out of Sacramento.

"We don't want those back-room deals any more," he said. "We don't want those
deals where the politicians get the money from special interests."

The actor appealed to several hundred fans and supporters to continue finding
new voters before Monday's deadline to register to vote Oct. 7.

"Go out there. Find the people and register them. Find people who never voted,"
he said.

Schwarzenegger's own voting record is spotty: He did not vote in five of the
past 11 elections.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Pages 1A, 21A, 22A, 23A
THE RECALL
WHO SHOULD LEAD TO CALIFORNIA?
Mercury News Staff Writer Laura Kurtzmann contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PAUL SAKUMA -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Hitting the campaign trail in San Francisco's Castro district Saturday are Gov.
Gray Davis, right, running against the recall, and Sen. John Edwards of North
Carolina, supporting Davis and also running for the Democratic nomination for
president.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 30, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FREED WITH MONITORS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 61 words

DATELINE: FLORIDA


One hundred illegal immigrants awaiting their day in court have been released
from jail in Florida after agreeing to wear electronic monitoring devices in the
biggest such experiment in the country.

The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement began a six-month test of the
ankle bracelet program in South Florida in August for possible nationwide use.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 1, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROJECT TO IDENTIFY BODIES AT BORDER;
ONLINE DATABASE TO HELP FAMILIES OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: T.A. BADGER, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: WACO, Texas


The sun-bleached bones are kept in a cardboard box in a locked cabinet -- a
skull, a thighbone, several ribs and vertebrae, pieces of a pelvis.

To Lori Baker's trained eye, the remains found in a lonely corner of South Texas
near the Rio Grande tell of a boy, about 13. Some of his clothing washomemade,
and he carried a dark cloth knapsack bearing the name of a Mexican university.

Baker, a forensic scientist at Baylor University, is sure the boy died while
trying to enter the United States illegally, one of hundreds who perish annually
along the hot, dry Mexican border.

"They are people, too," she said of the illegal immigrants, many of whom end up
in poorly marked graves in paupers' cemeteries. "They deserve to be buried and
have their families know what happened to them."

Baker is beginning an ambitious project to identify the bodies of hundreds of
illegal immigrants found dead along the border and share her findings with their
families back home in Mexico and Central America, who have not heard from their
loved ones since they left for the United States.

Nearly 1,400 suspected illegal immigrants died along the nation's southern
border in the past four years, according to the Bureau of Customs and Border
Protection. At least 600 bodies found since 1999 remain unidentified.

Baker's husband, Erich, a computer-science professor at Baylor, will assist the
project. She will extract DNA from the remains -- from bones, tissue, hair or
other sources -- and gather other physical clues, and he will compile the
information into a searchable, online database.

The database will list information on the immigrant, such as approximate age,
height and weight, any distinguishing marks on the body, dental work, where the
body was found, and if any clothing or jewelry was with it.

The families of the missing will be able to complete online forms asking them to
provide detailed physical descriptions of their relatives, as well as what they
probably wore, where they were last seen, and their possible destinations.

If a possible match turns up, Baker will send the family a do-it-yourself DNA
swab kit to provide the samples she needs to compare with genetic material from
the body.

Baylor, the world's largest Baptist University, agreed to provide limited
funding of Baker's work. She will also seek money from private foundations. She
estimates she will need $800,000 for the first few years.

The Bakers envision that Mexican families without computers will work through
government agencies.

The Bakers' work will be useful even if only a small percentage of bodies are
identified, said Nestor Rodriguez, co-director of the Center for Immigration at
the University of Houston.

"There's almost nothing as difficult and painful for a family than not knowing
what happened," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ERIC GAY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Forensic scientist Lori Baker examines clothing she believes belonged to a boy
whose body was found near the Rio Grande.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 24, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH AND FOX MEND FENCES;
NEXT, THE BORDER
THEY MUST FACE REALITY OF JOBS AND IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 552 words


It's a good idea for quarreling couples to meet in neutral places and talk
things over, maybe even kiss and make up. Bangkok would be nice.

That's where Presidents George W. Bush and Vicente Fox met earlier this month
to, among other things, jump-start a new immigration deal between the United
States and Mexico.

They hadn't met in a year. Before Sept. 11, 2001, when terrorism knocked legal
immigration off Bush's agenda, the two presidents had made more cross-border
trips than Mexican movie star Salma Hayek.

Now that Bush and Fox have reconciled, we need to face some realities on both
sides of the political divide over immigration. We need to admit that we need
these workers and that we need to get control of the border. We need a pipeline
of labor from Mexico, one that will discourage illegal immigration once and for
all. Here are some ideas:

* AMNESTY: Why legalize an estimated 3.4 million illegal immigrants? After all,
didn't they break the law, pure and simple? Yes, but the law is a result of
dumb, shortsighted immigration policies. We need these laborers now and will
need more in the future as the American labor force grows older and public
education improves. There isn't a single school principal in the country who
wants students to become the best janitors or busboys in America.

* GUEST WORKERS: Be careful. The last time we tried this with the old bracero
program decades ago, thousands of them were deported prematurely andthen they
returned as illegal immigrants. Any guest worker program would have to protect
American workers from unfair competition, fill labor shortages only where they
exist, guarantee decent wages and workplace safety, and offer permanent
residency or citizenship to some of them.

* A SPECIAL DEAL WITH MEXICO: Amnesty and guest worker visas should apply to
immigrants from any country, but there should be a more generous and long-range
deal with Mexico. In the long run, our most important foreign relationship is
with Mexico. We aren't just neighbors. Our two nations are married by history,
territory and blood, and there is no divorce.

Both men understand that special relationship. Bush is from the big, flat state
of Texas, which shares a long history and border with Mexico. Fox's native
Guanajuato is a mining, ranching and industrial state with direct ties to the
United States. Both men fancy themselves cowboys from regions that value
entrepreneurship, rugged individualism and freedom from the federales.

Say what you will about their conservatism, both Bush and Fox understand that
illegal immigrants practice a form of individualism as rugged as it gets, and
that business always looks for labor at the right cost.

Mexican workers will continue to move north in search of jobs, and American
investment dollars will continue to flow south in search of profits because
that's how it's been for at least 150 years. For better or worse, we're building
a new North America with an even more integrated economy and bicultural towns
and societies hundreds of miles inside each country.

Two years after Sept. 11, Mexico and the United States are ready to kiss and
make up, but can we meet somewhere closer to home next time? Given that any
immigration deal with Mexico would still be a huge gamble, Las Vegas would be
nice.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: CHARLES DHARAPAK -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Fox and President Bush make up at the Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Bangkok.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 4, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SERVING AMERICA AS A GI ILLEGALLY;
AMERICANIZED SOLDIER BECOMES A SCAPEGOAT

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 495 words


Pvt. Juan Escalante is an Army mechanic who repaired Humvees and tanks under
threat of ambush in Iraq. He guarded prisoners of war in Iraq, and his comrades
in the Third Infantry Division gave him a combat patch, recognizing his bravery.

Escalante is also an illegal immigrant whose parents carried him across the
border when he was 4 years old. At 19, he bought a fake green card for $50 on
the streets of Seattle to enlist in the Army. His motivation was the same as
thousands of other young men and women who enlisted before and after we declared
war on terrorism.

'Money for college'

"Mainly, I wanted to join for college because I needed money for college,"
Escalante recently told National Public Radio.

Pvt. Escalante's parents' application for legal status triggered a paper chase
that led to him. Now he is in a holding pattern at Fort Stewart, in Georgia,
while the Army decides his fate.

It's obvious that this young man is a thoroughly Americanized soldier, but he's
also become a scapegoat for advocates of stricter immigration policies or
extreme anti-terrorist measures -- or both.

Mark Krikorian, a spokesman for the Center for Immigration Studies, told
National Public Radio: "If illegal immigrants who managed to sneak into the
military are automatically given green cards, that creates an enormous incentive
for people to buy fraudulent documents and try to enlist in the military."

The specter of one illegal immigrant joining the military has sparked the
imagination of some national security worrywarts. They see a small army of
terrorists joining to learn combat tactics and lethal skills or to get their
hands on explosives.

They all need to calm down.

To begin with, nobody knows how many illegal immigrants are serving in the
military. We know there are 37,000 non-citizens serving, but it's not clear how
many are undocumented.

Most adult illegal immigrants I've met -- and I've met a lot -- avoid any
contact with U.S. authorities. Only the most assimilated ones would dare to
enlist, in which case we don't have to worry about them being graduates of
fanatical, anti-American religious schools or terrorist cells in the Middle East
or Asia.

To the Army's credit, it isn't in a hurry to give Escalante the boot.

"He has served us honorably but enlisted under false pretenses," a high-ranking
officer said. "The Army is between a rock and a hard place, legally."

Chance to qualify

For now, the Army is looking at Escalante's case individually. That's how it
works in the civilian world, where illegal immigrants who have been found out
still get a chance to qualify for legal status. The fact that Escalante was only
a child when he arrived and then served admirably during the war in Iraq argues
in his favor.

Meanwhile, the military needs to fix an obvious failure in background checks. If
they can't detect fake green cards, how can we expect them to find the real
terrorists lurking in the shadows?

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 7, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ALWAYS LOW WAGES;
EXPLOITATION OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IS EVERYWHERE

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 578 words


Now we know why Wal-Mart's motto is "Always low prices."

It's much easier to beat the competition's prices when you don't employ your own
janitors, and the contractors you depend on to clean your stores have the nasty
habit of hiring and exploiting illegal immigrants from Mexico and Eastern
Europe.

Immigration cops last month raided 61 Wal-Mart stores, arrested 245 illegal
workers and then hauled company executives and janitorial contractors into
court. The feds are trying to make an example of Wal-Mart. Fine, but we know
who's going to pay the highest price.

"The chief manager of our store knew what was going on," said Pavel, a Czech who
was deported almost immediately and later talked to the New York Times. "He knew
that we were illegal."

Pavel's story appears typical for the Eastern Europeans: Recruiters at home
promised good jobs in America only to deliver them into the hands of
subcontractors, who allegedly violated overtime, Social Security and worker's
compensation laws.

If nothing else, the Wal-Mart raids let us know that illegal immigration isn't
all about Mexican and Central American border jumpers.

Listen to one cleaning subcontractor, Stanislaw Kostek, who admitted to the
Times that he had hired illegal immigrants to work at about a dozen Wal-Marts:
"It's a degrading job; very few people want to do it even though the salary is
at least $2 above the minimum wage. . . . But there are (immigrant) workers who
want to do the job."

I can remember when companies employed their own janitors and paid them enough
to purchase homes and have their children's teeth examined every six months.
Contracting out has become a cost-cutting business practice, and it's turned a
blue-collar job for American citizens into a tool for the exploitation of
foreign workers.

In all the crusades against illegal immigration, we've seen plenty of
dishwashers, nannies and janitors packed into buses or airplanes and sent home.

It wasn't until 1986 that it became a crime to knowingly hire undocumented
workers, but it's difficult to make the charges stick. Ignorance is easy to
fake. The case against Wal-Mart appears to be stronger than most because
prosecutors say they have wiretap recordings of Wal-Mart officials spilling the
beans.

As much as I'd cheer a conviction in this case, prosecuting more unscrupulous
companies and contractors would merely balance the punishment between employers
and illegal workers. Going after these high-profile prosecutions won't solve the
problem any more than raiding garment sweatshops.

That's because the vast majority of an estimated 3.4 million illegal workers in
the United States don't work for high-profile companies. What industry employs
one of the highest percentages of the undocumented workers? Domestic services!

Why not bust thousands of middle-class adults who employ undocumented nannies
and gardeners? Then we go after the small restaurants, construction companies,
beauty shops and strawberry farms. Yeah, right.

The rapidly aging American population means we'll need more immigrant workers in
the future, not less. We need a new immigration policy that will allow many more
unskilled immigrant workers to come here -- particularly from Mexico -- because
Mexican immigrants are already established in our culture and economy.

Sure, wages and prices would rise, but probably not much. Wal-Mart's new motto
could be: "Always low prices, just not as low as before."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 2, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS LOSE RIGHT TO DRIVE IN ASSEMBLY VOTE

BYLINE: KATE FOLMAR AND ANN E. MARIMOW, Mercury News Sacramento, Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 738 words


Fulfilling one of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's big promises, the Assembly on
Monday completed a swift legislative about-face and voted overwhelmingly to
repeal the unpopular law that would have let illegal immigrants obtain
California driver's licenses.

Schwarzenegger, who plans to sign the repeal midweek, for the first time Monday
vowed to work with the law's author on a new measure that would include tougher
security provisions. Democrats who voted to repeal the law said they were
trusting Schwarzenegger's word that he would negotiate a compromise bill.

"There is some merit" to allowing undocumented immigrants to obtain licenses, he
said in an interview Monday. "But it should be done the right way" -- allowing
for background checks and making sure the drivers can get insurance.

In the face of opposition from the governor and voters, the Assembly reversed
the law, 64-9, after a brief floor debate observed by a phalanx of television
cameras. The vote came a week after the Senate unanimously repealed the law.

The Democrat-controlled Legislature's move to reverse itself less than three
months after passing the original law was prompted partly by the threat of a
March ballot initiative.

Republicans argued Monday that without tougher security measures, the law would
"denigrate the security of our most important form of identification," said
Assemblyman John Benoit, R-Riverside.

The original law's author, Democratic state Sen. Gilbert Cedillo of Los Angeles,
said he intends to hammer out a compromise -- using the repealed law as a
framework -- with the governor and present it to his colleagues in January.

"I know on my side that I can count on the support of my colleagues," he said
after the debate. "He'll have to gin up votes on his side."

The law, which was to take effect Jan. 1, would have affected an estimated 2
million illegal immigrants who drive in California without a license or
insurance. It would have allowed an illegal immigrant to use a federal taxpayer
identification number to apply for a California driver's license.

Until 1994, illegal immigrants were allowed to apply for a license if they
showed a valid Social Security number.

Former Gov. Gray Davis signed the measure during the recall campaign in what
some viewed as an attempt to shore up Latino votes.

Schwarzenegger hammered the theme of repealing the law during the campaign. He
made it one of his top 10 priorities for his first 100 days in office.

In the interview Monday, Schwarzenegger said of Cedillo, "We have an
understanding. That's why I think he was very gracious" in helping engineer the
repeal.

Cedillo has introduced license laws repeatedly over the years, trying to fulfill
a promise to his dying wife that he would make the roads safer for all
Californians. The Assembly finally passed his bill in September, and the Senate
followed suit. Davis, who signed the measure into law, had twice before vetoed
the legislation because he said it did not contain the kinds of safeguards that
Schwarzenegger and Cedillo have mentioned.

After Schwarzenegger was elected, Cedillo opted for pragmatism over sentiment
and wound up lobbying against his own handiwork to stave off a less palatable
ballot measure. A conservative group had collected more than 300,000 signatures
toward placing a measure to repeal the license law on the March ballot. With
Monday's vote, the group announced its drive had ended.

Not all Democrats were sanguine about the turn of events. Several said they were
voting reluctantly for the repeal at Cedillo's urging.

Voting no were Bay Area lawmakers Wilma Chan of Oakland, Loni Hancock ofBerkeley
and Leland Yee of San Francisco; not voting were Manny Diaz and Sally Lieber of
San Jose and Gene Mullin of San Mateo. All are Democrats.

Democratic Assemblywoman Jackie Goldberg, a Los Angeles liberal who cast one of
the few no votes, could not mask her disappointment as her colleagues filed out
of the chambers. But she said she would support next year's iteration of the
bill.

"Constituents of mine have been calling in tears for the last two weeks, saying,
'Finally, we can get a license, get insurance and not worry every moment of
every day that when we're taking our kids to school we'll be arrested and get
deported,' " she said. "They live in terror.

"I understand why my colleagues voted the way they did," she said. "I just
couldn't do it."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: DRIVER'S LICENSE REVERSAL
Mercury News Staff Writer Mark Gladstone contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 3, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPOSAL TIES LEGAL STATUS TO BENEFITS;
AGENCIES WOULD BE REQUIRED TO REJECT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: CRYSTAL CARREON AND TRACY KAPLAN, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 459 words


A day before the governor is to repeal an unpopular law that would have allowed
illegal immigrants to apply for California driver's licenses, state officials
Tuesday announced that a grass-roots group could begin petitioning for a measure
to ban public benefits -- including driver's licenses -- to those who could not
prove their legal status in the country.

Save Our State, the organization that spearheaded Proposition 187, is now
floating a new proposal to curtail public benefits to the estimated 2.2 million
illegal immigrants in California.

Author Ron Prince seeks to amend the state constitution and require officials
to:

* Confirm the legal status of immigrants before providing them with public
services.

* Report transgressors to federal authorities, or risk facing a misdemeanor
charge.

* Verify the identity and legal status of a driver's license applicant.

Proponents must gather 598,105 signatures by April 29 to try to qualify the
measure for the November ballot.

Efforts to reach Save Our State late Tuesday were unsuccessful.

Carol Joyal, who chairs the Immigration Reform Network of Silicon Valley, said
she agrees with the initiative in principle, but is concerned about how it could
be applied.

"We don't want our state or federal government to give benefits to encourage
people who are not legal to stay: Section 8 housing, college tuition, driver's
licenses, to name a few, should go to people who are here lawfully," Joyal said.
"But I'm unclear on how the reporting would work."

Even a few critics of the recent effort to allow illegal immigrants to apply for
driver's licenses said the proposed initiative seemed overly broad.

Immigration advocates denounced the proposal, saying it would not pass political
or legal scrutiny in a state where slightly more than half of the people are not
white.

"This is Proposition 187 revisited," said Tanya Broder, an attorney with the Los
Angeles-based National Immigration Law Center. "But we're not the same state we
were in the early 1990s; the demographics have shifted."

Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative that courts have largely overturned, would
have denied public education and some health and social services to illegal
immigrants.

The latest measure would hold officials criminally liable for failing to report
immigration violations. Broder said the courts have already found such a move
unconstitutional.

The proposal also does not provide funding for the new tracking
responsibilities. The Legislative Analyst's Office found that it would cost tens
of millions of dollars to verify citizenship or immigration status, though
counties and other agencies could save more than $100 million by not providing
services, such as health care.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 11, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

VOTE FOR NON-CITIZENS URGED;
4.6 MILLION CALIFORNIANS WOULD BE AFFECTED, STUDY SAYS

BYLINE: GILLIAN FLACCUS, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A UCLA study released Wednesday says the state constitution should be amended so
California's 4.6 million non-citizen adults can vote in local elections.

Nearly one-fifth of the state's adults are non-citizens, and in 12 cities, they
form the majority, according to the study, which was commissioned by UCLA's
Chicano Studies Research Center. "Non-citizens" included both legal and illegal
immigrants.

The study also found that non-citizens make up more than one-quarter of the
population in 85 California cities and that 28 percent of the state's
non-citizens are Latino.

"It's really a harbinger of things to come, and unless we start to address this
issue, we're going to have a political apartheid in California," said Joaquin
Avila, the study's author and an instructor at UCLA law school.

The study, based on 2000 census data, comes a week after Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger repealed a law that would have allowed illegal immigrants to
obtain driver's licenses.

Proponents of restricted immigration reacted angrily, saying the study
undermined the legal process for naturalization and essentially sanctioned
illegal immigration.

"The distinction between citizens and non-citizens has been seriously eroded
over the past generations, and the only difference left is the ability to vote.
That's not a trivial thing," said Mark Krikorian, executive directorof the
Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C.

"A person who isn't a citizen yet is essentially shacking up with America. It's
important to the health of the body politic that that difference be preserved."

Avila said the proposed amendment would not mandate the vote for non-citizens,
but would let local governments allow it if they choose. Any constitutional
amendment would have to go to voters.

Audrey Singer, an immigration expert with the Brookings Institution in
Washington, D.C., said cities and school boards in some states -- including
Maryland, Illinois and New York -- already allow non-citizens to vote in local
elections.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2003

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 12/13/03, pg. 2A)
An article on Thursday's California & the West page about a UCLA study
recommending that non-citizens be allowed to vote in local elections erroneously
reported demographic data. The story should have said that 28 percent of
Hispanics in California are not U.S. citizens.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               January 21, 2004 Wednesday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

JUDGE USES LIGHT TOUCH ON SPANISH-SPEAKING DAY;
IMMIGRANT DRIVING ISSUE PLAYS OUT WEEKLY IN COURTROOM
AS POLITICIANS DEBATE THE QUESTION OF WHETHER UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS SHOULD
HAVE LICENSES, THE REALITIES OF THE ISSUE ARE ILLUSTRATED EVERY TUESDAY.

BYLINE: JESSIE SEYFER, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 956 words


Every Tuesday in a crowded Palo Alto courtroom, one of the most contentious
political issues in the state plays out calmly, without hysterics or debates.

This is northern Santa Clara County's Spanish-speaking traffic court, and most
of the offenses are uncontroversial -- running a red light, speeding, even
driving too slowly.

But because many of the defendants who go before court Commissioner James Madden
on these days are undocumented immigrants, and because about a third on a given
day have been charged with driving without a license, what happens reflects a
central issue of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's first months in office.

As Sacramento politicians try to resolve the question of whether undocumented
immigrants should have licenses, Madden sees the people behind the issue every
Tuesday. Their mundane stories contrast to the often fiery political rhetoric.

On a recent Tuesday morning, about 50 defendants sat in Madden's court, most of
them men, and most dressed casually in jeans and jackets. Twenty-four-year-old
Maria Aguilar Vasquez of Mountain View, an undocumented immigrant, stepped
before Madden. Vasquez had been pulled over a couple of months earlier for not
stopping for a red light, and police discovered that she did not have a license.
Her car was impounded.

"Are you eligible for a license?" Madden asked through an interpreter.

Vasquez smiled shyly and said no. She then explained that her first appointment
with immigration officials was scheduled for March.

Madden rescheduled her hearing on the charge for March, dispatching her with a
friendly, "Bring me back a license."

Changes in law

Until a 1994 law banned the practice, undocumented immigrants could obtain
California driver's licenses legally. In September, in a move some say was a
desperate attempt to woo Latino voters, a recall-bound Gov. Gray Davis signed a
bill making it once again legal.

The bill, though unpopular in polls, would have become law Jan. 1 and would have
affected about 2 million non-citizens who live and drive in the state.
Schwarzenegger, during his campaign, pledged to repeal the law, and when he took
office, the state Legislature did just that.

Now lawmakers and Schwarzenegger are working to develop a compromise to appease
those who believe hardworking undocumented immigrants deserve to drive legally,
and those who feel legal licenses are a risky reward for people who are already
breaking the law.

At Palo Alto's courthouse, Madden speaks with a grandfatherly voice and seems to
treat those charged with unlicensed driving with the same regard as he does the
legal drivers who run red lights. As a state court judge, Madden is not
empowered to deport anyone. Most defendants plead no contest to their charges
and pay a fine or are given more time to resolve their charges.

"I just think that everybody in traffic court deserves to be treated with
respect," Madden said of his manner. "That's the bottom line. . . . They're not
criminals. For a lot of people this is their only exposure to court, and that's
why we try to make it user-friendly."

Madden declined to talk specifically about the unlicensed-driver debate, saying
judicial ethics rules prevent him from discussing political matters.

An October Field Poll showed that 59 percent of California voters disapproved of
allowing undocumented immigrants to obtain driver's licenses. That prevailing
opinion is why Mike Spence, president of the conservative California Republican
Assembly group, led an effort to fight the bill and to bring the issue before
voters.

Plain and simple, he said, illegal immigrants are breaking the law by working in
this country and should not be rewarded with driver's licenses.

"We shouldn't grant a legal document that could be used as a form of
identification in voting, buying guns, all kinds of things in California," he
said.

Giving California driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants also presents a
security risk, Spence said, because there aren't thorough background checks on
immigrants' criminal pasts. Other opponents have raised similar concerns.

Spence's organization opposes a compromise bill that would address the security
concerns while making it possible for illegal immigrants to get licenses and be
tested for driving safety.

A 1997 study by Department of Motor Vehicles researchers found unlicensed
drivers are 4.9 times more likely to be involved in a fatal crash.

At least one local police officer is uneasy with the current law.

Sympathetic officer

Palo Alto police officer Dan Ryan has arrested many unlicensed and undocumented
drivers in his more than 20 years on the force. But he believes most are
hardworking and poor, and are penalized for doing the state's most undesirable
jobs.

"If they're a legitimate hazard on the road, I have no problem at all towing
their car," he said. "But a lot of times, these people have two jobs and are
just trying to drive back and forth to work."

Lucina Maldonado, 36, an undocumented immigrant and mother of three living in
Mountain View, said she understands that driving is a privilege, not a right.
But she felt a sinking disappointment when she heard Davis' law had been
repealed.

"The other governor promised us a license," she said. "It was almost in our
hands."

Maldonado, who also appeared recently in Madden's court, has been taking the bus
to get to her housecleaning jobs since her arrest for driving withouta license.
She can't afford the $1,200 fee to get her car out of impound.

"I don't earn that much in a month," she said.

She has started to look for a used car, which she considers a necessity for
work. "That's why most of us came here," she said, "to look for work."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ALSO RAN: page 1B, Morning Final edition
Mercury News Staff Writer Truong Phuoc Khanh contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: LEN VAUGHN-LAHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Ruth Tarnopolsky, center, translates for a man appearing before Commissioner
James Madden during the weekly session set aside for Spanish-speakers charged
with traffic infractions, about one-third of them for driving without a license.

PHOTO: LEN VAUGHN-LAHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Outside the courtroom, Jesus Rivas Lopez examines an order to obtain insurance.
The judge says he tries to be respectful and helpful.
PHOTO: LEN VAUGHN-LAHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Every Tuesday, Commissioner James Madden's courtroom is crowded with
Spanish-speaking people with minor traffic infractions. Madden says he tries to
make the experience "user-friendly."

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

             February 24, 2004 Tuesday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

VIGILS FOR TWO SLAIN WOMEN STIR CRITICISM;
DEBATE FOCUSES ON PROS, CONS OF IMMIGRANT DRIVER'S LICENSES

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 540 words


The unsolved slayings of two women violently attacked while walking to work
through a Fremont neighborhood earlier this month has become a rallying cry for
supporters of a movement to allow illegal immigrants the right to obtain
driver's licenses.

But license opponents accuse them of memorializing the victims, who were living
in the country illegally, for the wrong reasons.

Immigrant-rights groups have staged three vigils to promote their political
cause since Feb. 1, the morning a man wielding a tree branch beat to death Maria
Esperanza Hernandez, 39, and her daughter, Maria del Carmen Castillo Hernandez,
19.

The most recent vigil Thursday was attended by state Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los
Angeles, the author of a controversial license law that was repealed last year.

Many of the nearly 100 participants who marched along Fremont Boulevard with
Cedillo -- chanting Spanish phrases like "What do we want?" "Licenses." "When do
we want them?" "Now!" -- say they are certain that the victims would still be
alive had they had licenses and been able to drive to work.

"What happened to these two women wasn't right," said Ramon Correa, 55, an auto
mechanic who marched with the crowd. "We need the laws to change, for the good
of all of us."

But connecting the deaths to the license law is rankling those who oppose the
granting of licenses to undocumented immigrants.

"They're exploiting somebody's death," said Al Figone, 53, a San Jose salesman
who is critical of any legislation to allow illegal immigrants to legally drive.
"It's a political thing, it needs to be resolved on a political level."

A law that would have permitted illegal immigrants to apply for driver's
licenses, SB 60, was passed by the Legislature and signed by Gov. Gray Davis
last year. But, deemed unpopular by the majority of Californians, the
Legislature in December reversed itself and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger kept his
campaign promise to repeal the pending law.

Cedillo and the governor's staff have since been negotiating a new measure.

Many opponents of the license movement, like Figone, only recently learned about
the vigils, which are broadcast primarily by Spanish-language television.

They say they are disgusted by the tactic.

"It just doesn't seem morally or ethically correct to take an unfortunate
circumstance and twist the story to the point where it politicizes an agenda for
something," said Robert Barelli, 30, a Sunnyvale schoolteacher.

Cedillo, in an interview at the vigil, said anybody who accuses him of political
grandstanding is taking a "cynical perspective" of the deaths. "Do we know for
sure that but for this law, that this situation wouldn't have happened? We
don't. But we do know for sure it did happen, and it happened under these
circumstances."

But some participants at the vigil, organized by immigrant rights group
Voluntarios de la Comunidad, a San Jose-based organization, acknowledged that
politics plays a role in promoting their cause.

"Maybe we've drifted a little, and I have a conscience to say that," said Blanca
Estela Villegas, a 34-year-old hotel banquet supervisor who wore a bandanna of
the U.S. flag as head covering. "But," she added, "What are we supposed to do?"

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ALSO RAN: page 1B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 5, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE DEPORTATION GAME;
YANA SLOBODOVA DESERVED TO STAY, BUT YOU NEVER SEE THIS KIND OF SYMPATHETIC
PRESS COVERAGE FOR A MEXICAN MOM

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 700 words


In most respects, Yana Slobodova wasn't your typical illegal alien when the feds
shipped her back to Russia the other day.

The white, middle-class piano teacher was married to a naturalized American
citizen. They have a 22-month-old baby boy, born in the U.S.A. The students at
the music school where she taught rallied to her defense. A Jewish group in the
San Francisco Bay Area vouched for her character. However, nothing worked.

She had admitted using false papers to enter this country, and in a
hyper-defensive, post-Sept. 11 America, that means she forfeited any right to
return.

"They are going to send me away from my family because I was stupid eight years
ago," Slobodova told the Mercury News at the airport. Then she was gone.

I've got nothing against the poor woman. Slobodova deserved to stay. It's
criminal to separate a good mother from her child. More importantly, she was the
kind of decent, hard-working illegal immigrant who'd make a great citizen, if
given a chance. And anyone who thinks this would open the floodgates to
conniving, foreign women -- all wanting to get pregnant and get a green card --
is wrong and swept up in hysteria.

But certain aspects of this story rankle me. Illegal-immigrant Mexican women
with U.S-born children don't get this kind of sympathetic press. The unbalanced
coverage reminds me of what usually happens when a child dies tragically in a
wealthy suburb and a similar thing happens in a poor barrio or ghetto. Guess
which one gets on Page One or prime-time news?

So we shouldn't be surprised if more than a few Americans blame the big, bad
government for hammering a deserving, white immigrant while giving the brown
invaders a free pass. As one letter-writer put it:

"We deport a Caucasian, married mother who thought she had entered this country
legally, and who apparently is not a drain on this country's social services,"
she wrote. "Yet there are thousands of illegal immigrant Mexican men, who have
made no attempt to enter this country legally, standing around in front of every
home improvement store, every large hardware store, hoping for a day's work, and
they are invisible to the authorities."

Never mind that the government deported 108,643 Mexican nationals in 2002. I've
been writing about immigration long enough to know she's not the only one who
thinks this way. But it's hard to dispel such notions given the lack of
information available on who gets deported and who doesn't. I got nowhere when I
called the federal office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE. (Talk
about a cool, fitting acronym).

I wanted to know how many undocumented parents of U.S.-born children were
deported, and I wanted to know their ethnicity and national origin. After all,
ICE arrested exactly 2,057 sexual predators and deported 61,505 criminal aliens
last year. Don't get me wrong. This is what we want the immigration police to
do. I just figured, since they're so good at accounting, they'd keep track of
mommy deportations, too.

"I don't think we keep that kind of statistic," the ICE spokeswoman said. "I'll
pass on the question and maybe someone will get back to you."

While I waited and waited, I called Maria Marroquin. She runs a day-worker
center in Mountain View, the same Silicon Valley town where Slobodova taught
piano. If anyone has a handle on the situation, it's Marroquin.

"Thank God it doesn't happen very frequently," she said. "I can tell you that
when one of the fathers is deported, he returns, obviously under the same system
and maybe under greater risk. As for returning some day with legal papers,
that's financially impossible."

Yana Slobodova may have had more help in her fight to stay, and I can't blame
her for trying, but she's ended up in the same, hopeless situation as the
average, deported Mexican.

So what's a mother to do? Here's an idea, based on the experience of many
deportees: She can book a flight to Mexico, sneak across the Arizona desert,
change her name, live and work in the shadows for a pittance, and pray for
another amnesty for illegal immigrants. Lord knows her son needs her. And
besides, we can always use another piano teacher in this country.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Yana Slobodova starts to cry as she prepares to board a plane at San Francisco
International Airport on Sunday, leaving behind her son and husband.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 26, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EX-INSPECTOR CHARGED WITH SMUGGLING DRUGS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 107 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A former Immigration and Naturalization Service inspector, Michael Taylor of San
Diego, has been indicted on charges that he allowed smugglers to bring more than
a ton of marijuana and perhaps hundreds of illegal immigrants through the lanes
he checked at the U.S.-Mexico border, federal prosecutors announced Tuesday.

U.S. Attorney Carol Lam unveiled an indictment that alleges Taylor and nine
others conspired in a smuggling operation at the San Diego-Tijuana border
crossing from 1998 to mid-2001.

Prosecutors say the suspects used text-messaging pagers and cell phones to tell
smugglers which inspection lane Taylor was operating.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 10, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROGRAM RESPONDS TO BORDER-TOWN CONCERNS;
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO BE FLOWN HOME UNDER U.S. PLAN

BYLINE: LYNN BREZOSKY, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: HARLINGEN, Texas


Illegal immigrants from Mexico caught in the Arizona desert will be offered free
flights home under a proposal approved Wednesday by the Homeland Security
Department.

The plan replaces a program started last year in which immigrants were flown to
Texas border cities so they would be deported far from Arizona. That program
moved 6,000 Mexicans, but Texas mayors balked, saying the government was
shifting Arizona's problem their way.

The new program could begin as soon as this week and will run through September.

It will offer immigrants airline tickets to Mexico City or Guadalajara, then bus
tickets to their homes. If they refuse, they will be deported through the
nearest Arizona border crossing, not through Texas.

Homeland Security official Bill Strassberger said the free-flight program was
designed to save lives by helping to break the cycle of immigrants who try to
return to the United States shortly after being deported.

In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 154 immigrants died in the Arizona
desert.

Sending illegal immigrants to cities deeper inside Mexico had been discussed for
years, but the Mexican government was reluctant to participate. Mayors of cities
on the Mexican side of the Texas border complained that migrants were dumped in
their communities without money for food or transportation.

A similar program failed in the 1990s because most immigrants declined to take
the flights and chose instead to be deported near the border.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 2, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHICH STATE GETS THE IMPORTANCE OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS?;
KERRY AND BUSH COULD LEARN SOMETHING FROM . . . TENNESSEE

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9C

LENGTH: 596 words


Note to John Kerry, George W. Bush and, while we're at it, let's cc Arnold
Schwarzenegger:

Everybody thinks Al Gore isn't president today because he lost Florida four
years ago. Wrong! He lost because he lost Tennessee, his home state. Had the
Wooden One stuck closer to home he might have carried Missouri or Kentucky, too.
So pay attention to what's happening in Tennessee.

Tennessee has decided to allow illegal immigrants to drive legally.

Not California, home to half of the nation's estimated 4 million or 6 million or
8 million undocumented immigrants. Not Texas, New York, Arizona or any other
popular port of entry for future dishwashers, nannies, drywallers and gardeners.

I once drove across the entire Volunteer state, which takes a whole day. Not
once did anyone complain to me about illegal immigrants. I get that all the time
in California, where they're blamed for everything from freeway congestion to
sinking the schools. I had no idea the undocumented had found their way to
Tennessee. Gives new meaning to the term "border state."

But they are more realistic and practical about the problem in Tennessee.
Lawmakers there recently approved the "certificate of driving" for peoplewho
can't prove they're U.S. citizens or lawful, permanent residents.

"I don't think there was ever the intention to round up every illegal (resident)
in the state," said state Sen. Bill Ketron, a Republican. "We don't have enough
jail space for that."

After weighing the pros -- illegal immigrants work grunt jobs nobody else wants,
jobs they can't get to on public transportation because there isn't enough
public transportation . . .

And after weighing the cons -- rewarding these lawbreakers insults legal
immigrants, dilutes American citizenship and encourages terrorists to masquerade
as illegal immigrants . . .

Tennessee decided on a wonderful compromise: A certificate of driving that can't
be used for formal identification. For example, it can't be used for buying an
airline ticket. At least for now, the insurance lobby isn't sold on the idea.
But don't worry. It'll come around once the companies see that illegal
immigrants don't drive any better or worse and that there's money in it.

A similar proposal by California Gov. Schwarzenegger to put a distinct mark on
state driver's licenses ran into a liberal wall recently. Some worried it
smacked of the Stars of David that Jews were forced to wear in Nazi Germany, or
would lead hospitals and other public institutions to treat the undocumented or
their children differently.

What this over-the-top fear doesn't account for are other forms of
identification available to the undocumented, especially the IDs available from
foreign consulates.

Personally, I'd give illegal immigrants regular driver's licenses so long as
they pass stiffer background checks than we give to postal workers.

A few months ago, I rode around town with an illegal immigrant. She told me it
didn't matter what kind of driver's permit she could get so long as she could
drive legally and buy auto insurance.

So far, Democratic candidate John Kerry opposes giving driving privileges to
illegal immigrants because "that defeats the purpose of the law." OK, so does
letting illegal immigrant children stay in school, but we aren't cruel enough to
throw them out. To my knowledge, President Bush hasn't clearly stated his
position on undocumented driving.

I know what question I'd ask Kerry and Bush during their upcoming debates: Do
you know what's happening in Tennessee, and do you agree or disagree?

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ'S column appears on Tuesday and Friday.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 13, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TO SOLVE IMMIGRATION PROBLEM, START BY PUNISHING EMPLOYERS;
BOYCOTT STRAWBERRIES, TOO, IF YOU CAN, AND RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 661 words


When it comes to illegal immigration, I try to limit myself to one column a
month. On second thought, what's the point?

Every time I write one, the anti-illegal immigration crowd floods me with e-mail
and phone calls, all saying the same thing. Here's a sampling of the typical
responses I received recently.

A man who immigrated here legally and now lives in Los Angeles wrote last week:
"Breaking immigration laws is a crime, therefore these invaders are criminals!"

Criminal is a bit harsh, but remember that we granted amnesty to about 3 million
of these criminals 20 years ago. As a group, they have turned out just fine as
legal residents or citizens.

A San Jose reader wrote: "Instead of blaming the United States for the
immigrant's plight, why not place the blame on the countries where these people
are coming from?"

That's a great idea. Then we can proceed according to a fellow from Cincinnati,
who wrote: "The simple way to deal with illegals is an old-fashioned round-up
and ship them back to where they came from and send the bill for the cost to the
government of the country to which they were returned."

I'm sure Mexico and the others would gladly write the checks, after they pay off
their international loans and the cost of correcting the free-market,
globalization reforms that eliminated jobs and drove millions to come here.

A woman from Sacramento said: "If illegals were deported and those jobs vacated,
our governments could train citizens."

Assuming there are enough chronically unemployed Americans willing to pick
cotton in Texas and apples in Washington state, or strawberries in Watsonville.
I don't think they'd last a day in the fields, even if we required American
farmers and agribusiness to hire them.

And just in case I didn't hear the question the first time, a San Jose gentleman
asked it again, "What part of 'illegal' do you not understand?"

There are endless arguments surrounding illegal immigration, from overwhelming
our schools to threatening the English language and American wayof life, but
none has come close to solving the problem.

Previous efforts to throw illegal immigrant children out of school, turn nurses
into immigration cops, and herd sweatshop workers into Border Patrol vans have
proven to be unconstitutional or downright useless.

Seems to me that what the anti-undocumented lobby needs is a new agenda most
Americans can stomach and support. Here are four to start with:

* Tougher laws and punishment, maybe even a three-strikes law, for employers of
illegal immigrants. For all the blame placed on undocumented workers,
authorities rarely go after the unscrupulous companies, contractors and
penny-pinching homeowners who hire them. Repeat offenders should do jail time
and have their property confiscated and sold at auction.

* Bring back the boycott! Don't buy products, such as strawberries, known to be
produced by large numbers of undocumented workers. Boycott stores that hire
illegal immigrants. Thousands and thousands of Americans are willing to man the
picket lines. They only need to be organized, and be willing to go hungry.

* Find out how many able-bodied, unemployed Americans are truly willing to
replace undocumented workers. Then we cut a new immigration deal with Mexico and
other countries to fill in the gap.

* Raise the national minimum wage to at least $14 an hour. Let's face it,
Americans who take those grunt jobs won't stay long without decent pay and
benefits. Even if the ensuing demand for labor causes wages to rise, it wouldn't
happen fast enough to discourage further illegal immigration or stop some jobs
from disappearing entirely.

It's time somebody advanced the debate, even if it means thinking out loud for
the other guy. I could be hanged by my fellow liberals for helping the
opposition, but I'd rather walk up to the gallows than hear this dead-end
question over and over: "What part of 'illegal' don't you understand?"

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ROGER HORNBACK -- BAKERSFIELD CALIFORNIAN
Francisco Carillo carries his 2-year-old daughter, Mayallahuel, in a United Farm
Workers demonstration Sunday in Bakersfield. More than 200 agriculture workers
joined the march to protest local immigration raids.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 20, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOSPITALS OFFERED FUNDS;
$1 BILLION TIED TO IMMIGRATION QUESTIONS

BYLINE: BARBARA FEDER OSTROV, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 939 words


The federal government is offering a tempting $1 billion to the nation's
hospitals to provide emergency care for illegal immigrants, but there's a catch.

They would have to ask patients: "Are you a U.S. citizen?"

California hospitals would receive $72 million annually for four years, starting
Oct. 1, but some local hospital officials say they probably will turn down the
money. The threat of being questioned about citizenship could keep illegal
immigrants from seeking care, they say, which could compromise public health.

"They'll only get sicker and put other people at risk," said Bob Sillen,
executive director of the Santa Clara Valley Health and Hospital System, which
operates Valley Medical Center.

The money could help hospitals defray the costs of emergency care for
undocumented immigrants, many of whom have no health insurance. But Sillen said
setting up a system to ask patients immigration questions in the emergency room
would be too expensive and burden already busy doctors and nurses with more
paperwork. Unless the requirements change, Sillen said he would ask the county's
board of supervisors to turn down the extra cash.

"You can't do racial profiling," he said. "You'd have to apply the process to
everybody who comes in the doors, and that far outweighs any financial benefit
you receive."

Dr. Bob Norris, chief of emergency medicine at Stanford University Hospital,
said he would turn down the money, although top hospital officials say they're
still undecided.

"As physicians, we all took the Hippocratic oath to care for patients," Norris
said. "To try to add an additional policing function on top of that causes a lot
of concern."

Hospitals have long sought federal aid for the care they provide to thousands of
uninsured Californians, including illegal immigrants. The federal government,
which estimates about 2.2 million illegal immigrants are in California, requires
all hospitals to provide basic emergency care to everyone, regardless of their
insurance coverage or immigration status.

California hospitals in total would receive more than any other state, but
dividing $72 million annually among the state's approximately 450 hospitals
means only an average of $160,000 for each. Hospitals would have to bill the
government for each procedure performed on an illegal immigrant, so some medical
centers could wind up with more money than others.

The California Healthcare Association, a hospital lobbying group, estimates that
the state's hospitals provide $500 million annually in care for illegal
immigrants, but that's "a guesstimate," spokeswoman Jan Emerson said. The group
opposes the citizenship questions.

The federal government says documentation is necessary to ensure that hospitals
use the money for its intended purpose, although the nature of that
documentation -- and the specific questions hospitals would need to ask patients
-- are still under review.

Some of the proposed questions include: Are you a U.S. citizen? Are you a lawful
permanent resident? Do you have a Social Security card?

Arturo Gonzales, 30, said he would hesitate to return to a hospital that asked
him those questions and would advise his family and friends to do the same. As
he waited for a relative outside Valley Medical Center's emergency room,
Gonzales said he came to the United States from Oaxaca illegally six years ago
looking for work.

"If they are going to ask that information," Gonzales said, "people are not
going to come to the hospital because they will think they are going to be
deported."

Wayne Bonser, 56, had a different view.

"As long as the government is not using that information to refuse treatment to
anyone, they are paying the bill and they should know where our money is going,"
said Bonser, a U.S. citizen from Lake Tahoe who was waiting at Valley Medical
Center for his son to finish a rehabilitation session.

Peter Ashkenaz, a spokesman for the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services,
said no questions will be asked until after patients receive care,and patients
can decline to answer.

"Hospitals are already asking these questions," Ashkenaz said, adding that
hospitals often request immigration information to help patients qualify for
government health programs.

Leslie Kelsay, spokeswoman for San Jose Medical Center, said patients often are
asked about their immigration status after an emergency room visit, when social
workers call them at home to see whether they are eligible for Medi-Cal,
California's health care system for the poor.

The company that owns San Jose Medical Center still is considering whether to
accept the federal funds, she said.

"Our ER department is staffed by doctors and nurses," Kelsay said. "This is not
an arm of the Border Patrol."
PROPOSED QUESTIONS
Some of the proposed questions that would be asked of emergency room patients
for hospitals to receive new federal grants to care for illegal immigrants:

* Are you a United States citizen?

* Are you a lawful permanent resident, an alien with a valid and current I-688B
(Employment Authorization Card), or other qualified alien?

* Are you in the United States on a non-immigrant visa (includes students,
tourist, businessman, etc.)?

* Are you a foreign citizen that has been admitted to the U.S. with a 72-hour
border crossing card (i.e., laser visa, Form DSP-150)?

Have you been paroled into the United States for the purpose of receiving
eligible services and have a Form I-94?

Do you have a Social Security Number or health insurance policy number?

Source: U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Veronica Torrejon contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 26, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY: ILLEGAL MIGRANTS COST $10 BILLION A YEAR

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 78 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Illegal immigrants cost the federal government more than $10 billion a year, and
a program to legalize them would nearly triple the figure, a study released
Wednesday said.

The analysis by the Center for Immigration Studies, which opposes efforts to
legalize the estimated 8 million to 12 million undocumented immigrants in the
United States, comes as Republicans are bracing for a fight over immigration at
their national convention next week in New York.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 26, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOSPITALS AREN'T IMMIGRATION COPS;
THERE ARE BETTER WAYS TO STAUNCH EMERGENCY ROOMS' FISCAL BLEEDING

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 339 words


More than 80 percent of hospital emergency rooms in California lose money. A
prime reason is that federal law requires hospitals to foot the bill to treat
illegal immigrants who land in their emergency rooms without health insurance.
Estimates of the annual cost to California hospitals run from $200 million to
$500 million. That's why hospitals that rejected the federal government's $72
million effort to alleviate the problem deserve extra kudos.

The feds' intentions were good. But their solution would turn ER receptionists
into enforcers for immigration officials -- a non-starter.

They are demanding that for hospitals to receive any of the funds, the hospitals
would have to ask all patients if they were in the United States legally.

Talk about bad medicine. For openers, that would force hospitals to enter the
policing business, which they are wisely loath to do. It would also encourage
illegal aliens to delay treating potentially contagious or risky diseases that
could become more costly if left untreated. Finally, it adds additional
paperwork at already overburdened emergency rooms struggling to provide
first-rate care.

The California Healthcare Association, a hospital lobbying group, opposes the
requirement. And officials at Stanford Hospital and Valley Medical Center have
said they would encourage their hospitals to reject the funds.

Better alternatives exist to reimburse hospitals for providing care to illegal
immigrants. The federal government could launch a study to estimate the costs
absorbed by hospitals in each state. Or it could hand out the money to each
state to pay for additional urgent care clinics, which would reduce the number
of ER visits and encourage cheaper, preventive medicine.

Just last week another Southern California hospital closed its doors due to
bankruptcy. All told, six ERs in Los Angeles County have closed in the past two
years and 65 ERs have shut down in the state over the past 10 years.

Congress needs to get on this problem. "Stat!"

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 28, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LICENSE BILL OK'D ON HECTIC LAST DAY;
VETO EXPECTED FOR MEASURE TO LET ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DRIVE

BYLINE: KATE FOLMAR AND ANN E. MARIMOW, Mercury News Sacramento, Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1037 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Daring Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to follow through on a promised veto,
lawmakers on the final day of the legislative session approved a contentious
measure that would allow up to 2 million undocumented immigrants to apply for
California driver's licenses.

Hyped on sugar and wistful about the last work day for departing lawmakers,
legislators made a final push through hundreds of bills affecting everything
from mandatory paper trails for electronic voting systems to guaranteed rest
breaks for hotel maids.

And, in a rare, effusive gesture, Schwarzenegger strode into thegold-filigreed
Senate chambers Friday afternoon to give a send-off to nine departing senators.
He came bearing gifts for his friend and sometime adversary, gruff Senate leader
John Burton, who is retiring because of term limits. Schwarzenegger presented
Burton with a black bomber jacket emblazoned with the governor's seal and the
state seal, as well as a script titled "Into the Bleeping Sunset," a play on the
senator's frequently coarse language.

"My father-in-law said to me always that being a public servant is the greatest
profession that you can have. He's right," said Schwarzenegger. "I want to thank
all of you for your hard work and for working with me. I've learned a lot from
all of you."

Because of term limits, Friday was also the last day for 38-year veteran Sen.
John Vasconcellos, D-San Jose, and Sen. Byron Sher, D-San Jose, a legislator for
24 years.

Driver's licenses

Minutes after Schwarzenegger's visit, the Senate approved by one vote a measure
that would allow undocumented immigrants to apply for driver's licenses. The
Assembly followed suit late Friday. A Schwarzenegger representative said the
governor would veto the bill, because the licenses would not have a mark
distinguishing them from standard licenses, something Schwarzenegger wanted for
security reasons.

"The governor has consistently been adamant that certain security standards
would have to be met for the legislation to be viable," according to a copy of
the governor's "talking points."

Advocates, led by Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, said illegal immigrants are
already driving on California roads. Requiring them to pass a driving test and
obtain insurance would make roads and freeways safer for all, he said, and it
would help homeland security.

The issue has ignited a political firestorm over the past year and it helped
fuel the recall of Gov. Gray Davis. At Schwarzenegger's urging and with
Cedillo's cooperation, a previous license bill was repealed -- with the
governor's commitment that he would help craft a more stringent measure worthy
of his signature.

Cedillo supporters view the governor's recalcitrance as breaking a promise. But,
because the issue is unpopular with many Californians, it's not clear if a veto
would damage the governor's standing.

Opponents argued that granting licenses to illegal immigrants validates people
who are breaking the law.

The bill, AB 2895, would impose stricter safeguards than last year's bill,
including background checks by the FBI and fingerprints.

Lawsuit settlement

With little or no opposition, both the Assembly and Senate on Friday approved a
$1 billion package of bills that allows the state to settle a long-running
lawsuit over poor facilities and inadequate materials in impoverished schools,
including many in San Jose, East Palo Alto, Richmond and Oakland.

The bills -- AB 1550, AB 3001, SB 6 and SB 550 -- set aside $800 million over
several years to remedy urgent facilities problems, such as faulty wiring and
vermin infestations in the neediest schools. It also earmarks $138 million for
better textbooks and workbooks and sets aside $50 million to assess school
conditions, create greater oversight and start a well-promoted complaint system
for parents and students.

Passage of the measures should ensure that a court dismisses the school
facilities lawsuit, said Bonnie Reiss, Schwarzenegger's senior adviser and a
State Board of Education member. "This is very significant and something the
governor is very proud of," she said.

Gambling deals

Late Friday, the Senate approved a package of four Indian gambling deals that
could generate $45 million annually in state revenue. The Assembly approved the
package late Thursday after Schwarzenegger agreed to remove a controversial plan
for a casino in the urban Bay Area.

Hotel maids

Hotel maids would be guaranteed breaks and break rooms under legislation the
Assembly narrowly approved and sent to the governor Friday. The bill -- AB 606
by Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez -- pits workers against business, labor unions
against the hotel industry.

It would require employers to provide workers 15-minute breaks every four hours
and a half-hour lunch period, and a break room with drinking water and tables.
Violations would result in fines paid to housekeepers.

The measure is personal to Nunez, Los Angeles, whose mother, Soledad, was a
cleaning woman at a country club in the San Diego area.

E-voting

Late Thursday, the Assembly unanimously passed a bill -- SB 1438 -- to safeguard
election results from touch-screen voting. California's electronic voting
systems would be required to include paper records of all ballots cast by the
next statewide election in January 2006. The bill was slated for Senate
consideration late Friday.

Justice commission

In one of his parting acts, Burton created a new commission to study wrongful
convictions and executions in California. The commission's work could lead to
calls for a moratorium on the death penalty, as happened in Illinois.

Maternal care

Health insurance companies would be required to provide maternity coverage in
all individual insurance policies, under legislation approved in the Senate,
23-13, and sent to the governor.

The bill, SB 1555, is aimed at private insurers that do not include prenatal,
labor and delivery services within their basic plan coverage.

Schwarzenegger has not taken a formal position on the bill, sponsored by Sen.
Jackie Speier, D-San Mateo, that pits non-profit insurers, such as Kaiser and
women's groups, against for-profit providers, such as Blue Cross.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICH PEDRONCELLI -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
State Sen. John Burton, D-San Francisco, left, flexes his muscles for Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger on Friday, his last day in the state Senate. Other veteran
lawmakers were also working their last day.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 23, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR VETOES LICENSE BILL;
DEMOS VOW TO REVIVE ISSUE TO AID ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: KATE FOLMAR, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


As promised, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Wednesday vetoed a bill that would
have allowed an estimated 2 million undocumented immigrants to apply for
California driver's licenses -- a politically charged issue that helped fuel
last year's recall election.

The veto has widespread practical and political significance. For illegal
immigrants now in California, it means that every drive to work or the grocery
store continues to be an illegal one. For some Latino leaders and Democrats,
it's a disappointment, verging on a broken promise. For many of Schwarzenegger's
middle-of-the-road and conservative backers, it underscores the governor's
respect for the public's wishes.

Any way you look at the veto, it's a milestone for Schwarzenegger, a novice
politician who is rapidly letting Californians know his core beliefs as he
contemplates hundreds of bills. And it's a dramatic twist to California's
on-again, off-again driver's license saga.

But it's probably not the end.

The bill's main proponent, Sen. Gil Cedillo, wants the governor to know this:
He'll be back. Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, plans to introduce yet
another measure on the first day of the next legislative session and hopes to
meet individually with Schwarzenegger to hash out a suitable compromise.

In his veto message, Schwarzenegger was matter-of-fact. "One of the most
important duties of the governor of a state is to protect its citizens," he
wrote. "Determining the true identity and history of an individual is a key
component of that protection. This bill does not adequately address the security
concerns that my Department of Homeland Security and I have, and I cannot
support it."

"Nonsense," retorted Senate President Pro Tem John Burton, D-San Francisco. For
decades, illegal immigrants applied for, and received, California driver's
licenses, but Republican former Gov. Pete Wilson changed that in the 1990s.

"That's much ado about nothing," Burton said. "For 65 years, non-citizens could
get driver's licenses and nothing bad happened. It's a lot of nonsense. Never
was a problem. Shouldn't be a problem."

But it sounded like the right call to Senate Republican Leader Dick Ackerman. He
and other bill opponents said the measure would have "rewarded" illegal behavior
and threatened security, because licenses can be used to board airplanes.

Ackerman, of Tustin, cautioned Democrats against resurrecting the concept.

"If they're smart, it won't be back," Ackerman said. The license topic "will be
a campaign issue in every one of our targeted races. We've polled on this
extensively, and Democrats, Republicans and independents don't like it."

But Cedillo was undaunted. He said his polls show increasing public support.

Cedillo has pursued immigrant licenses since 1998, trying to fulfill a vow he
made to his dying wife. He and other backers, including many religious andlaw
enforcement leaders, contend that roads and highways would be safer for everyone
if all drivers were licensed.

Cedillo called this year's version of the bill "the strictest and most secure"
yet.

Just a year ago, then-Gov. Gray Davis signed a bill allowing illegal immigrants
to get California licenses, as he fought for his political life in the historic
recall election. Republican Schwarzenegger campaigned against the licenses and
made repealing the bill one of his top priorities upon taking office.

Granting Schwarzenegger his wish, Democratic lawmakers reluctantly repealed the
driver's license bill, but only after receiving Schwarzenegger's word that he
would work with them on a measure that he could sign. At the time,
Schwarzenegger voiced concerns about security and uninsured drivers.

Cedillo said he tried to satisfy those worries. The bill, AB 2895, would have
required FBI background checks and fingerprints from applicants. But talks
between the administration and Cedillo broke down over the governor's insistence
that the licenses be a different color or have a "distinguishing mark" --
something Cedillo considers a "discriminatory mark."

Despite the impasse, Democrats pushed the measure through on the final day of
the two-year legislative session. Schwarzenegger vowed to veto it. So he did.

Still, Cedillo believes he can negotiate with the governor. But he would prefer
that Schwarzenegger's suggestions be put in writing this time. Cedillo stopped
just short of saying the governor had broken his promise to broker a compromise.

"The promise was not made exclusively to me. It was made to the people of
California," Cedillo said. "He stated a number of times that we would do
something 'fantastic' for the immigrants of California once we addressed
questions of fingerprints and background checks. It's a promise that has to be
kept."

"He hasn't completed it yet," Cedillo said. "But every day is a good day to be
honest and true to your word."

GOVERNOR'S BUSY DAY
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed 28 bills and vetoed 22 Wednesday.

SIGNED

Hate crimes: Broadens definition to include people targeted because of their
association with certain groups.
Libraries: Lets voters consider a $600 million bond for libraries in 2006.
VETOED

Licenses: Would have allowed 2 million illegal immigrants to apply for driver's
licenses.
Maternity coverage: Would have mandated that all insurance policies sold in
state cover maternal care.
Health care: Would have required hospitals to provide low rates to low-income,
uninsured patients.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: STEVE YEATER -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
In November, Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, defends the law allowing illegal
immigrants to get driver's licenses before its repeal.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            October 2, 2003 Thursday

Intelligent farmworker bills

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 369 words


WHEN conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats, big farmers and union
activists agree on something, it's worth noting. When their consensus concerns
as complicated and freighted an issue as immigration reform, there's even
greater reason to think something worthwhile is stirring. That's why S 1645 by
Sens. Edward M. Kennedy [D-Mass.] and Larry E. Craig [R-Idaho] and Reps. Howard
L. Berman [D-North Hollywood] and Chris Cannon [R-Utah] should be considered
seriously by Congress.

At first glance, the bill seems unfair: It would make it possible for thousands
of illegal farm workers nationwide to earn legal U.S. residency. But note that
the key word is residency, not necessarily quick citizenship. The bill seeks to
regularize the comings and goings of agricultural workers, at least half of whom
are in the United States illegally.

This is not another sweeping, doomed-to-fail amnesty program. It is a plan that
holds promise for how the United States can begin to fix its tattered
immigration policies. Those who had been working in U.S. agriculture for more
than three months before Aug. 31 this year would be granted temporary legal
status. If they continued working in agriculture for 360 days over six years,
they could become eligible for permanent residency.

The bill also would streamline procedures for growers to hire temporary guest
workers from abroad. The current federal guest worker program has rarely been
used in California because growers find it a costly, unreliable and cumbersome
bureaucratic process that is unresponsive to the time-sensitive nature of
growing produce. Too many growers skip the red tape by calling contractors that
will fetch them as many workers as needed, even if those workers come illegally
from across the border.

Under the proposed law, future guest workers would be allowed to work in the
U.S. for only 10 months before being sent home.

The new proposal was introduced last week in the Senate. The bill is backed by
representatives of agricultural business, farm workers and unions. They agree
that unlike past, unsuccessful farm-worker initiatives, this offers fair,
specific and practical steps.

Los Angeles Times

Editorial

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              66 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 12, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE REALITY OF FARM LABOR;
LEGISLATION IN CONGRESS IS A SENSIBLE APPROACH TO MIGRANT WORKER ISSUES

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 304 words


President Bush and Mexico's Vicente Fox resume talking today about immigration
reform. Their top priority should be to push the plan already in Congress that
provides a sensible approach to migrant farm worker issues.

Congress should pass the bipartisan reform bill, which has support from both the
growers and the United Farm Workers of America.

The Senate bill, sponsored by Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Larry Craig, R-Idaho,
would improve wages and working conditions for farm workers. It also would
provide growers with a dependable workforce, not one subjected to immigration
raids and circumventing convoluted immigration policies. They could get back to
the business of feeding America.

The bill streamlines the now cumbersome process of getting temporary work visas
for seasonal or agricultural workers and makes it possible for them to legally
find off-season jobs.

Undocumented field workers who could demonstrate that they worked 100 or more
days in the last 18 months could apply for temporary legal status; if they work
an additional 360 hours during the next six years they could apply for permanent
resident status.

Workers also would be able to legally re-enter the United States, making trips
home safer than crossing the border under the cover of darkness, or worse. And
families already living on the economic edge would be allowed to remain here,
and remain together.

As much as the bill's opponents and advocates of tight border controls want
workers to remain the invisible link in the food chain, the food industry would
be hard-pressed to survive without migrant farm workers -- and consumers would
feel the pain in the form of less produce and higher prices at the checkout
stand.

It's time to break the stalemate and take this first step toward meaningful
immigration reform.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 21, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRESIDENT BREAKS IMMIGRATION PROMISE;
FIRST HE RAISED HOPES FOR REFORM, THEN HE DASHED THEM

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 409 words


Six months ago, President Bush raised great hopes for immigration reform this
year. Last week, he quietly dashed them.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist -- at the Bush administration's urging --
refused to let an immigration reform bill dealing with farm workers come to a
vote.

The AgJobs bill, sponsored by Idaho Republican Larry Craig, would have created a
stable workforce for employers and improved the lives of farm workers. Both
growers and unions, plus dozens of immigrants rights and business groups,
supported it after years of negotiations. Craig's bipartisan coalition included
63 senators, 26 of them Republicans.

Blocking the bill sabotages that consensus. It also exposes how toxic the issue
of immigration remains within the Republican Party. No sooner had the president
expressed the broad principles of reform in January than he started retreating
from them amid resistance from conservatives.

AgJobs would have applied only to the half-million immigrants who work the
fields, not the remaining 8 million to 12 million undocumented workers in
America. It was supposed to be the easy part of immigration reform. But if it
cannot see the light of day, then prospects of a comprehensive reform certainly
appear slim.

The sticking point, as expected, is the path to citizenship for those already
here illegally. Bush has been vague on this point, saying only that an
unspecified number of green cards would be available to undocumented workers who
seek and receive temporary work visas. But he has indicated he'd oppose anything
similar to the general amnesty given in the 1980s.

The AgJobs bill wouldn't offer that. Permanent residency would be a privilege
earned through a documented record of field work, not a right given
retroactively. To be eligible, undocumented farm workers would have to do at
least 360 days of agricultural work over the next six years and agree to a
criminal background check. The bill would create temporary visas for new foreign
workers.

More than 80 percent of farm workers are undocumented. They are not displacing
American workers, and they need the protections that AgJobs would have offered:
housing, a guaranteed minimum wage, the ability to change jobs, the ability to
cross the southern border without fear or reprisal.

The black market of farm labor exploits workers. It undermines the long-term
interests of growers. Last week, the president reneged on a promise to end it.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TERRENCE ANTONIO JAMES -- CHICAGO TRIBUNE
U.S. Border Patrol agents scan the horizon from the Arizona side of the
U.S.-Mexico border. Sections of the simple barbed-wire fence are often torn down
by illegal immigrants.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 1, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN THEIR OWN WORDS;
IMMIGRATION: IMPACT REACHES ACROSS SPECTRUM OF POLITICS IN GOLDEN STATE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 2001 words


In a state without a racial or ethnic majority, immigration is a hot-button
election topic that is inextricably linked with many other issues confronting
Californians.

A recent Field Poll found that immigration ranked as one of the top issues
important to California voters in the recall election, along with the economy,
education and health care, among others.

Both advocates and critics of immigration agree it's impossible forcandidates to
speak about issues such as public schools or health care without mentioning
immigration.

That's particularly true for a state where 27 percent of the population is
foreign-born, said Marielena Hincapie, a staff attorney with the National
Immigration Law Center, a non-profit advocacy group in Oakland.

"Given the demographics of the state, clearly we need to make sure the recall
candidates or the next governor has a realistic understanding of the impact of
immigrants on the economy and the contributions of immigrants to the state,"
Hincapie said.

It's little surprise, then, that the state's most divisive immigration
initiative, Proposition 187, has had an enduring impact on California politics.
Early in the recall campaign, candidates had to address how they voted on the
1994 initiative that sought to deny public benefits to illegal immigrants.

The latest flash point over immigration in the Oct. 7 bid to oust Gov. Gray
Davis came as the governor signed the controversial legislation that allows
illegal immigrants to apply for driver's licenses. The bill allows Californians
to use a tax-identification number instead of a Social Security card when
applying.

Supporters, including leading Democratic candidates, believe that licensing all
California drivers is an issue of safety. Republicans, who have vowed to repeal
the legislation, say it's a system that will be vulnerable to fraud and abuse.

Sharing the Oct. 7 ballot with the recall candidates will be the equally
controversial initiative Proposition 54, which would ban the collection of
racial and ethnic data by state government agencies.

Ward Connerly, a University of California regent who wrote the initiative, said
it's the next step to banning racial preferences, which Connerly successfully
campaigned for in 1996 with Proposition 209. That law banned race as a criterion
in state hiring, awarding of contracts and university admissions.

Opponents of Proposition 54 say racial and ethnic data is central to documenting
discrimination.

Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director of Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable
America, an Oakland group that advocates a moratorium on immigration, said that
despite debates over Propositions 54 and 187, there is little discussion in the
recall campaign about the impact of immigration on California.

"You can think of any issue -- education, transportation," Yeh said. "Each of
these is tied to excessive levels of . . . immigration."

The indelible mark of immigrants on Golden State politics is also on the
candidate roster. Immigrants, notably actor Arnold Schwarzenegger, are among 135
candidates vying for the chance to run the world's fifth-largest economy.

Voters "are very smart," Hincapie said. "They're looking not just at people who
have similar experiences . . . but people who will be passing laws that will
improve the lives of all Californians."

What was your position on Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative that proposed to
cut public benefits to illegal immigrants? Did you vote for it or against it?
Davis: I voted against Proposition 187, and actively fought against it.
Proposition 187 would have gone so far as to deny medical treatment to children.
Proposition 187 was unconscionable.
Bustamante: I opposed Proposition 187.
Camejo: I voted "No" on Prop. 187. It was wrong, and it also endangered the
public by increasing the likelihood of gang violence and of major public-health
problems. Fortunately, the courts overturned most of the worst provisions.
McClintock: I campaigned and voted for Proposition 187, as did a large
percentage of Latino Americans. There are millions of Latino families who have
obeyed our immigration laws and come to our nation legally to become Americans
and to see their children prosper as Americans. Illegal immigration is a process
of cutting in line in front of the people obeying our immigration laws. It is
unfair to all of those from around the world who have stood in line to obey our
laws to grant preference to those who have cut in line in front of them.
Schwarzenegger: I am pro-immigration and pro-immigrant. I voted in favor of
Proposition 187 because of simple fairness. Californians should not have to bear
costs that are the result of the federal government's failure to enforce
immigration laws and to implement a fair and effective immigration policy.
Do you support allowing undocumented immigrants to get California driver's
licenses?
Davis: Yes. Legislation I recently signed extended access to driver's licenses
to California immigrants, who work hard, pay taxes, and are already on the road.
This legislation will allow immigrants to get car insurance and be tested on the
rules of the road, lowering costs, reducing the number of uninsured drivers and
improving roadway safety. Furthermore, we will add to the DMV database of
driver's names, addresses and fingerprints to help law enforcement do their
jobs. This is good legislation, which is why it is supported by law enforcement
officials like Los Angeles Police Chief William Bratton and elected officials
like Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi. In addition, city councils in
several municipalities, including the city of San Jose, have passed resolutions
supporting the bill.
Bustamante: Yes.
Camejo: Yes, people who are living here and paying taxes cannot be denied a
normal status for driving. It is also a public-safety issue. Everyone who is
driving on California's roads needs to pass the standard tests. -- we We must
not increase the dangers to drivers by ignoring the reality that exists.
McClintock: No. I led the opposition to S.B. 60 and now support the effort to
have a referendum on the March ballot before this dangerous law can take
affecteffect.
Schwarzenegger: I oppose providing driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants.
as provided by Senate Bill 60. I am listening to the voices of law enforcement,
and this bill does not provide for a system of background checks and creates
national-security concerns. Gov. Davis, who vetoed similar legislation in the
past because of concerns over national security and fraud, has now put his
personal political interests above the interests of California. I am
pro-immigrant. That is why I oppose second-class identification for undocumented
immigrants but support a properly regulated temporary worker-visa program.
Should undocumented immigrants be allowed to pay in-state tuition in the state's
public university system?
Davis: Yes. I signed legislation to allow immigrants to pay in-state tuition.
Children who grew up and graduated from high school here (and were brought here
by their parents) should not be priced out of a good future.
Bustamante: Yes.
Camejo: Yes -- if they have been educated in California and meet our standard
residency requirements, then they should be allowed to pay the same amount of
tuition that other in-state students pay.
McClintock: I oppose making illegal aliens eligible for in-state tuition. It is
wrong, especially when citizens of California are being turned away and American
citizens from other states must pay the higher out-of-state tuitions.
Schwarzenegger: I support the provision in the "Development, Relief, and
Education for Alien Minors Act" (DREAM Act), sponsored by Sen. Orrin Hatch,
which gives states the authority to determine this important question. I support
in-state tuition for undocumented immigrants who have graduated from a
California high school or who have been in California for more than five years.
What was your position on Proposition 209, the 1996 state initiative that banned
affirmative action in higher education? Did you vote for it or against it?
Davis: I am opposed to wedge issue politics, and I opposed Proposition 209. As
governor, I have worked to maintain a strong commitment to diversity in higher
education. In my first term, I put into place an initiative called the
Four-Percent Admissions Program. This program ensures admission at a UC school
for the top 4 percent of students from every high school in California. It has
helped increase freshman admissions among African-American students by 30
percent and Latino students by 37 percent. In addition, my merit-based
scholarship programs have provided more than 300,000 awards to the top 10
percent of every high school in grades 9-11, and we have guaranteed financial
aid for the cost of tuition for every eligible student attending public
universities in California.
Bustamante: I opposed Proposition 209.
Camejo: I opposed and voted against Proposition 209. This misguided initiative
has curtailed programs designed to expand equal opportunity and prevent race and
gender discrimination, and higher education in California is now suffering
because of it. Now that the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that affirmative action
can be used in college admissions, I will work to overturn Prop. 209.
McClintock: I voted for and support Proposition 209 to move us toward a
colorblind society.
Schwarzenegger: I believe that everyone should be treated equally and that all
Californians deserve a shot at the American Dream. I embrace the diversity of
California and deplore discrimination in all its manifestations. I support
race-neutral measures to advance historically underrepresented groups in
education, employment and public contracting. I support and advance current
efforts to identify and advance students from underrepresented communities into
higher education.
What is your position on Proposition 54, the initiative on the recall ballot
that would ban local and state governments from collecting racial and ethnic
data?
Davis: I am 100 percent against Proposition 54, a measure that would eliminate
important medical data and information about student achievement, test scores,
graduation rates, dropout rates and truancy rates. This information is vital to
the school-accountability program California established in 1999, which is
designed to help every child succeed. This information ban would jeopardize our
ability to collect data on diseases -- data we need to protect public health. In
addition, the initiative would prohibit the collection of data on the victims of
hate crimes, and it would ban the collection (even the voluntary collection) of
data on racial profiling. I believe this proposition is divisive and represents
a return to wedge issue politics. The Information Ban would be bad policy and
bad for all Californians.
Bustamante: I oppose Proposition 54.
Camejo: We must strongly oppose Proposition 54. This initiative is a radical
measure that would damage our ability to address disparities by race or
ethnicity in health care and disease patterns, educational resources and
academic achievement, and hate crime and discrimination. Everyone should vote
"No" on Prop. 54.
Huffington: I'm campaigning against Proposition 54 all around the state. It is
bad for health care, bad for education, bad for public policy. It is nothing
more than racial discrimination without a paper trail.
McClintock: I strongly endorse and support it. I do not believe that a person's
skin color should determine how they are treated by their government.
Schwarzenegger: I oppose Proposition 54 because while I share Dr. King's dream
for a colorblind society, I recognize discrimination persists and only by
acknowledging this fact can we seek to overcome it. My position on this issue is
informed by my years visiting inner-city schools and neighborhoods and seeing
the lingering effects of racial discrimination.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE RECALL
WHO SHOULD LEAD CALIFORNIA?

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 11, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINO GROUP JOINS ATTACK ON LICENSE LAW

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 107 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


A small Latino organization and the conservative Pacific Legal Foundation teamed
up Monday to launch the latest attack on a new law granting driver's licenses to
undocumented immigrants.

The lawsuit, filed in the 3rd District Court of Appeal on behalf of Latino
Americans for Immigration Reform, seeks to block the law from taking effect
inJanuary.

Gov.-elect Arnold Schwarzenegger said he will work to repeal the law, signed by
Gov. Gray Davis as he fought to save his job. A petition to overturn it also is
in the works.

The suit claims the law is unconstitutional, said Lupe Moreno, spokeswoman for
the Latino organization.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 21, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SIDES DISCUSS REPEALING LAW ON IMMIGRANT DRIVER'S LICENSES;
WITH REFERENDUM LIKELY TO PASS, TALKS FOCUS ON FINDING COMPROMISE

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 475 words


To avoid a March referendum, the author of the law letting illegal immigrants
get driver's licenses is talking to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's staff about
repealing the measure and passing stricter legislation next year, aides said
Thursday.

Discussions have been held for several days between Sen. Gilbert Cedillo, D-Los
Angeles, and Richard Costigan, who is Schwarzenegger's legislative secretary.
Cedillo sponsored SB 60, which former Gov. Gray Davis enacted in late October
during the recall election.

Schwarzenegger promised to repeal the law, which proved overwhelmingly unpopular
with California voters. Tuesday, he opened the door to a compromise when he said
he would consider a new law for those with temporary work visas "if you can put
the whole package together, tied to insurance, tied to background checks and all
that."

But Cedillo is balking at the governor's conditions.

"Our fundamental problem is we're being asked to put up two-thirds of a vote for
something we worked on for five years in exchange for a promise to sit down and
work something out next year," said Dan Savage, Cedillo's chief of staff.

Schwarzenegger needs a two-thirds vote by the Legislature to repeal the law
immediately and prevent others from taking action that could reinstate it.
Costigan said an obscure provision of the state constitution could allow
supporters of the driver's license law to put a repeal on hold for a few months,
if the repeal was done by less than a two-thirds vote.

It's not clear whether Schwarzenegger can get a two-thirds vote withoutCedillo's
cooperation. But Democrats are also eager to avoid having the law repealed by
voters. A group of conservative Republicans is trying to qualify a referendum
for the March ballot.

The referendum would almost certainly pass. Polls have shown two-thirds of
voters are against Cedillo's law.

Supporters fear that a referendum would kill the driver's license bill
politically, making it impossible to pass similar but stricter legislation next
year or perhaps ever again. There are an estimated 2 million illegal immigrants
in California of driving age. Until 1994, illegal immigrants were allowed to get
driver's licenses.

Some Democrats, including Sen. Jackie Speier, D-San Mateo, and Assemblywoman
Gloria Negrete McCleod, D-Montclair, have said they plan to vote for the repeal,
although they voted for Cedillo's bill in September.

Speaking on the "John and Ken Show" on KFI-AM (640) in Los Angeles on Thursday,
Schwarzenegger said he was making progress with the Democrats on the driver's
license repeal.

"We have a good chance," he said. "I think they are all very understanding, and
we're working really well together with them."

When the host asked about the referendum, Schwarzenegger added, "I have total
faith that it will happen in a special session."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Ann E. Marimow contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Cedillo
Author of law opposes conditions set by governor.
PHOTO: Costigan
Legislative secretary says compromise is possible.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 5, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT-SMUGGLER SHOOTOUT KILLS FOUR

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 87 words

DATELINE: CASA GRANDE, ARIZ.


Smugglers who traffic in illegal immigrants opened fire on a rival group on an
Arizona interstate Tuesday, killing four people and wounding five, authorities
said. Four people were later arrested in the desert.

The shootings began as smugglers traveling in a van chased down a sport-utility
vehicle and a pickup truck carrying the other smugglers and several illegal
immigrants between Tucson and Phoenix, said Pinal CountySheriff Roger
Vanderpool. The pursuing group shot into the other cars numerous times.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            January 25, 2004 Sunday

Bush's legalization plan could fuel California backlash

SECTION: OP-ED

LENGTH: 858 words


PRESIDENT Bush's still-shapeless proposal to give legal guest worker status to
some 8 million illegal aliens, one-third of them in California, might never
become law.

It's not even certain whether that's what Bush really wants, or whether he just
wants it hanging around on the agenda, at least until after November, as a
come-on to Latino voters and political moderates.

But there's not much doubt that in places such as California, it could fuel as
much backlash from conservatives, and even from centrist voters, as it draws
support.

In a political season when Bush can pretty much take the right for granted, the
backlash might not do much damage to the president's chances of re-election.

But it could well reduce the prospect, already slim, for any California tax
increase, or for the passage of any measure such as Proposition 56 that would
make it easier to raise taxes. It also increases the chances that Ron Prince's
son-of-Proposition-187 initiative, which would prohibit "state or local public
benefits for any aliens classified as ineligible under federal law," would pass
if it gets on the November ballot.

There aren't that many public services, other than public education, which is
protected by a Supreme Court decision, for which illegal aliens can qualify. But
the Legislative Analyst's Office nonetheless estimates that its passage could
save local governments -- counties particularly -- more than $100 million.

It's hardly certain that Prince can find the money to qualify the measure --
there's no Gov. Pete Wilson to help him out this time. But as long as nearly 70
percent of the state's voters are white, middle class and only marginally
dependent on the health and social services that disproportionately serve poor
and minority residents, the political dynamics are in place for a repeat of the
vote for Proposition 187.

There's some clue in the old polls. In a survey just before the vote on
Proposition 187 in 1994, the Field Poll reported that 85 percent of likely "yes"
voters on the measure believed it would "save millions of dollars now being
spent on illegal immigrants"; 78 percent believed that it would "free up money
for the education of legal residents"; and 71 percent said "it will deter
illegal immigrants from coming here in the first place."

But there are recent indications as well, among them the strong public
opposition to the bill passed last year [and since repealed] giving illegal
aliens the chance to obtain California driver's licenses. The bill helped undo
Gov. Gray Davis in the recall last October.

And although it's only anecdotal, every time there are stories about crowded
schools, complaints fly that the schools are only crowded because of all those
aliens.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger probably knows the history of the angry Latino
reaction to the support that Wilson and the California GOP gave Proposition 187,
and the influx of new Latino voters, nearly all registered as Democrats, that it
produced.

ALTHOUGH Schwarzenegger pushed the repeal of the driver's license bill, he's
already endorsed Bush's plan for what appears to be temporary legalization of
those 8 million aliens.

But to a great many people, the Bush plan is likely to look like another version
of IRCA, the Reagan-era Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, that offered
amnesty to millions of illegal aliens. The quid pro quo was supposed to be
tighter control of U.S. borders and employer sanctions to stop the wholesale
employment of undocumented workers. But if IRCA did anything other than
legalizing those aliens -- and ultimately opening the doors to U.S. citizenship
for many of them -- it generated a second wave of illegal aliens, most of them
relatives of those who received amnesty.

Americans now depend on those illegal immigrant workers -- people who take
low-paying jobs in agriculture, hotels, restaurants and elsewhere that few
others are willing to accept at the wages offered. We use their labor but often
resent their presence, especially in tough economic times, and the burdens that
we believe they impose.

That ambivalence echoes through endless studies purporting to show, on the one
hand, that immigrants pay more than their share in taxes, especially after
they've been here for a number of years, and that they or their children
assimilate in the classic American fashion; and, on the other, that they
overburden schools, colleges and other services.

But two things seem certain: that the country is not likely ever again to have
an era of immigration stability as it did between 1920 and 1960; and that until
those immigrants gain a proportional voice in the electorate, their presence
could well be a damper on the voters' willingness to support high-quality
schooling and other services.

That creates an enormous dilemma for those who chafe at tight border controls,
but who still want generous opportunities for all Californians.

And it underlines the urgent need to confront the growing gap between the forces
of a global economy and our traditional ideas of community and citizenship.

Peter Schrag writes for the Sacramento Bee.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              73 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             August 30, 2004 Monday

American dream dies, but man survives

BYLINE: By Susan Carroll

LENGTH: 811 words


THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC PHOENIX

SHE wished for one thing on her 40th birthday. "Don't go," Grace Arakanchi
pleaded with her husband of 21 years during her surprise party.

On Aug. 4, the day after Arakanchi's birthday, Roberto Ramirez Ramos walked down
the concrete stairs outside their apartment in a Mexico City suburb, bound for
North Carolina. He called about 38 hours later from a town south of the
Arizona-Sonora border and promised to call again when he was inside the United
States.

The next time his family heard from him, days later, he was at the Mexico City
airport.

"It all worked out badly," he said of his illegal crossing. "But I'm coming
home."

Ramirez became one of

5,800 Mexicans who have taken advantage of the U.S. government's repatriation
program since it started July 12.

The program flies undocumented immigrants into the country's interior for free
instead of leaving them at the U.S.-Mexican border, where many try to cross
again.

The daily flights to Mexico City and Guadalajara have cost more than $3 million
so far. The program runs through the end of September.

On Aug. 8, Ramirez boarded a flight from Tucson to Mexico City with 76 other
undocumented immigrants. Some pledged quietly to try to cross the border again,
but many others, like Ramirez, were thankful to be headed home.

For a long time, the couple had few complaints. Ramirez worked for a petroleum
distribution company. Arakanchi sold cosmetics and raised two kids. When Ramirez
voted for Mexican President Vicente Fox in 2000, the family was solid
"upper-middle class," he said.

But slowly, things got worse. Their neighborhood grew more and more dangerous,
he said. Ramirez, 41, felt they had to move.

He worked extra hours but felt like he couldn't get ahead. He was seeing less
and less of his family. Ramirez started thinking about going to the United
States legally.

For nearly three months, he worked to get his papers ready. In order to get a
visa, he had to prove he had bank accounts and family ties in Mexico. He kept
running into problems with the bureaucracy, he said.

Representatives of the Mexican Consulate in Tucson interview each undocumented
immigrant to make sure no one is forced to get on the plane.>As his frustration
grew, his cousin in North Carolina said there was an easier, quicker way to get
to the United States. He lined up a job for Ramirez.

He insisted. He couldn't get ahead in Mexico, he told his wife. He made his last
payment on the loan and quit his job to leave for the United States.>

On Aug. 4, Ramirez met a smuggler at a Mexico City bus station. Like most
undocumented immigrants, Ramirez was to pay the smuggler after he arrived safely
in the U.S. From Altar, the group of 10 headed north to the town of Sasabe,
Mexico, then loaded onto trucks and were taken to a remote stretch of the desert
near the U.S.-Mexican border.

Before the group crossed the border, bandits stopped them. Wearing masks and
toting guns, the bandits ordered the men and women to strip down. Ramirez turned
over the $40 and 200 pesos he carried.>

His group crossed the border and walked through the desert as the night grew
darker. Ramirez, a diabetic, started getting sharp shooting pains in his legs.
After three hours, he was lagging.

The smuggler explained the situation like a business deal. There were 10 of
them, one of him. They were going to have to leave him behind.

Ramirez fought panic. He kept walking. He asked if it was OK if he just rested
outside.>

He arrived at a home and sat down until he saw a U.S. Border Patrol truck and
then walked toward the highway. He was giving up.

According to the Border Patrol, Ramirez was picked up about 10 a.m. Aug. 7. He
was put into a detention center in Tucson, where he talked to others caught in
the Arizona desert. Some had stories worse than his, he said, of being in the
desert for two days and nights with no water.

The repatriation program is designed to give undocumented immigrants the option
of returning home instead of starting over at the border. Many are weakened by a
first trip across the border, and a repeat crossing can prove fatal.

Representatives of the Mexican Consulate in Tucson interview each undocumented
immigrant to make sure no one is forced to get on the plane.

On Aug. 8, Ramirez boarded the plane to Mexico City.

After a 40-minute car ride from the airport, Ramirez walked up the concrete
steps and into the entryway where his wife and daughter waited. He took
Arakanchi in his arms. She cried and buried her face in his neck. The day after
Ramirez returned from the border, Arakanchi had difficulty with his decision to
go.

He did it of his own volition, not because it was the will of God, she said,
sitting at the kitchen table.

Ramirez did not argue but added quietly, It was out of desperation.>

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              74 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 20, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS' RIGHT TO DRIVE FOUGHT

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Secretary of State Kevin Shelley cleared the way Friday for an effort to repeal
a new law that will allow illegal immigrants to apply for California driver's
licenses starting Jan. 1. The California Republican Assembly has until Dec. 7 to
collect 373,816 signatures to qualify for the March ballot.

The conservative group aims to overturn the law Gov. Gray Davis signed this
month that allows driver's license applicants to provide a federal taxpayer
identification number instead of a Social Security number as proof of legal
residency.

Many illegal immigrants are already driving without licenses, and the governor
has said the law will ensure that all California drivers are tested, trained and
insured.

But the issue has become tied up in recall politics, with critics accusing Davis
of pandering to Latino voters. The governor vetoed similar legislation last year
because, he said, it did not protect against fraud or abuse.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 7, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UP FOR GRABS: LATINO VOTERS AREN'T LOCKED-IN DEMOCRATS;
THE RECALL ELECTION IS ALL ABOUT ANGER, NOT A UNIFIED BLOC

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 550 words


Two Latinos came to mind when I cast my ballot in California's recall election.
And the difference between them tells us more about Latino voters than
politicians seem to understand.

Soledad is an illegal immigrant from Mexico who stands to get a driver's
license, thanks to new legislation Gov. Gray Davis signed in a desperate attempt
to win a chunk of the 2.3 million registered Latino voters and save his career.
Davis vetoed similar legislation twice before.

During a recent drive through San Jose, I explained to Soledad how labor unions
and Latino Democrats were pushing the driver's license bill through the state
Legislature.

"Even though they know I can't vote?" she asked. "I'm undocumented. What about
all the people who voted against the undocumented?"

She understands the paradox in this picture. The governor's signature on the
driver's license bill would please the liberal unions, who promised to get their
members and sympathetic Latino Democrats to the polls. Davis risked angering
conservative voters who want illegal immigrants rounded up and deported.

Soledad -- the main beneficiary -- is years away from becoming legal, let alone
a naturalized citizen who could some day repay Democrats at the polls.

At the other end of the Latino spectrum is a 24-year-old fourth-generation
Mexican-American I'll call Robert. He registered to vote at 18, but he couldn't
remember the last time he actually voted. "None of my buddies at work vote
either."

Robert earns decent money testing video games in Silicon Valley. How cool is
that? But he rarely votes and doesn't follow politics -- except for this recall
election.

"I'm voting for Arnold because I like what he has to say," Robert said. "And so
are all of my friends."

I spoke with Robert before 15 women came forward to accuse Arnold
Schwarzenegger, the Republican front-runner, of groping them and other sexually
inappropriate behavior. But something tells me Robert and his friends won't
change their minds. This election is all about anger at the political
establishment, and Arnold is the anti-establishment candidate who's going to mow
them down. I wouldn't be surprised if the Terminator walks away with a good
chunk of the young, Latino vote.

We've heard talk for more than a decade of how Latinos will become a monolithic
power at the ballot booth and deliver gold to whichever political party comes up
with the correct Latino alchemy. But this notion disregards the incredible
complexity of Latino voters, particularly among California's Mexican-Americans.

As Gregory Rodriguez, one of the best voices on the subject, wrote in a recent
article for the Los Angeles Times:

"At any given moment, millions of Mexican-Americans are living at varying
distances, physical and psychological, from the immigrant experience and at
different levels of acculturation."

Latino political unity is more hype than reality. And this recall election
offers a unique, wide-angle look at Latinos we don't typically see. We have four
key party candidates this time, not just two, ranging from grass-roots liberal
to ultra-conservative, plus a planeload of other challengers.

Maybe the enduring lesson of the recall will be that the Latino vote isn't up
for grabs by one candidate or party. It's just up for grabs.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PAUL SAKUMA -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Arnold Schwarzenegger holds a child at a rally Monday in San Jose.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 16, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REPEAL IT;
THEN IMPROVE IT;
DRIVER'S LICENSE LAW HAS SECURITY FLAWS, BUT THEY CAN BE FIXED

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 4P

LENGTH: 480 words


Gov.-elect Arnold Schwarzenegger is calling the Legislature into session right
after his inauguration to keep a campaign promise. As the first order of
business, he wants legislators to repeal SB 60, allowing illegal immigrants to
get driver's licenses.

They should. SB 60 has big flaws. But the second order of business should be to
pass a new driver's license bill -- one that grants undocumented workers the
right to drive without creating the potential for fraud and abuse, not to
mention huge lines at the Department of Motor Vehicles.

The sponsor of SB 60, Sen. Gil Cedillo, a Los Angeles Democrat, finally is
willing to compromise. But Schwarzenegger must be willing to listen. So far, he
has refused.

Schwarzenegger figures he doesn't have to negotiate. He knows that iflegislators
don't repeal the law, voters will. Opponents are gathering signatures to put
rescission on the March ballot.

Although it passed the Legislature last year for the third time, the bill is
unpopular outside Sacramento. Two-thirds of voters at last month's recall
election told pollsters they opposed it, and some cited Gov. Davis' signature as
a reason to give him the boot.

That was even before the recent prediction that hundreds of thousands of
undocumented workers will crowd understaffed DMV offices to take their driving
tests after the law takes effect Jan. 1, causing delays of up to six months for
Californians to get a license. No wonder some Democrats who voted for the bill
three months ago are backpedaling fast.

What's being lost in the backlash is the reason the Legislature supported the
law in the first place.

Undocumented immigrants are integral to our communities and the state's economy.
They should be able to drive legally to their jobs and children's schools -- and
safely, by having to take a driving test. Until 1994, they had this right in
California. Then the law was changed to require a Social Security number,
available only to citizens and legal residents.

SB 60, however, went too far. It creates security risks and the potential for
identity theft by granting licenses based on forms of identification that can't
be verified. Cedillo had included more restrictions in previous years' versions,
such as requiring background checks and limiting licenses to immigrants who are
applying for residency. The latter would substantially cut the eligibility
numbers -- and shorten the lines at the DMV.

Efforts to repeal the license law could become a reprise of the ugly fight a
decade ago leading to the passage of Proposition 187. That measure, which courts
largely overturned, would have denied public education and some health and
social services to illegal immigrants.

A governor who sees himself as a unifier can prevent another divisive battle by
renegotiating the licensing bill to achieve its goal while eliminating its
problems.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT DRIVERS

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 26, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL BEING TWEAKED;
NEW VERSION TO ADDRESS SECURITY ISSUE

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 481 words


While state leaders forged ahead to prevent the implementation of a law that
would allow illegal immigrants to apply for driver's licenses, the measure's
author said Tuesday tat he planned to reintroduce a new bill with many
similarities to the version repealed by senators this week.

"I don't think this is going to be difficult," said Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los
Angeles. "We've been working on it for five years; the variables can be
tweaked."

The bill he expects to introduce in January would allow all illegal immigrants
age 16 and older -- an estimated 2 million people -- to apply for licenses,
provided they undergo criminal background checks.

But Cedillo's desire that "all motorists are tested, licensed and insured," runs
counter to legislators who have insisted that the law be limited to illegal
immigrants who have applied for legal residency through the federal government.

Monday, the Senate unanimously repealed the bill former Gov. Gray Davis signed
in September. The Assembly will probably follow suit next week. Cedillo urged
that the measure, which would have taken effect Jan. 1, be rejected as it became
clear the law was headed for a statewide vote in March.

Referendum sponsors have said they will abandon their campaign if the
Legislature repeals the law.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who campaigned against the law, has not publicly
said what he expects from a new measure, other than better "security standards."
A Schwarzenegger representative Tuesday said the governor is awaiting Cedillo's
new proposal.

"What the governor has said all along is that if supporters of this measure wish
to craft legislation in the next session, taking into account his security
concerns, he would be willing to take a fresh look at it," said Vincent
Sollitto, the governor's deputy press secretary.

While lawmakers push for the bill's demise, immigrant advocates in downtown San
Jose and around California on Tuesday rallied in favor of the existing measure.

"By repealing this law," said Isabel Villavicencio, a member of Voluntarios de
la Comunidad, a San Jose group, "you are pushing away the needs of the people."

Speaking in front of a large banner that read "Licenses for all,"
representatives from labor groups and community organizations urged legislators
to adopt a law that would benefit the largest number of illegal immigrants.

None of the speakers at the San Jose news conference criticized Cedillo for
retreating on his own bill.

"At times it's necessary to take a small step backwards in order to take a large
step, or bigger step, forward," said Rogelio Rivera, president of the United
Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 428.

The conference was held outside the Alfred E. Alquist State Building -- which is
named after the former state senator, a Democrat who 10 years ago wrote the law
to limit licenses to legal residents.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Cedillo
State senator seeks checks on all motorists.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 24, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MIGRANTS RESCUED;
MUDSLIDES FEARED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 74 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Dozens of illegal migrants were found shivering and soaked by a storm that
continued to pound Southern California on Monday as residents prepared for
possible mudslides in areas scorched bare by last fall's wildfires.

U.S. Border Patrol agents rescued 31 men and women early Sunday who were hiking
through the mountains east of San Diego and poorly dressed for the snow. Two
other migrants were found early Monday in similar conditions.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 25, 2004 Sunday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

SIGNATURE DRIVE TO SUPPORT IMMIGRANT DRIVER'S LICENSES

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 161 words


Activists have started a signature drive to show support for state legislation
that would allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver'slicenses.

"Allowing all California motorists to become licensed will increase public
safety for everyone by making it possible for immigrants to become trained,
tested and insured," said Cary Sanders, policy director at the Services,
Immigrant Rights and Education Network in San Jose.

Last year, former Gov. Gray Davis signed a bill allowing illegal immigrants to
get driver's licenses, but it was repealed under incoming Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger.

The effort is being led by The San Jose Driver's License Action Network, a
coalition of labor and faith-based community groups, including SIREN, that came
together to support the legislation before it was repealed. Members have already
has collected nearly 5,000 signatures, and they hopes to get 25,000 more to
deliver to Schwarzenegger on by May 20, Sanders said.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 16, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL FOR ILLEGAL ENTRANTS ADVANCES IN SENATE

BYLINE: JIM WASSERMAN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 185 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


A bill allowing an estimated 2 million illegal-immigrant drivers in California
to get legal driver's licenses cleared a Senate committee Tuesday, which was the
bill's first hurdle in the Legislature.

The latest attempt to make illegal immigrants eligible for the licenses, the
bill (SB 1160) would require applicants who cannot prove legal residency in
California to be fingerprinted, undergo background checks and get adult
sponsors. Illegal immigrants would pay $146 for a license to cover extra costs.

Senate Transportation Committee Democrats favored the bill, while Republicans
opposed the fourth attempt since 2001 by Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, to
overturn a 1994 ban on licenses for those who cannot prove they live legally in
California. The bill passed 6-3.

The Democrat's newest attempt must pass the full Senate and Assembly by Aug. 31
and be signed by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger by Sept. 30 to become law.

Schwarzenegger has already expressed reservations about the bill, saying he
prefers that licenses be specially marked to indicate the holder is an illegal
immigrant.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 30, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S., MEXICO OK PLAN TO RETURN ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 94 words


Mexico has agreed to take part in a program beginning July 12 that will provide
free flights home for illegal Mexican immigrants arrested in the Arizona desert,
U.S. officials said Tuesday.

Officials hope the program will reduce both deaths in the Southwestern desert
and the attempts by illegal immigrants to enter the United States.

Mexico agreed in mid-June to the program announced this month by the Homeland
Security Department.

Under the agreement, the voluntary "repatriation" plan would end no later than
Sept. 30, the agency said Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           January 10, 2004 Saturday

Bush immigrant proposal addresses overdue issue

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 646 words


ECONOMICS has long provided a rationale for documenting and regulating the flow
of immigrant workers into the United States, but the Sept. 11 attacks created a
sense of urgency for a sensible guest-worker program that would also act as a
dependable tracking system. President Bush's proposal to give legal status to
millions of undocumented workers represents a way of achieving both goals.

Under the president's plan, undocumented workers would be permitted to obtain
work visas for three years. The visas would be renewable for an unspecified
period if the workers could show that they have jobs and their employers certify
that no Americans can be hired to do the work.

While registered under Bush's temporary-worker program, such immigrants would be
entitled to all employee benefits -- such as a minimum wage and due process --
that should be available to all employees. Better still, the proposal affords
immigrant workers paying into our nation's Social Security system the
distributions upon retirement that all who pay into the program should enjoy.

One goal of many immigrant workers is the opportunity to obtain permanent
residency and citizenship. The president's plan pragmatically acknowledges that
demand by calling for an increase in the number of green cards Washington issues
-- currently

475,000 a year -- that can lead to citizenship.

Critics say the Bush plan would have to result in a hefty increase in the number
of green cards issued to permit even a fraction of the millions of people
eligible for the guest-worker program a chance at citizenship. The exact number
of green cards to be issued is a matter the White House has sensibly left up to
Congress to decide. "America is a welcoming country, but citizenship must not be
the automatic reward for violating the laws of America," Bush reasonably
concluded in his pledge to work with Congress to determine the new annual number
of green cards.

Another criticism leveled at the White House plan is that most workers would be
reluctant to join the plan because they would risk deportation after their
temporary legal status expired. But the plan provides for an element of
stability with the right of temporary workers to apply for a renewed stay --
another subject to be hammered out in negotiations between the president and
Congress. A potentially key incentive is the fact that the plan dangles Social
Security benefits before immigrants who join the temporary worker program.

Should undocumented immigrant workers insist on not joining the guest-worker
program they will signal their intention to retain their illegal status -- and,
under the circumstances, be subject to deportation.

A cynical take on the Bush plan focuses on the political gain the president
stands to reap among Hispanics this November with his proposal's enactment.
Critics point out that Bush waited until the filing deadline for the New
Hampshire primary passed before submitting his guest-worker proposal --
precluding a challenge from the right. In fairness, though, the president
floated a similar package two years ago -- just before the Sept. 11 attacks.

Indeed, prior to 9-11, the push for immigration reform seemed almost inexorable
as Bush developed a strong bond with his Mexican counterpart Vicente Fox. Both
leaders openly talked about the need for fine-tuning immigration from Mexico.
The president's current initiative breathes new life into an issue of prime
importance to Fox and should help improve U.S.-Mexican relations.

The United States depends on immigrant workers to get food to our tables, clean
hotel rooms, process meat at packing plants and perform an array of other vital
duties. The fact is that undocumented immigrants who perform these tasks already
contribute to our economy. The president's plan is a major step toward
recognizing and codifying that contribution.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              83 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           January 15, 2004 Thursday

Immigration plan deserves credit, criticism

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 350 words


PEOPLE die trying to sneak into the United States. Or they live here illegally,
working under the table. Their work feeds the economy, especially in sectors
full of jobs Americans won't take. They are lawbreakers who may also be parents
or relatives trying to send money home.

President Bush deserves credit for trying to bring order to this chaos and for
responding to the concerns of Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, who has sought
some protection for Mexicans in the United States. And Bush has wisely called
for increasing the number of green cards, which allow immigrants to live here,
and penalizing employers who violate immigration laws. But Bush's newly proposed
temporary guest worker program deserves the protest it has provoked.

Workers who participate would be granted legal status for three years. Renewal
would be possible but not guaranteed. Workers could apply for a green card and
citizenship as long as they are not favored over those who followed the rules.
Newcomers and those already working here illegally could apply. In the future,
only newcomers would be accepted. Bush staunchly opposes an amnesty program,
arguing that it would encourage people to break the law.>

The problem is the three-year time limit. Some workers may know that they want
their time in the United States to be brief. But others won't commit to possible
deportation: They may decide they're better off working illegally.Bringing
foreign workers here, benefiting from their boost to the economy and taking
taxes and Social Security from their checks, should earn them more than an Adios
at the end of three years. A better goal is legal permanent residency.

Bush's plan is a starting point. Now Congress has to debate the issue and cull
good ideas from pending legislation such as the Agricultural Job Opportunity,
Benefits, and Security Act, which calls in part for legalizing agricultural
workers, granting both temporary and permanent legal status.

Immigration reform should be thoughtful and fair. Human lives and national
economic well-being are at stake.

Boston Globe

Editorial

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              84 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 30, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLL: LATINOS SPLIT EVENLY ON PLAN FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 329 words


Latinos in the United States are divided on sweeping immigration reform proposed
earlier this month by President Bush, an election-year indicator that the
president's support among an important voting segment is far from sealed,
according to a national poll released Thursday.

"The jury's out in the
Latino community," Florida pollster Sergio Bendixen said.

An even split of Latinos supported and opposed the plan proposed by Bush to give
temporary legal status to millions of undocumented workers in the United States,
according to the poll commissioned by the New California Media and funded by the
James Irvine Foundation.

Bush's plan would also allow unskilled foreign workers to come into the United
States on temporary work permits and require them to return to their home
countries.

"The president made a good impression with Latinos on this proposal, but they
seem to think the proposal is incomplete," Bendixen said. "They prefer an
alternative proposal that has a path to citizenship."

Three out of four Latinos surveyed said they knew about the Bush proposal. But
after being informed of some of the details, the number of Latinos who opposed
more than doubled: from 20 to 45 percent.

The poll is one of a series of surveys New California Media will conduct this
year to "give voice in public discourse to communities that have beenvery much
left out of public opinion polling," said Sandy Close, the non-profit
organization's executive director.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
LATINO REACTION TO  IMMIGRATION PLAN
Latinos are divided over PresidentBush's immigration proposal.
.....................................
Supportimmigrationproposal
45%
.....................................
Opposeimmigrationproposal
45%
.....................................
Don't know/NA
10%
The poll has a margin or error of plus or  minus three percentage points.
Source: New California Media poll

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 14, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SCAM ARTISTS WELCOME GUEST-WORKER PROPOSAL

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 63 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


President Bush's proposal to create a temporary guest-worker program has already
created a job boom. Unfortunately, it's among scam artists.

Unscrupulous notary publics, lawyers and so-called "immigration experts" have
capitalized on confusion about Bush's proposed program by selling services and
"enrollment" documents to unsuspecting illegal immigrants, activists said.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 30, 2003 Tuesday

Lantos comes to aid of constituents

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 323 words


COMING to the aid of a threatened San Bruno family, U.S. Rep. Tom Lantos, D-San
Mateo, has demonstrated his compassion for constituents of the 12th District of
California. Maria and Alfredo Plascencia came to the United States 15 years ago
on legal work visas, settled here and raised a family of four children [all born
in San Mateo County].

Following the advice of their immigration lawyer, the Plascencia's applied for
permanent residency by seeking asylum. They followed the rules as laid out by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. But the rules changed in mid-stream
after the Clinton administration invoked the Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996.

Long story short: that shift in policy threw additional hurdles in the way of
the Plascencias' application, and they were rejected. After a long series of
appeals and other bureaucratic difficulties, the INS deemed the Plascencias were
here illegally and subject to deportation back to Mexico. That move would have
torn the parents from their children.

Lantos intervened by contacting the director of detention and removal at the
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Washington, D.C. Lantos won the
Plascencias a six-month reprieve from deportation -- time enough for the San
Mateo federal lawmaker to introduce a private bill in Congress that may win the
family permanent residency in the United States on the grounds of extenuating
circumstances.

By coming to the assistance of the Plascencia family, Tom Lantos did what we
hope all lawmakers will do -- see past the rigidity of institutional law and
recognize the needs of individuals. Humanity and compassion is what we expect of
our representatives in Washington, D.C., where reality is so easily lost in the
surreal hurly-burly of special interests. Lantos doesn't see illegals, or
taxpayers, or even lobbyists. He sees people. And we're the better for it.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              87 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             January 5, 2004 Monday

Khanna questions Lantos' good act

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 899 words


It was a stirring effort that showed the best side of politics: Congressman Tom
Lantos personally intervened to save a San Bruno couple from being deported to
Mexico and separated from their four U.S.-born children.

Alfredo and Maria Plascencia's story, which broke just before Christmas,
generated gushing headlines for Lantos, such as "A Christmas Miracle." It was a
generous act -- and the perfect holiday boost for a politician in a re-election
year.

But a closer look, according to the campaign of Lantos' opponent Ro Khanna,
reveals a more nuanced truth -- Lantos voted for the final version of a 1996
bill that is in part responsible for the Plascencias' plight.

The Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-bility Act lengthened the
time from 7 to 10 years that immigrants must remain in the United States before
applying for permanent lawful resident status.

The Plascencias had applied for the designation before the law was enacted, but
had been in the country for less than 10 years. When the new law went into
effect, they no longer met the criteria, and deportation proceedings began
against them.

"They got stuck when the law went into play," said Nancy Roeser, an attorney for
the couple.

Lantos voted against the House version of the omnibus bill that contained the
immigration legislation, but voted for the final bill after it had been reworked
by a House and Senate conference committee, according to Congressional records.
Lantos also voted against an earlier stand-alone version of the immigration
bill.

Lantos' communication director, Lynne Weil, said it is unfair to say Lantos
supported the immigration legislation because it was just one piece of a larger
bill that contained assistance for victims of the Oklahoma City bombing,
environmental benefits for the Bay and other provisions.

"An omnibus bill, as Mr. Khanna and his surrogates ought to know, addresses a
great variety of government functions at once, and can provide funding for
programs ranging from public education reform to international commerce," Weil
said. "It is misleading at best to suggest that a vote for the whole bill comes
down to an endorsement of one specific part."

Buck-making and muckraking

That sound you hear could be Ted Lempert and Joe Simitian sharpening their
knives for the March Democratic primary race in the 11th State Senate District.

Ted Lempert's campaign is crying foul after taking a peek at Assemblyman
Simitian's campaign expenditure records.

The forms show Simitian's campaign has spent more than $45,000 on campaign
consulting firm Varoga, Rice and Shallet, Inc. -- a firm Lempert's campaign said
specializes in digging up dirt on opponents.

"We have no choice but to believe [Simitian's] planning a high-spending,
break-the-cap negative campaign," said Michael Terris, a campaign consultant for
Lempert.

If it is true, it would be a truly collosal sum to spend on opposition research
for a State Senate campaign and might indicate just how hot this closely
contested race will be.

Simitian said not so fast. Although he said he would spend money on opposition
research, Simitian said it would be inaccurate to say the Varoga funds went only
to dig up dirt.

Indeed, Varoga's Web site shows they perform a range of campaign services from
strategizing to media training. Simitian would not say how much money his
campaign was spending on opposition research.

"I think we ought to be talking about things that matter," Simitian said.
"Things such as education and saving the environment."

For the record, Terris said Lempert's campaign will spend about $10,000 on
opposition research.

A party of one

Michael Moloney denounces George W. Bush. He rails against the Iraq war and
plugs a left-wing Democrat for Congress every chance he gets.

The positions would be run-of-the-mill for your average Democratic activist, but
Moloney's a card-carrying Republican and the party's former nominee to run in
the 12th Congressional District.

The politician has been on a strange political odyssey since he had a falling
out with the local Republican Party a year ago over allegedly racist remarks he
made in a debate with Congressman Tom Lantos.

"I am a Republican in exile," Moloney said proudly. "I don't consider George
Bush a Republican. He's increased the debt, launched a pre-emptive war and
increased entitlements."

Moloney doesn't save his vitriol for Bush alone. He said the Grand Ole Party has
been hijacked by the religious right or the "Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson
gang" as he warmly calls them.

Moloney has gone beyond just rhetoric -- he spends most Saturdays protesting the
Iraq war in front of Lantos' office. He's also vigorously campaigning for Maad
Abu-Ghazalah, an anti-war candidate and Democrat, who is running in the March
primary against Lantos.

It's safe to say the Republicans probably won't tap Moloney again to run in the
12th District.

Nevin backs Dean

County Supervisor Mike Nevin is endorsing Howard Dean for president. He is the
first Supervisor to back a candidate in the 2004 election. A Nevin aide said the
Supervisor admired Dean's leadership and courage in supporting equal rights for
all people regardless of race, gender or sexual orientation.

The Insider is compiled by Justin Jouvenal. To drop a tip, call 348-4331 or
e-mail insider@sanmateocountytimes.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              88 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             April 25, 2004 Sunday

Government secretive on Patriot Act;
Study says Muslims, Arabs shouldering majority of burden

BYLINE: By Melissa Evans, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: FREMONT


Muslim and Arab groups in California have borne a "substantial" share of
scrutiny through new laws and immigration policies enacted in the wake of the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, ac- cording to a report by the state Senate
Office of Research.

Requested by two Fremont lawmakers, the report analyzes controversial portions
of the USA Patriot Act, which expanded the government's policing powers. The law
includes special registration requirements for Arab men and new laws regarding
foreign students.

Researchers, however, found it difficult to get information. The Department of
Justice Office of Inspector General "would not divulge instances of abuse," ac-
cording to the report. And researchers were told the government does not answer
questions on individual cases of those found in violation of immigration law.

Leaders in the Muslim community are not surprised. The lack of information has a
created a culture of "fear, anger, anxiety and frustration," said Samina Faheem,
a local civil rights activist.

"Then they have the nerve to say [the new laws] haven't affected anybody," said
Faheem, founder of an organization called American Muslim Voice.

State Sen. Liz Figueroa, D-Fremont, and Assemblyman John Dutra, D-Fremont,
requested the report after receiving numerous complaints from individuals and
Muslim civil rights

groups.

A spokesman for Figueroa's office also said the request stemmed from the number
of cities and counties that have passed resolutions opposing the USA Patriot
Act.

In California, 206 municipalities -- including Alameda County and Union City --
have urged lawmakers to reconsider the legislation, which was passed 45 days
after the Sept. 11 attacks.

Dutra said he plans to hold a series of hearings this year to gather more
evidence on the effects of the government's new policies.

"It's very disturbing to hear about what appears to be ethnic profiling in the
Muslim community," he said.

"These are American citizens and individuals who deserve respect."

Refers to anecdotes in report

Dutra was referring to several anecdotes contained in the report, including one
story of a Middle Eastern man who was detained for 21 days after receiving an
e-mail hinting of terrorist activity, which he reported to authorities. The man
still faces the possibility of deportation.

Similar stories can be found throughout the state, local leaders say.

"People's lives are being ruined," said Fremont resident Moina Shaiq, who is
active in several civil rights groups.

"If you detain someone on evidence, you need to try them in court and go through
due process."

Though researchers found it tough to gather hard numbers on effects of the USA
Patriot Act, they were able to gather data regarding the special registration of
men from 25 Arab countries -- a program that began in 2002 but has been
disbanded.

More than 93,000 ordered to register

The report shows 93,741 men were ordered to register across the country, with
13,799 ordered into deportation proceedings and 143 charged with criminal
activity.

The Senate Office of Research is the bipartisan research and strategic planning
unit of the state Senate. The full report can be found at www.sen.ca.us/sor

Staff writer Melissa Evans covers religion and culture for The Argus. She can be
reached at [510] 353-7005 or papers.com">mevans@angnews-

papers.com .

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              89 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             June 19, 2004 Saturday

Sen. Feinstein's bill helps family stay in America

BYLINE: By Justin Jouvenal, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 409 words


Less than a week before a San Bruno family is evicted from the country they've
called home for 16 years, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., has introduced a bill
to let them stay in the United States.

The legislation would provide permanent legal status for Alfredo and Maria
Plascencia, two undocumented immigrants from Mexico who were scheduled to be
deported on June 23. The couple's four children were born in the United States.

The plight of the family, who fell through the cracks of the immigration system,
has aroused the sympathies of the local community and Congressman Tom Lantos,
D-San Mateo, who fought on their behalf. The family's plight touched Feinstein,
as well.

"I have decided to offer legislation on their behalf because I believe that
without it, this hardworking couple and their four

United States citizen children would endure immense and unfair hardship,"
Feinstein said Friday on the floor of the U.S. Senate.

The Plascencias carved out a life for themselves since immigrating to the United
States in 1988 on work visas. They purchased a home, had children and paid taxes
every year. But things went downhill in 1996 when the couple applied for
permanent residency.

Congress had enacted new immigration legislation, known as the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act, that increased the number
of years immigrants had to be residents of the United States before becoming
citizens.

The Plascencias had only been in this country for seven years, but now needed to
be here for 10 years. They applied for asylum before the bill became law, but
they no longer met the new criteria and deportation proceedings began against
them.

Years of appeals and legal battles ensued. It appeared the couple would be
deported last year, until Lantos stepped in with legislation that allowed the
family to stay in the country an extra six months.

Lantos contacted Feinstein and made a case that the Plascencia family should
stay.

"The Plascencias have been caught in an unfortunate bureaucratic trap; my
intervention brought the Plascencias and their lawyers six months to seek
alternative solutions," Lantos said in a statement. "Now that this period is
about to be exhausted, Senator Feinstein's efforts could not come at a better
time."

The Plascencias could not be reached for comment.

Staff writer Justin Jouvenal can be reached at [650] 348-4331 or
jjouvenal@sanmateocountytimes.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              90 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             August 6, 2004 Friday

New airport system to offer greater national security

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 376 words


BEGINNING next month, foreign visitors coming to the United States through San
Francisco International Airport will be asked to offer digital fingerprints and
a photograph to help immigration officials ensure they leave the country within
the time frame of their permitted visit. In the end, only one -- either the
fingerprints or photo -- will be used, but authorities are testing the two
methods to determine which is best.

Assuming the information is not abused and used for purposes other than that for
which it is intended, this method of tracking visitors is a prudent move to
further safeguard the nation -- a welcome step pushed forward by the Department
of Homeland Security with the United States Visitor and Immigrant Status
Indicator Technology, or US-VISIT.

If you'll recall, most of the hijackers who executed the horrific attack on the
World Trade Center and Pentagon in 2001 were foreign visitors who had overstayed
their visas. Like a stark wake-up call, it became all too clear this country
needed a better method of ensuring those visitors we welcome as tourists,
students and business travelers leave the country when their time is up. For too
long it has been relatively simple to evade the Immigration and Naturalization
Service once someone is safely inside U.S. borders.

Now, however, by having visitors check in upon arrival, our authorities will
have an active database of who has arrived and whether they departed on
schedule.

Ultimately, whichever system is chosen is scheduled to be in place at 80
airports by 2005 to screen some 34 million visitors each year.

The beauty of the US-VISIT system is that it allows authorities to keep tabs on
visitors without the omnipresent supervision that became a hallmark of communist
regimes during the Cold War.

Even today, visitors to Vietnam, Cuba and China must check in with the local
police station near their hotel. By contrast, visitors coming to the United
States are free to do as they please and travel freely without supervision.

What this boils down to is little more than an unbiased check-in/check-out
system much like that at a hotel. If something as unobtrusive as that can offer
this country greater security in an age of insecurity, we'll take it.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              91 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 15, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION VISA ISSUE DOGS SCHWARZENEGGER;
DEMOS LEADER DEMANDS ACTOR RELEASE FILES

BYLINE: DION NISSENBAUM, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 716 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


California's top Democratic Party official called Sunday for Republican Arnold
Schwarzenegger to release his immigration records and address whether he abused
immigration rules when he came to the United States in 1968.

The call from Chairman Art Torres came in response to an article in Saturday's
Mercury News that raised the issue of whether the actor improperly earned a
salary in violation of his visa.

"The only way for him to clear this up is to release all his records and tell us
how much he was paid," Torres said. "He has to address this."

In his autobiography, Schwarzenegger said that he was paid a weekly salary when
he came to California -- an arrangement a half-dozen immigration attorneys said
his visa would have barred. But the actor's spokesman said last week that he
does not recall receiving a salary.

After accepting an endorsement Sunday in Costa Mesa from a state firefighters
group, Schwarzenegger ignored a reporter who tried to question him about the
issue.

Schwarzenegger spokesman Sean Walsh later brushed off Torres' demand.

"He has complied with every regulation by the U.S. government on immigration,"
Walsh said. "The Democrats can't stand the fact that we have an immigrant
success story, and they feel compelled to tear everybody down instead of
offering something positive for this state."

The actor, who was born in Austria and came to the United States when he was 21,
has made his Horatio Alger story a cornerstone of his campaign for governor. And
immigration has become a major issue in the Oct. 7 recall election of Democratic
Gov. Gray Davis.

Schwarzenegger has faced persistent criticism for supporting Proposition 187, a
1994 ballot measure that sought to keep illegal immigrants from receiving some
state social services. In defending his vote, Schwarzenegger has said that
immigrants must follow the rules like he did.

In his autobiography and in articles over the decades, Schwarzenegger said he
was paid a weekly salary when he first came to share training secrets and write
articles as part of a business deal with Joe Weider, a legendary figure in the
bodybuilding world.

That would have been a violation of the B-1 visa he obtained to enter the United
States, said a half-dozen immigration attorneys. Visa rules state that "a
non-immigrant in B-1 status may not receive a salary from a U.S. source for
services rendered in connection with his or her activities in the United
States."

Walsh confirmed last month that Schwarzenegger was paid a weekly salary, but
last week he said the bodybuilder had an informal arrangement to ask Weider's
business for money when he needed it. And after confirming last month that he
paid the bodybuilder a $200-a-week salary, Weider said last week that he could
not remember the details of the business deal.

On Sunday, Walsh declined to release the actor's immigration records.
Schwarzenegger attorney Tom Hiltachk said last week the file is not detailed
enough to clear up questions.

Torres said questions about the actor's visa are part of a pattern by
Schwarzenegger of disavowing his previous statements, citing the actor's
decision to take money from big business after insisting that he did not need to
collect campaign donations.

"This gets back to the issue of character and a pattern of saying one thing and
then doing another," he said. "You have to be able to answer these questions or
you're not ready for prime time."

Schwarzenegger created a minor stir Sunday when he picked up an endorsement from
the California State Firefighters Association, a group with about 28,000 members
that had endorsed Davis in 1998 and 2002.

The association's board divided 5-4 on the vote and created a rift among members
that sparked immediate calls to rescind the endorsement.

"There is dissension among our organization," said Benicia firefighter Gene
Gantt, who supports Democratic Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante in his bid to replace
Davis if he is recalled.

Several members who heard the speech expressed skepticism.

"I won't vote for Arnold," said Randy Hicks, an acting battalion chief from
Costa Mesa who is leaning toward conservative state Sen. Tom McClintock. "I just
don't think he has the political savvy. I'd like to see someone who has a past
in politics."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE RECALL
WHO SHOULD LEAD CALIFORNIA?

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DEBBIE VANSTORY -- KNIGHT RIDDER
Arnold Schwarzenegger mingles in the crowd after addressing a state firefighters
group in Costa Mesa on Sunday.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 17, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISA, LICENSE ISSUES PURSUE CANDIDATE;
SCHWARZENEGGER INSISTS HE DIDN'T VIOLATE VISA LAWS IN '68 IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


With about 200 immigrant Americans on hand to help him celebrate his 20th
anniversary as a U.S. citizen, Arnold Schwarzenegger on Tuesday defended his
stance on immigrant-rights issues, including his opposition to driver's licenses
for undocumented workers, and slammed the court opinion possibly delaying the
recall election.

He also answered questions for the first time about his own visa status 35 years
ago.

The Mercury News reported last week that Schwarzenegger may have violated the
terms of his visa when he first came to the United States in 1968 by collecting
a salary while working and training in California. Immigration attorneys said
the arrangement, as it has long been described by Schwarzenegger and the man who
brought him to America, would have been barred under the terms of his original
visa.

After at first confirming the business arrangement, the Schwarzeneggercampaign
said the candidate could not recall receiving a salary and said the actor had
always complied with immigration law.

'Trust me' on visa

Asked by the Mercury News about the visa question Tuesday, he defended his
immigration record, saying of the particular visa he had: "It's specifically
designed for professional athletes to travel around the world. They can receive
money."

Asked about revealing his full immigration records, he said, "It's available. .
. . Don't worry about it, there's nothing there that you will discover that is
kind of unusual or shaky. Trust me."

Schwarzenegger's campaign, which has refused to allow reporters to review the
file, said later that the candidate promised only to make available documents
that apply to questions being raised about his visa status, and that there were
none in the file.

More than a dozen ethnic community groups invited people to attend Tuesday's
event, Schwarzenegger's third "Ask Arnold" town-hall forum. The gathering was
held in the same gym at the Hollenbeck Youth Center in the Boyle Heights area of
East Los Angeles where he had launched his Inner-City Games after-school
program.

Jorge Olamendi of Dana Point told Schwarzenegger that denying licenses to
illegal immigrants "puts us in jeopardy" because people will drive without
registration or insurance. "I believe that people are entitled to have a
driver's license . . . regardless of where they come from."

Schwarzenegger, who opposes the bill signed by Gov. Gray Davis granting licenses
to illegal immigrants, said that while he respected Olamendi's opinion, "I don't
believe we should hand out driver's licenses without any background checks."

Schwarzenegger said he supports proposed federal legislation by U.S. Sen. John
McCain, R-Ariz., that prescribes a step-by-step process of first gaining a
temporary worker's permit and later a permanent worker's permit, at which point
people could get their driver's licenses.

The candidate also took a shot at the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which
Monday issued a ruling that, if it stands, will push the recall election back to
March.

"I cannot believe that the court can interfere. . . . I mean, the people make
the decision: Do we want a recall?" he said. "It was very clear. It was set up
for Oct. 7."

Schwarzenegger said he plans to continue campaigning as if the election will be
Oct. 7.

About reports that fellow Republican Bill Simon may consider re-entering the
race should the recall be postponed until March, he said: "I don't think about
any of that. I'm thinking of Oct. 7."

While a Simon representative said he might re-enter the race, Simon himself
said: "It's possible. But I honestly haven't thought about it." Peter Ueberroth,
the other notable GOP candidate who has pulled out of the race, told the Los
Angeles Times on Tuesday that he definitely would not get back in.

Concerns 'ignored'

While Schwarzenegger has embraced his immigrant roots in the campaign, critics
say he has paid little attention to concerns of immigrants. He has said he would
lead a campaign to repeal the driver's license legislation, saying the measure
jeopardizes national security.

He also is on the board of U.S. English, a national group that advocates making
English the official language of the United States. Schwarzenegger also lists
that goal on mailers he is sending to California GOP voters.

About two dozen protesters holding "Stop the Recall" signs and shouting,
"Bustamante, Bustamante" demonstrated outside the event. Among them was Dolores
Huerta, a founder of the United Farm Workers who was just appointed a University
of California Regent by Gov. Davis.

The guests inside left the meeting with mixed opinions.

Mike Husain, a Fountain Valley small-business man and a Democrat who emigrated
as a child from Bethlehem, said he wanted to hear more specifics,"the mechanical
steps of how he's going to make the economy better, not just the rhetoric."

But Valerie Wong, a Monterey Park Democrat whose parents emigrated from Asia,
said: "He understands us; we're all in the same boat."

Elsewhere in Southern California, state Sen. Tom McClintock appeared at a Santa
Monica news conference with Ueberroth, who left the governor's race last week.
Ueberroth met with McClintock and Schwarzenegger separately Tuesday to discuss
the state's economic situation. Each is seeking his endorsement.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Dawn Chmielewski contributed to this report.
THE RECALL
WHO SHOULD LEAD CALIFORNIA?

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RIC FRANCIS -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
State Sen. Tom McClintock, left, and Peter Ueberroth are escorted to a news
conference Tuesday in Santa Monica. Ueberroth also met with gubernatorial
candidate Arnold Schwarzenegger.
PHOTO: REED SAXON -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Arnold Schwarzenegger signs autographs after a campaign event Tuesday in Los
Angeles.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 19, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

BROTHERS GET REPRIEVE IN DEPORTATION CASE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 523 words


Two San Jose brothers who were ordered to leave the country after enlisting in a
national security registration program got what they hoped for Thursday: A San
Francisco immigration judge delayed their deportation hearing by a year, paving
the way for the teens to become legal U.S. residents.

The Department of Homeland Security, following a Mercury News story that
chronicled the plight of Ahmad and Hassan Amin, took the unusual step of asking
for the delay, which will allow the brothers time to qualify for temporary visas
while waiting for approval of their green card application. They applied for
green cards two years ago, but processing has been delayed by a backlog.

The decision means Ahmad, 18, and Hassan Amin, 19, can get back to the business
of studying for SATs, attending football practice and planning for college
without the fear of being forced to return to Pakistan and leave their mother
and older brother behind.

"I'll be able to finish high school and graduate," Ahmad, a senior at Cupertino
High School, said outside the immigration courtroom Thursday.

"Maybe I can think about a university," said Hassan, a student at De Anza
College who hopes to transfer to a four-year college.

The brothers came to the United States in 1998 with their mother, Tahira Manzur,
to reunite with their older brother, who is an American citizen. Their visitor
visas expired about a year later while their mother was applying for a green
card. The family says, based on bad legal advice, Ahmad and Hassan Amin did not
apply for green cards at the time even though they qualified.

"It's a relief," Manzur said.

The Amin brothers were among 13,000 men and boys from primarily Middle Eastern
and Muslim countries facing deportation after voluntarily coming forward for a
national-security registration program for foreign visitors.

Government officials have said the heightened security has caught suspected
terrorists. But legal and immigrant advocates argue that many immigrants like
the Amin brothers are being penalized for minor violations that probably would
have been settled quickly before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

On Thursday, the hearing for the Amin brothers seemed routine until Peter
Vincent, assistant chief counsel for the Department of Homeland Security, asked
Judge Pham-Quang Tue to delay the case until Aug. 3, 2004.

"I don't know whether this is good news or bad news," Tue said.

"It's good news, your honor," Vincent replied, leading the brothers, who sat
quietly next to each other, to break into smiles.

Banafshe Akhlaghi, the attorney representing the Amin brothers, said she plans
to ask immigration officials to drop a requirement that Ahmad report to the
Citizenship and Immigration Service office in San Francisco once a month.

She also hopes the temporary visas will be processed before the new hearing
date, allowing the brothers to remain in the country legally as they wait to
become permanent residents.

"This is what we've been asking for," Akhlaghi said. "That they not paint a
broad brush and label every immigrant that goes before them a terrorist."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 2003

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 09/20/03, pg. 2A)
A front-page article Friday about two San Jose brothers facing deportation to
Pakistan misspelled the name of immigration lawyer Banafsheh Akhlaghi.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Ahmad Amin, left, and Hassan Amin.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 30, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEES TO RISE SOON FOR CITIZENSHIP APPLICATIONS

BYLINE: SUZANNE GAMBOA, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 247 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration officials are planning to raise fees for citizenship applications
and other services, hoping to offset the costs of increased security checks.

Russ Knocke, Citizenship and Immigration Services spokesman, said the agency has
told immigration groups to anticipate a fee increase, but he said the final
amount has not been decided.

Immigration advocates said the agency told them that an increase of about $15 in
application fees would be announced in the first or second week of October and
take effect about a month later.

A permanent resident currently pays $260, plus a $50 fingerprinting fee, to
become a citizen. An immigrant over the age of 14 must pay $255 to apply for
permanent residency or what is known as a green card, and the $50 fingerprinting
fee.

The increases will help cover additional costs for checking names and
fingerprints against intelligence databases and to cover cost-of-living
increases, Knocke said.

Since January, the agency has been rechecking names of immigrants who are
nearing naturalization for any new information since they first applied.
Applicants often wait a year or more for their applications to be completed.

"We are not cutting any corners on national security, and we are not cutting any
corners on background checks. We are doing the job, and we are doing it right.
There is a need for resources, and this fee increase or potential fee increase
is one possible remedy," Knocke said.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 1, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ADOPTING GRANDCHILDREN COULD BE A LONG PROCESS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA AND JESSIE MANGALIMAN, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 578 words


Q
My son and I have been permanent residents for 12 years. But my son didn't want
to live in the United States, so he stayed in Guatemala. Later, when he lost his
green card, he made no effort to renew it. Today my son is married and has three
children -- and he suffers from a terminal illness. I'd like to know if I could
adopt my grandchildren, who are 11, 10 and 4 years old, and bring them here to
live with me. My daughter-in-law is in favor of my request.

Maricarmen
Santa Cruz
A
Your question has two parts, one about adoption and the other about immigration.
Both actions could take a while to complete, so it's good to decide on your
plan, and begin the process soon.

To learn about the prospects for adopting your grandchildren, you should first
check with an attorney in Guatemala who specializes in that process.

Ning Gan, an immigration attorney in San Jose, said there are several steps to
consider when applying for immigration benefits for the children.

The children must be adopted before they turn 16, so you're OK with that
prerequisite. But before you can bring them, immigration laws require that you
have legal custody of the children, and that you live with them, for two years.
(This two-year period can take place before or after the adoption, although it
would be difficult to bring them before they are adopted.)

Once the two years are up, you can submit an application for residency for the
children. You may run into a delay if you are not yet a citizen. Obtaining their
entry visa into the United States could take up to five years if you're a
permanent resident. Younger children of citizens, on the other hand, can obtain
visas immediately.

Q
My 71-year-old father came to the United States on a visitor's visa on May 16,
1993. As a parent of a U.S. citizen, he got his green card on June 14, 1994.

He was outside the United States, with permission from the immigration service,
from June 1994 to October 1996 and from September 1997 to November 1999. He has
been in the United States since.

When does he qualify to apply for naturalization? Thank you.

Raj Singh
San Jose
A
Each of your father's two absences of more than two years breaks the "continuous
presence" requirement that is necessary to apply for naturalization, said
Shyamala T. Rajender, a San Francisco immigration lawyer.

Your father has to be living in the United States for five continuous years from
the time of his last return in November 1999 to qualify, Rajender said. The
years before his last absence of more than one year will not count toward the
five-year "continuous residence" requirement, Rajender said.

As long as your father doesn't leave the country, he will qualify to apply for
citizenship in November 2004. He can apply for naturalization 90 days before
that date, in August 2004, Rajender said.

Fees going up: Fees for citizenship applications, green cards, fingerprinting
and other services will increase this month, Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services officials announced this week.

The agency is considering raising fees to pay for the cost of new security
checks and cost-of-living increases, a bureau official told the Associated
Press.

National immigration advocates said they've been told by officials that fees
will be raised by $15. The amounts of the fees increases, however, have not been
officially determined. They will be announced later this month and take effect
in November.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 7, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ROLE MODELS: THE AVITIAS;
'DYNAMO' FAMILY

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 279 words


The Hispanic Charity Ball is not only a big bash; it's a celebration of family.

Each year, the Hispanic Foundation of Silicon Valley honors a family that serves
as a role model, in their relationships with one another and in their service to
the community. This year, the family of Consuelo and Carlos Avitia of San Jose,
whom the foundation describes as a "dynamo of action," will receive the coveted
La Familia Award.

For four decades, Mexican-born Carlos Avitia has been an advocate for
immigrants' and workers' rights, as a volunteer, a board member of the South Bay
Labor Council and president of his union local. He was a founder of Services,
Immigrant Rights and Education Network and is a diversity trainer for the
Immigration Action Network.

Consuelo Avitia was a parent volunteer at Gardner and Ruskin elementary schools,
has taught catechism classes in her church and, since 1995, has served on the
Santa Clara County Commission on the Status of Women. A city worker, she
coordinates the annual Second Harvest food drive at City Hall.

The parents passed on the ethic of service to their two daughters. Cindy, who is
now in Santa Clara Law School, has helped hundreds of immigrants achieve
citizenship and work through hassles with the INS through her work with the East
San Jose Community Law Center and leads workshops on domestic violence. Sonia,
who works for state Sen. John Vasconcellos, has been a volunteer at the Mexican
Heritage Museum.

"Our parents were always willing to lend a hand to anyone. For us, it's been
something natural," Cindy told Nuevo Mundo.

On Saturday, it's the Avitias who get a big hand, for all of their good work.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: page 8B.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: HISPANIC FOUNDATION OF SILICON VALLEY
The Avitia family, from left, Cindy, Consuelo, Carlos and Sonia.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 22, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WORKER SAYS BOSS PRETENDED TO BE LAWYER;
SHE TESTIFIES AGAINST COUPLE ACCUSED OF BILKING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 561 words


During the time he filed immigration papers for her, and during the three months
she worked for him as a Spanish translator, Jessica Boda thought her boss, Noel
Ramayrat, was a licensed lawyer.

But at a preliminary hearing Tuesday in Santa Clara County Superior Court, Boda
testified that Ramayrat, 51, misrepresented himself as a lawyer, in a case
characterized by prosecutors as a "massive immigration fraud."

Noel Ramayrat, 51, and Mercedes Alcantara, 45, are charged with multiple counts
of grand theft, conspiracy, illegal immigration consulting, tax and insurance
fraud, and failure to pay taxes.

They are accused of bilking Filipino and Latino immigrants out of tens of
thousands of dollars, promising legal immigration status, work permits, green
cards and other immigration benefits to people who did not qualify for them.

The couple owned and operated two San Jose companies, Labor and Immigration
Consulting Group, or LICG, an immigration consulting firm; and EmpBase, an
employer recruitment agency that allegedly supplied undocumented workers to a
local travel agency.

Boda, a college student from Mexico who worked as a translator at LICG for three
months in 2001, testified Tuesday that she became worried about the nature of
the immigration work at the firm after receiving a letter from a San Francisco
law firm in April that year.

In the letter, a lawyer accused her of inappropriately giving legal advice. She
denied doing so. Ramayrat, she testified, dismissed the letter and remarked that
"it had been taken care of."

"When I got the letter I was upset and surprised," said Boda, a citizen of
Mexico who is married to a U.S. citizen.

Boda and her husband, Ted Boda, a graphics designer, had hired Ramayrat to help
her obtain legal immigration status. Before marrying, she was deported to Mexico
in 1999 after trying to cross the border without a visa.

She returned illegally to the United States that same year and married.

With Ramayrat's help, she got a temporary work permit from the federal
immigration agency, then called the Immigration and Naturalization Service. She
was also able to obtain a Social Security card, and later a driver's license.

But in November 2001, months after leaving LICG, Boda went to the INS office in
San Jose thinking she was going for an interview in the final process of getting
a green card.

Instead, she was handcuffed and deported to Monterrey, Mexico, for falsifying
immigration papers.

"I remember the date because it was my birthday," Ted Boda testified.

Jessica Boda has a one-year permit from the federal government to remain in the
United States during legal proceedings against Ramayrat and Alcantara.

Much of the Bodas' testimony Tuesday centered on charges that Ramayrat, who has
a law degree from the Philippines, misrepresented himself as a licensed lawyer
in the state to the Bodas and other immigrants.

Jessica Boda testified that during the time she worked at LICG, office workers
routinely referred to Ramayrat as an attorney.

At a seminar in a downtown San Jose restaurant once, Ramayrat was introduced to
the audience as a lawyer, Boda testified.

Deputy District Attorney Dale B. Lohman said she expects the hearing to last one
month, after which Judge Thomas C. Hastings will rule whether Ramayrat and
Alcantara will stand trial on the charges.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 8, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

'SLICK RICK' WALTERS FREED AFTER 17 MONTHS OF DETENTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 409 words


Rapper Ricky "Slick Rick" Walters was released from a Florida jail Friday, more
than 17 months after U.S. immigration officials moved to deport the British-born
star. Walters said he was relieved to be freed and intended to head home to his
wife and children in New York.

Walters' release was cleared a week ago by a federal judge, who ruled that the
Board of Immigration Appeals should never have reversed its earlier decision
that Walters could stay in the United States despite a criminal conviction for
attempted murder.

The rapper, best known for his solo platinum album, "The Great Adventures of
Slick Rick," was detained in June 2002 as he returned to Florida after a
weeklong gig aboard a cruise ship. His detainment came amid the
immigrationcrackdown after the Sept. 11 attacks.

As the months passed with 38-year-old Walters in jail south of Tampa, supporters
including comedian Chris Rock, actor Will Smith, record mogul Russell Simmons
and the Rev. Jesse Jackson spoke out about his case.

COLLABORATION OF NOTE: Ronald Isley singing "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head"?
Burt Bacharach, who wrote the Oscar-winning song, couldn't imagine it at first,
either. But now the rendition is on a new album on which Isley and Bacharach
collaborated, called "Here I Am."

"When Ronny came up with the idea and said, 'I want to do this song,' I thought,
'Oh, please,' " the 74-year-old composer said. Eventually, "We just sat at the
piano in my house. I played, Ronny sang. I had a tape running all the time."

The Isley Brothers' lead singer was wowed by working with Bacharach. "Listening
to that record now, I still don't believe it. I'm like, 'We did that in one
day?' " said Isley, 62.

QUEEN'S VIEWPOINT: Queen Noor of Jordan believes women are key to peace-building
efforts in the Middle East. "Women are left to pick up the shattered pieces of
society when a conflict is over," she told a crowd of about 2,000 people at
Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas. "If peace is truly to take place in
the Middle East, women must play a role."

EVERYBODY WILL KNOW HIS NAME: Ted Danson will put all those years of work behind
the fake "Cheers" bar to use behind a real bar. Danson, who played Sam Malone in
the hit comedy for 12 years, will be behind the bar and mingling with donors at
the Museum of Northern Arizona in Tucson tonight. His father, Edward B. "Ned"
Danson, became the director of the museum in 1959 when Ted was 12.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: People in the News

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2003

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 11/21/03, pg. 2A)
An item Nov. 8 in People about actor Ted Danson at the Museum of Northern
Arizona gave an incorrect location for the museum. It is in Flagstaff.

GRAPHIC: Photos (5);
PHOTO: CHIP LITHERLAND -- SARASOTA (FLA.) HERALD-TRIBUNE
Ricky "Slick Rick" Walters talks with his wife after leaving the Department of
Homeland Security jail in Bradenton, Fla.
PHOTO: Isley
PHOTO: Bacharach
PHOTO: Noor
PHOTO: Danson

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 4, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEPARTMENT SENSIBLY ENDS FORCED REGISTRATION POLICY

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 281 words


Finally, an immigration policy move that makes sense has emerged from the
Department of Homeland Security.

Immigration officials announced this week that the department will end its
forced registration policy, which required tens of thousands of men and boys
from 25 Middle Eastern, Asian and African countries to register with the
government as part of a tracking system to help fight the war on terror. It's
about time.

The heavy-handed policy had thrown the lives of thousands of immigrants -- from
an Oakland teacher, to a Santa Clara software engineer, to a Cupertino high
school student -- into upheaval.

The policy snared no terrorists-in-training, nor did it uncover terrorist
activity. It did result in about 13,000 immigrants facing deportation -- most
for technical visa violations that are typically resolved administratively.

Targeting immigrants who don't break the law has not made America safer. And
ignoring immigrants' rights did not reflect America's values of inclusion and
democracy or its reputation as a safe harbor from injustice.

A more sensible approach may be just around the corner. Immigration officials
are working on a new monitoring system for visa holders that tracks fingerprints
and digital photos at ports of entry. It's a policy based on individuals rather
than broad categories such as nationality or religion.

But for now, rescinding the forced registration policy is a step in the right
direction.

President Bush promised Americans shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks that this
would be a war against terrorists -- not a wholesale attack on immigrants, Arabs
or Muslims. Finally, he may be ready to live up to that promise.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 24, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUSBAND CANNOT EXTEND VISITOR'S VISA INDEFINITELY

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 618 words


Q
My husband has a visitor's visa, and I am a U.S. citizen. If I apply for a
green-card petition for him, can he remain in the United States while waiting
for a decision on his application? How many times can someone on a visitor's
visa ask for an extension?
Teresa Concepcion
San Jose
A
The Citizenship and Immigration Services will not extend a visitor's visa's
indefinitely, according to Carolyn Choi, an immigration attorney with Los Altos
law firm Allen, Choi & Do.

Entering the United States on a visitor's visa with the intention of staying
permanently is considered to be visa fraud, which is grounds for denial of an
immigration application and deportation, she said.

If your husband entered the United States lawfully, intending only to visit
temporarily, he may be eligible to file Form I-485, Application to Adjust Status
to Lawful Permanent Residence. He must show that his circumstances have changed,
and that he has decided to stay in the United States, Choi said.

He must apply at least 60 days after entering the United States. At the same
time you will need to file Form I-130, Immigrant Petition for Alien Relative, as
a citizen sponsoring a relative.

Once he has filed an I-485, he will no longer have to apply for an extension of
his visitor's visa and can stay in the United States while his application is
pending, Choi said.

Choi suggested that you consult an experienced immigration attorney. Several
issues can affect his application, such as when you were married, the date your
husband obtained a visitor's visa, and when he entered the United States.

Q
I came here in 2001 with my daughter on tourist visas, which have expired. I
married in Peru, although I plan to get a divorce. My mother, who lives here, is
a permanent resident and next year she qualifies for citizenship. Can my mother
file for legalization papers for me and my daughter, so we can obtain green
cards?
Maria Elena
San Francisco
A
Because you are a married adult, and your mother is still a resident, you won't
be able to adjust your status quite yet, said Carole Mesrobian, an immigration
attorney in San Jose. If you are working without authorization, that could hurt
your case, she said.

Some visitors to the United States who stay longer than the time allowed by
their visas can apply for residency, but only if they meet specific criteria,
such as a direct connection to a citizen who will sponsor them (what immigration
officials call an "immediate relative"). This select group of would-be residents
includes citizens' children who are unmarried and under 21 years old, the
spouses of citizens, and the parents of citizens, Mesrobian said.

People in your situation were once able to adjust their status through a
permanent resident sponsor, under the provision of immigration law known as
Section 245 (i). Although the law expired April 30, 2001, some members of
Congress have talked about bringing it back.

And despite your ineligibility, Mesrobian says your mother is not barred from
filing a petition on your behalf -- in fact, some immigrants do that, so they
can be higher on the waiting list to adjust their status if and when Section 245
(i) gets re-established.

Finally, if you happen to get divorced, and your mother becomes a citizen, you
can be on the road to becoming a permanent resident, said Lynette Parker, a
lawyer and immigration specialist with the East San Jose Community Law Center.

STATUS ADJUSTMENT WORKSHOP: A workshop on Adjustment of Status will be held Jan.
20 from 1 to 3 p.m. at the San Jose office of the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, 1887 Monterey Road. The workshop is free. To reserve a
space, call (408) 918-3986.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 31, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BAY AREA PAIR WITH ALLEGED TERROR LINKS ARRESTED;
PHILIPPINES SAYS BROTHERS MET WITH GROUPS TIED TO AL-QAIDA

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 716 words


Two American brothers from the Bay Area have been arrested in the Philippines
for alleged ties with Muslim militant groups linked to Al-Qaida and will be
deported to the United States, Philippine government officials said Tuesday.

One of the brothers, Michael Ray Stubbs, 55, of Antioch, is under investigation
by the FBI to determine whether he had access to sensitive information while
working in the 1990s as an air conditioning and heating technician at the
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.

Stubbs worked at the nuclear weapons lab, which also conducts research on the
human genome and biological weapons detectors, for almost 10 years before taking
a medical leave in 2000, a laboratory official said Tuesday.

"The laboratory is aware of his arrest by Philippine immigration officials, and
we are working closely with the Federal Bureau of Investigation on this issue,"
said Susan Houghton, a spokeswoman for the laboratory. "It'sreally important to
put into perspective his past connection with Livermore; he left on a medical
leave and never returned."

Stubbs and his brother, James, 56, a Muslim convert who lives in Newark and also
goes by the name Jamil Daud Mujahid, were visiting the Philippines on tourist
visas when they were arrested two weeks ago by Philippine authorities in a town
south of the capital city, Manila.

At a news conference Tuesday, Philippine Immigration Commissioner Andrea Domingo
said the brothers, in violation of the country's immigration laws, met with
representatives of two groups with suspected links to Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaida
network, the Abu Sayyaf and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. She said the
brothers also appeared to be raising money to build Muslim schools and mosques.
It was not clear where the schools would be built.

Domingo said that there was no evidence linking the brothers to any past or
planned terrorist plots on the United States, but that they have been deemed
"undesirable aliens" based on intelligence reports that they were seen meeting
with "known leaders of terrorist cells."

"These are all fabricated lies," shouted James Stubbs, as he stood with his
brother, handcuffed, at the government news conference. He told reporters that
he was in the Philippines to be with his pregnant Filipino wife.

A spokesman for the FBI in San Francisco said the agency is aware of the
brothers' arrest but is not clear whether they will be charged once they arrive
in the United States, which is expected in January. The U.S. Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement also is investigating the Stubbs brothers,
but ICE spokesman Marc Raimondi said the FBI is the lead agency.

"We don't have any pending charges," said FBI spokesman Chris McDonough.

The Stubbs brothers' stepmother, Deloncie Stubbs, 83, of Antioch, heard of her
stepsons' arrest while watching television Tuesday morning.

"The news was saying something about terrorists, and I was just shocked," she
told the Mercury News. She was surprised to see the brothers wearing bright
yellow T-shirts emblazoned with the word "Detainee."

She said she does not know whether her stepsons, who were both born in Missouri,
will be returned to the Bay Area or another U.S. location.

A woman who identified herself as the daughter of James Stubbs said her father
was in the Philippines to spend time with his wife. Philippine immigration
officials described him as a former teacher in California.

"They have no connection with terrorism at all," said his daughter, who answered
the door Tuesday at her father's Newark home.

Neighbors who know James Stubbs described him as a strict Muslim who refused to
give Halloween candy to neighborhood children because he believes the holiday
has pagan roots. Two years ago, he distributed fliers in the quiet neighborhood
to announce his conversion from Christianity to Islam, said two neighbors who
asked not to be identified.

James Stubbs, they said, traveled often and was gone for as much as six months
at a time. They last saw him the first week of December, when he returned from
the Sudan sporting a long gray beard that replaced his normally trim one. He
told his neighbors that he was soon heading to the Middle East.

The neighbors said they didn't know he was going to the Philippines.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Associated Press contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: BULLIT MARQUEZ -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Michael Ray Stubbs, left, and his brother James, at a news conference Tuesday in
Manila.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 6, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH PLANS PROGRAM FOR MEXICAN WORKERS;
HE WOULD ALLOW ENTRY FOR THOSE WITH U.S. JOBS

BYLINE: TERENCE HUNT, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush will propose immigration law changes to allow workers from Mexico
to enter the United States if they have jobs waiting for them, officials said
Monday in previewing an election-year measure intended to bolster support among
Latino voters.

Advocacy groups were invited to the White House on Wednesday to hear details of
the program.

"The president has long talked about the importance of having an immigration
policy that matches willing workers with willing employers," White House press
secretary Scott McClellan said. "It's important for America to be a welcoming
society. We are a nation of immigrants, and we're better for it."

Immigration advocacy groups characterized Bush's move as a politically drawn
effort to curry favor with Latinos, a potent political force, particularly in
key states like Florida, California and other border states. Two sources
speaking on condition of anonymity said Bush would outline a set of principles
rather than a detailed piece of legislation, and that the policy statement would
draw on bills already pending in Congress.

"It looks very much like a political effort and what they do with these
'principles' is going to determine whether this is really a policy initiative or
not," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy at the NationalCouncil of La
Raza. "The Latino community knows the difference between political posturing and
a real policy debate."

She said the initiative was crafted by Bush's political strategist, Karl Rove,
and the immigration policy community was excluded from the deliberations.

"We know of no one in the immigration policy community, business groups or
Latino groups who has been consulted," she said.

Rove, with Bush at a campaign fundraiser in St. Louis, deflected questions about
Bush's proposal.

"Stay tuned," he said.

Bush's planned announcement comes five days before he meets in Mexico with
President Vicente Fox on the sidelines of the Summit of the Americas, a meeting
of the hemisphere's leaders.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Bush
Immigration advocates call proposed change an effort to
gain Latino support.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 24, 2004 Saturday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

PIANO TEACHER FACING DEPORTATION;
HUSBAND OF RUSSIAN NATIVE AT ARTS, MUSIC SCHOOL SAYS IMMIGRATION CONSULTANTS
SWINDLED HER

BYLINE: JOSHUA L. KWAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 689 words


Mountain View's Community School of Music and Arts canceled a piano recital for
18 students Sunday, after immigration officials jailed their 30-year-old teacher
and prepared to deport her back to her native Russia.

Yana Slobodova admits she misrepresented herself when she entered the United
States in 1996. But her husband, a U.S. citizen, says she was swindled by
unscrupulous immigration consultants and has been trying to cooperate with
authorities so she can stay in the Bay Area with her husband and their
20-month-old son, Nikita.

"I couldn't imagine that something like this could possibly happen to my wife,"
her husband, Alexander Makarchuk, said Friday. "She is the sweetest person I've
ever known."

Slobodova has been detained in an Oakland jail since meeting Jan. 8 with
immigration officials, said Makarchuk, who has brought Nikita to see his mother
twice. "The first time we visited, the baby wanted to kiss her through the
glass" partition, he said.

The popular piano teacher was ordered back to Russia on Thursday after an
immigration judge denied her request for permanent residency. As the wife of a
U.S. citizen, Slobodova was allowed to seek permanent residency. But her
petition was denied, according to her lawyers.

A spokeswoman for the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services declined to
comment on Slobodova's case, citing federal privacy laws.

In 1996, Slobodova tried entering the U.S. with improper papers. Her boyfriend
at the time convinced her to pay $10,000 to men in New York and Russia, who told
her they could help her gain permanent residency based on her extraordinary
musical talents, Makarchuk said. When Slobodova examined the paperwork the men
later gave her, she realized the documents were for a wife of a U.S. citizen,
said Makarchuk, who met her years later.

Slobodova decided to fly to New York anyway and was apprehended by immigration
officials but was allowed to stay in the country while she sought asylum as a
Russian Jew, Makarchuk said. Her appeals have been denied.

Slobodova has admitted to fraud and misrepresentation, her lawyers say. But she
and her husband contend that she was also a victim.

"She had thought she was applying for residency based on her work, but she was
basically defrauded by a prior boyfriend," said one of her attorneys, Marc Van
Der Hout. He filed a request Friday that would give Slobodova 30 days to go to
her home in San Francisco and say goodbye to her parents, husband and son.

Despite Slobodova's mistake in 1996, her lawyers said, she had a chance to stay
in the United States through a waiver that takes into consideration whether her
deportation causes "extreme hardship" to her immediate family. Makarchuk, who
married Slobodova in 1999, said he was injured in a car accident last year and
has been under orders from his physician not to lift heavy objects, preventing
him from working his plumbing trade.

After Slobodova left for America, her mother and father received refugee status
as Russian Jews, and later gained permanent residency. They live in San Mateo.
Makarchuk said his wife is a single child and no longer has close relatives in
Russia.

Slobodova, a graduate of the St. Petersburg State Conservatory of Music, has
taught private piano lessons since 2000 at the Community School of Music and
Arts in Mountain View, the largest community performing arts school in the Bay
Area.

"She's just a lovely young woman who has been incredibly inspiring to her young
students," said Angela McConnell, executive director of the school. The school
found out about Slobodova's immigration troubles last week when her husband
called to cancel her lessons, McConnell said.

Ten-year-old Melissa Jenkins of Redwood City has been studying under Slobodova
for two years and was preparing to perform a piano duet called the Russian Folk
Song with her 8-year-old brother, Matthew, at the school's recital on Sunday.

"She's pretty calm when we make mistakes," Melissa said of her teacher. "She
doesn't get mad or anything. And she just encourages us and tells us we're doing
good even when we're not."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter Version: page 4B Morning Final edition
Mountain View

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Slobodova
Russian native has been detained in an Oakland jail since Jan. 8.
PHOTO: SPECIAL TO THE MERCURY NEWS
Yana Slobodova, holding 20-month-old son Nikita, was ordered back to Russia by
an immigration judge on Thursday.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 6, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL URGES IMMIGRATION TO AID SAME-SEX PARTNERS

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff and wire reports

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 87 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Assemblywoman Sally Lieber, D-San Jose, on Thursday introduced a resolution
urging Congress and the president to adopt a federal bill that would allow U.S.
citizens and permanent residents to sponsor same-sex partners for immigration.

The Permanent Partners Immigration Act seeks to add the phrase "or permanent
partner" to sections of immigration law that provide rights to legally married
couples.

The resolution is sponsored by Equality California, and was co-written by
Assemblyman Mark Leno, D-San Francisco.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: California News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 25, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATE BILL WOULD GIVE FARMWORKERS RESIDENCY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 81 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Now that President Bush's immigration reform plan seems dead for this year, a
less-ambitious proposal to offer about 500,000 undocumented farmworkers legal
residency is taking on a life of its own.

The so-called AgJobs bill, which also would make it easier for growers to import
foreign "guest workers," now has 55 co-sponsors in the Senate, representing a
majority of that chamber's members, its authors, Sens. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and
Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 15, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLEAR ACT PUTS CUFFS ON POLICE;
GIVING THEM ANOTHER DUTY, IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT, WOULD MAKE US ALL LESS SAFE

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 375 words


When San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis thinks about the Criminal Alien Removal Act
bill that's now before Congress, he thinks about a situation his officers face
every day.

Take a woman who's being beaten, he says. She's afraid of her abuser, to start
with. And she's terrified to call the police because she's an illegal immigrant
and she thinks we'll deport her.

Davis pauses. If she gets up the guts to call us if the act passes, we will have
to deport her.

Like many police chiefs, immigrant organizations and civil rights groups around
the nation, Chief Davis has concerns about the legislation, which has the
cynical anti-immigrant acronym of CLEAR. The act would ask state and local
police to enforce federal immigration laws or risk losing some of their federal
funding. This represents a substantial departure from the Immigration and
Nationality Act, which emphasizes that the role of local police is to fight
crime.

The CLEAR Act would distract local forces from basic policing by adding to their
duties without providing them with funding or training. Most local police
departments are already overburdened; giving them another duty to perform makes
all of us less safe, not more.

Not to mention the fact that the CLEAR Act would encourage racial profiling and
create the potential for civil rights violations -- something its authors have
thought about, noting in the bill that law enforcement agencies should be immune
from lawsuits for civil violations performed on the job.

What nasty business. Sept. 11 pointed out the need for better immigration
enforcement, but roping local police into the job isn't the way to do it. The
reasons to kill this bill go on and on -- there are funding reasons and
extraordinarily dangerous civil rights reasons -- but the best reason comes from
local police chiefs, who understand the importance of building trust in a
diverse community like San Jose.

"We have been fortunate enough to solve some terrible cases because of the
willingness of illegal immigrants to step forward, and if they saw us as partof
the immigration services, I just don't know if they'd do that anymore," Davis
said. "That would affect our mission, which I thought was to protect and serve
our community."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Davis

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 19, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOSPITALS AVOID MANDATE ON IMMIGRATION STATUS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


The House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly Tuesday against a bill
requiring hospital workers to investigate the immigration status of all patients
seeking emergency medical care.

Under the legislation, if a patient was found to be in the United States
illegally, emergency-room doctors and nurses would have been responsible for
getting identifying information, including fingerprints and photos, and the name
of the patient's employer. That information would have been sent to the
Department of Homeland Security, triggering deportation.

Hospital associations joined immigrant-rights advocates in opposing the bill.
The bill's sponsor, Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Huntington Beach, had been promised
that he could introduce the proposal in return for his vote last November
supporting the overhaul of the Medicare system.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 16, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

S.J. IMMIGRATION OFFICE LIFTS ITSELF FROM 'HELL'

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1475 words


The San Jose immigration office opened seven years ago with high hopes of
becoming a national model of good service. Instead, it quickly came to symbolize
all that is wrong with the beleaguered federal agency: immigrants camping
overnight in long lines, producing a flood of complaints and precipitating a
scathing congressional hearing.

It took four difficult years, but the Citizenship and Immigration Services
office once derided by a congresswoman as "the agency from hell" has transformed
itself from one of the poorest performing in the nation to one of the most
efficient. It has cut processing times for citizenship and green-card
applications by more than half and dramatically reduced, to less than 4,000
cases, a backlog that at one point topped 47,000.

And it has done so despite cuts in its workforce and the complex new layers of
review required since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

"It's an amazing feat," said San Jose immigration attorney Carole Mesrobian, one
of the agency's former critics.

Focus on service

The improvements can be attributed to several factors, said San Jose CIS
director Warren Janssen: fewer applications, employee training, new technology
and the national restructuring of the agency. The former Immigration and
Naturalization Service, once charged with enforcement, split into three agencies
in the wake of Sept. 11. CIS now focuses solely on service.

In San Jose, it shows. More immigrants and their attorneys now describe
immigration officers as respectful and efficient. Signs throughout the building
on Monterey Road are better displayed. A play area with toys for children now
greets those in the waiting room for green-card applicants. There is a
well-marked kiosk for immigration forms.

What's more, applications that once took the local agency up to two years to
process now take less than 10 months.

"I tell people that they're lucky if they're filing in San Jose," said San
Francisco attorney Randall Caudle. He and many Bay Area lawyers praised the
agency for directly addressing problems.

Cecilia Fagotti, 40, a businesswoman from Brazil, said she was prepared to wait
a year when Caudle filed her application for a green card. Her husband, a
biotechnologist, is a permanent resident.

"I have friends who have been waiting for years, so I was really surprised when
my application was approved within six months," Fagotti said.

Janssen now proudly keeps a bright yellow folder in his office containing
letters addressed to him and his employees. They are unsolicited words of
praise.

"To be honest, we were thinking we would be dealing with unfriendly people and
that it would take quite a long time," wrote a mother who adopted a baby girl
from China. "I am happy to say we experienced the opposite!"

It was a long road of hard work to that yellow folder of goodwill.

Sweeping immigration reforms in 1996 took effect just as the San Jose office
opened, resulting in a rush of immigrants applying for green cards and
citizenship.

The modest office in a building shared with a gym wasn't prepared to handle the
crush of applicants. So the office began to distribute numbers for appointments.
Soon immigrants camped out, waiting in the wee hours of the morning to receive
the precious few numbers.

History of waiting

"The long lines haunted this office for years," said Janssen, who came to San
Jose last year.

By 2000, the San Jose immigration office had amassed a backlog of almost 50,000
cases, and complaints about poor customer service and long delays were rampant.
In February of that year, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, and Rep. Lynn Woolsey,
D-Santa Rosa, called a hearing in San Jose to push for changes. It was then that
Woolsey dubbed San Jose "the agency from hell," a label that has been difficult
to shed.

As part of that hearing, Lofgren pushed for new technology to help the agency
manage cases. CIS offices nationwide now allow immigrants to check the status of
their pending cases online.

In addition, immigrants used to stand in line for hours to pick up forms. Now
they go to the kiosk. Nationwide, the agency also began allowing people to file
green card applications by mail. Later this month, the San Jose office plans to
launch a Web-based interview appointment system, similar to California's
Department of Motor Vehicles.

By the end of September, Janssen said, he expects San Jose to be backlog-free,
allowing federal workers to process green cards and citizenship applications
even faster.

Mariano Sepulveda, 26, who immigrated from Jalisco, Mexico, in 1994, can attest
to the strides the office has already made. For 10 years, he waited
unsuccessfully to get legal, permanent status through his father, who has a
green card.

'A positive experience'

Last year, he married a U.S. citizen and reapplied in March for a green card. He
secured a work permit in a month and a green card three months later.

"It has been a positive experience," Sepulveda said. "They worked very fast."

But even the most ardent fans of the new and improved CIS acknowledge that
problems persist: long delays resolving simple problems such as rescheduling
interviews, misplaced or lost files, and lines, albeit shorter ones.

Some immigrants recount experiences reminiscent of the old INS.

"I think if this was a for-profit organization, they would treat you with much
more respect, like they're earning what you pay them," said Srikantan
Ramabadran, a resident of Milpitas, who waited 13 months to learn of the status
of his citizenship application.

He suspected that the office lost his file, so he reapplied. He now has an
interview Sept. 21.

At Lofgren's San Jose office, four staffers devote many hours to resolving
problem immigration cases. There have been no complaints about the lines lately,
but there are scores of immigration cases to sort out, said JoAnn Yamani, a
congressional assistant.

In some instances, new layers of security reviews are holding up applications,
Yamani said.

"It goes into this immigration black hole, and it's just frustrating," Yamani
said.

Janssen concedes that tougher security measures have slowed progress. Before the
terrorist attacks, immigration officers in San Jose handled 20 to 30 cases a
day. Now they average about 12.

Lofgren said she's encouraged by the faster processing times but said the agency
can continue to improve with updated technology.

Janssen agrees.

"Can we be perfect? No," he said. "We can try to minimize the errors and
problems, and when we're confronted with a problem, we'll fix it."

CHART: BETTER SERVICE
Despite new layers of review and a smaller workforce, the San Jose immigration
office has dramatically improved its service since sparking a congressional
hearing four years ago. Data is from last week.
THEN                    NOW
CATEGORY                           (2000)                  (2004)
Federal employees                  80                      68
New cases (monthly)                1,200                   1,739
People served (daily)              300                     300
Backlogged cases                   47,474                  3,749
Citizenship application (processing time)      24 months               8-10
months
Green card application (processing time)      18-24 months            3-5 months

Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, San Jose District Office.
CHART: PROCESSING TIMES
San Jose now ranks among the top five immigration offices of similar clientele
size across the nation for its processing of green-card applications. And it
ranks just outside of the top 10 for citizenship applications.
IMMIGRATION
OFFICE          MONTHS (green card)
1) San Antonio    3.73
2) Seattle    4.4
3) Boston    5.23
4) San Diego    5.63
5) San Jose    6.17
6) San Francisco    6.67
7) Santa Ana    6.7
8) Dallas    7.17
9) Newark, N.J.    8.87
10) Detroit    9.9
11) Saint Paul, Minn.    10.4
12) Washington    12.67
13) Philadelphia    14.17
14) Miami    14.5
15) Houston    14.63
16) Los Angeles    16.77
17) Chicago    22.83
18) New York    26.47
19) Phoenix    28.63
20) Atlanta    36.17
IMMIGRATION
OFFICE   MONTHS (citizenship)
1) San Antonio    4.17
2) Santa Ana    4.4
3) Chicago    4.57
4) Los Angeles    4.87
5) San Diego    5.63
6) Saint Paul, Minn.    5.8
7) Houston    6.63
8) Seattle    6.7
9) Dallas    7.63
10) San Francisco    7.83
11) San Jose    8.33
12) Phoenix    8.83
13) Atlanta    9.63
14) Detroit    9.63
15) Philadelphia    11
16) Boston    11.23
17) Newark, N.J.    12.07
18) Washington    13.73
19) New York    14.03
20) Miami    14.67
Processing times as of July 2004
Source: U.S. Department of Homeland Security

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Charts (2);
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Warren Janssen, the current director of the San Jose immigration office, says
service has been vastly improved because of restructuring, improvements in
training and technology, and fewer applications.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 23, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REPORT: SEPT. 11 HIJACKERS BROKE IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 87 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


All of the Sept. 11 hijackers broke U.S. immigration laws and some of those
violations could have led to their detection and arrest, according to a new
staff report from the bipartisan commission that investigated the attacks.

The violations included fraudulent passports presented by as many as seven of
the 19 hijackers, according to the report.

Also, U.S. intelligence had linked at least three of the hijackers to terror
groups, but officials never placed their names on watch lists used by border
inspectors.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 23, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COUPLE ORDERED TO PAY $50,000;
IMMIGRATION SERVICE IN SALINAS ALLOWED TO CONTINUE BUSINESS

BYLINE: MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 427 words


A Monterey County immigration service was ordered this week to pay $50,000 in
fines and restitution after a slew of immigrants alleged that they were misled
into believing that they qualified for work permits.

Although immigration consultants Gladys Jimenez and her husband, Julian Hugo
Jimenez, admit no wrongdoing as part of the settlement, they could face double
the fines if they are ever found to engage in suspicious activities again,
according to the Monterey County District Attorney's Office. It has agreed to
drop its civil action against the couple as part of the settlement, allowing the
couple to continue running their Salinas business.

That decision disappointed some immigrant rights advocates Wednesday.

"I'm very concerned that the community is not adequately protected until she's
told to close down her business," said Doug Keegan, who serves on an immigration
consultant task force focused on Santa Cruz and Monterey counties.

Gladys Jimenez and her business, Gladys Immigration Service, were at the center
of a Mercury News investigation in August 2003 that detailed how a lack of
regulation has allowed unscrupulous consultants to prey on undocumented
immigrants. Hundreds of her clients have faced deportation after federal
immigration officials concluded paperwork filed by Jimenez on their behalf
appeared to be fraudulent.

By law, immigration consultants can do little more than fill out paperwork. But
Jimenez was accused of giving legal advice, overcharging clients and for
misleading consumers and authorities, said Deputy District Attorney Steven
Holett.

"We hope that this sends a message to the many other immigration consultants
that we know that are out there doing similar types of activities," Holett said.

Calls by the Mercury News to Gladys Immigration Service on Wednesday were not
returned.

The Jimenezes will pay $25,000 in fines and $25,000 in restitution to clients.

The Mercury News investigation found that few district attorney's offices
prosecute immigration consultants, though Santa Clara County has prosecuted
several. Only a fraction of consultants post the state-required $50,000 bond,
the investigation found. Posting bond allows fraud victims a form of recourse.

Holett said that Monterey County has recently settled numerous cases with other
immigration consultants.

Keegan believes the tide is slowly moving toward greater prosecution of
immigration consultant fraud: "If there are future victims, we can report it to
the district attorney's and take action."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 5, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW POLITICAL CLIMATE AWAITS LEGISLATORS;
THE DEMOCRATIC-CONTROLLED LEGISLATURE RECONVENES TODAY IN WHAT IS FORECAST AS A
'TRANSITION YEAR' FOR MANY LAWMAKERS WHO HAVE NEVER WORKED WITH A GOP GOVERNOR.

BYLINE: KATE FOLMAR, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Get ready for Round Two.

With a number of contentious issues from last year still unresolved, laws
addressing everything from driver's licenses for illegal immigrants to workers'
compensation reform will loom large when the Legislature reconvenes today.

Lawmakers are also expected to tackle a new privacy bill; a push for universal
health care; measures that could make it easier for local residents to tax
themselves for school and transportation improvements; and possible changes to
kindergarten enrollment.

It will all play out against an unfamiliar backdrop: A maverick Republican
unafraid to use his celebrity now occupies the governor's office, and he has
vowed to suture up an estimated $14 billion deficit without raising taxes.

Senate Republican Leader Jim Brulte of Rancho Cucamonga predicts this will be a
"transition year" for the Democrat-controlled Legislature, where many members
have never worked with a GOP governor.

"This chief executive is not your normal chief executive," Brulte said. "And
he's clearly not as philosophically conservative as the two previous Republican
governors. It will be an interesting time."

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's office won't divulge his precise 2004 legislative
agenda, for fear of scooping his State of the State speech Tuesday.

But the actor-turned-politician has already made clear some possibilities,
including his willingness to consider a revised law that would allow illegal
immigrants to get California driver's licenses.

Both houses of the Legislature passed such a bill last year, and then-Gov. Gray
Davis signed it. In a rare turn of events, the Legislature repealed the
unpopular license law before it took effect because Schwarzenegger had
campaigned against it as a possible security threat and a conservative group
collected signatures to put it before voters on the March ballot.

State Sen. Gilbert Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, who sponsored last year's bill, is
expected to take another crack at it. Much to the chagrin of some conservatives,
Schwarzenegger has said he is open to a revised bill "so long as it addresses
his concerns regarding security and insurance for all drivers," said spokesman
Vince Sollitto.

The exact form of a new license bill is unknown. But its chances are good if
Schwarzenegger's demands can be met, even though GOP opposition is likely.

Workers' compensation

Schwarzenegger has also stressed that he wants to curb soaring costs in the $29
billion workers' compensation system -- something Republicans and business
groups cheer and labor groups oppose.

The plan the governor favors would require more proof that an injury was caused
by work. And it would no longer allow employees to choose their own doctors
unless employers agree. The bill seeks to build on a package of reforms passed
last year.

Legislators from the Bay Area and Southern California plan to introduce or
resurrect bills on a number of fronts, from consumer privacy to education.

State Sen. Jackie Speier, D-San Mateo, who last year succeeded with a bill
granting consumers more control over their personal financial data, is expected
to introduce a measure taking aim at the practice of allowing companies to turn
over such information to third parties for processing.

Health coverage

Universal health coverage for Californians is another issue expected to come up
again this year. A less-sweeping health care bill requiring many businesses to
provide insurance for employees passed last year; business groups are targeting
it for repeal. But state Sen. Sheila Kuehl, D-Los Angeles, plans to push for
health coverage for all.

Several measures that would make it easier for Californians to tax themselves
could also be hot topics, given Schwarzenegger's stated opposition to raising
taxes.

Assemblyman Joe Simitian, D-Palo Alto, backs an effort to make it easier for
local voters to approve parcel taxes.

His bill, which would have to go on a statewide ballot, would lower the
parcel-tax passage threshold from two-thirds to 55 percent, the same hurdle as
for school bonds. Many school districts, including Cambrian and Loma Prieta,
have turned to parcel taxes to pay for day-to-day expenses such as arts, music
and technology programs, while bonds are used for building new schools and
upgrading existing ones.

Simitian said his measure probably would not surface before the March primary
because of Republican skittishness about voting for anything that appears
sympathetic to raising taxes.

"If additional state funds aren't available, we should give local communities
the ability to make local choices about local needs," he said.

In a similar vein is an attempt by Assemblyman John Dutra, D-Fremont, to make it
easier to pass bonds for local transportation projects. It, too, would require a
statewide vote before lowering the threshold to 55 percent.

The Silicon Valley Manufacturing Group supports both measures because they would
help voters decide whether they're willing to pay more for better services.

Kindergarten eligibility

In education, a bill that would push back the age at which students can enter
kindergarten may also see new light.

Assemblywoman Sharon Runner, R-Lancaster, last year introduced the idea of
limiting kindergarten enrollment to students who turn 5 by September, instead of
the current December cutoff. The plan could save the state up to $750 million a
year for more than a decade. But it received a cool reception from parents who
had already enrolled their children in kindergarten and from lawmakers who
worried about an enrollment shift to preschools.

Runner, who contends that younger students may not be ready for the increasing
academic rigors of kindergarten, plans to try again this year, after designating
some of the savings for preschools, an aide said.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Ann E. Marimow contributed to this report.
ON THE AGENDA
Among the items expected to be discussed when the Legislature reconvenes:
Driver's licenses for illegal immigrants
Workers' compensation reform
A new privacy bill
A bid for universal health care
Possible changes to kindergarten enrollment

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Brulte

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 18, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL MAY FORCE GOVERNOR'S HAND;
DEMOCRATS VOW TO PUSH THROUGH MEASURE AS DEADLINE NEARS WITHOUT COMPROMISE

BYLINE: ANDREW LAMAR, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Democrats plan a showdown with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger over legislation
allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses, a controversial measure
the Republican has shied away from.

Sen. Gilbert Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, said Tuesday that he would push the bill
through the Democrat-controlled Legislature in the coming days if the governor
continues to demand that the licenses look different from regularlicenses.
Cedillo said such a distinction would foster discrimination.

Sending the legislation to the governor's desk could put the Austrian immigrant
in a bind. It would force him to make a decision sure to anger a large voting
bloc: Latinos, who mostly endorse it, or Schwarzenegger's GOP supporters, who
mostly oppose it.

The Democrats' move could backfire, said Jaime Regalado, the director of the Pat
Brown Institute of Public Affairs at California State University-Los Angeles.
The governor has already signaled he would veto the measure, and he faces few
repercussions if he follows through, Regalado said.

"The more mainstream polls show this is not a popular issue, and I think that
bolsters the governor's position," Regalado said. The matter is a "relatively
minor thorn" in the governor's side unless a wider cross-section of voters
embrace it, he added.

With the Legislature's two-year session set to end Aug. 31, Cedillo said the
clock is ticking on reaching an agreement with Schwarzenegger. The two have
negotiated over the measure since January.

"I'm not trying to pressure the governor, but I do need to do my job
effectively," Cedillo said. "I recognize time is short."

Cedillo has fought for the measure since he won election to the Legislature in
1998. For more than 60 years, illegal immigrants applied for and received
regular driver's licenses, but former Republican Gov. Pete Wilson reversed that
in 1993.

After rejecting similar legislation twice, Democratic Gov. Gray Davis signed a
driver's license measure into law last summer. Schwarzenegger campaigned against
the bill, saying it didn't go far enough to protect public safety, and he
repealed the law Dec. 1, 2003.

Since then, Schwarzenegger has vowed to work with Cedillo on a compromise. Many
Republicans regard that as a poor tack.

"We are not going to support it," said Senate GOP leader Dick Ackerman, of
Tustin.

"We don't want to reward illegal behavior, giving them the most important form
of identification probably in the U.S., which is a driver's license."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 21, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PLAGUE OF WRONG-WAY DRIVING;
IMMIGRANT-SMUGGLERS TERRORIZING FREEWAY NEAR SAN DIEGO

BYLINE: ELLIOT SPAGAT, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: PINE VALLEY


An interstate in the pine-covered mountains east of San Diego is turning into a
nightmare for motorists. Many residents say they avoid the remote area after
dark, fearing they may collide with immigrant-smugglers who increasingly avoid
Border Patrol inspectors by driving the wrong way on the freeway.

The 30-mile stretch of Interstate 8, the main artery between San Diego and the
desert of southeastern California, has been the site of crashes and hair-raising
close encounters for years. But local commuters and California Highway Patrol
officers say the wrong-way drivers have become an almost nightly occurrence
since the summer.

Smugglers seem to know that Border Patrol and CHP vehicles won't chasethem as
they speed west in the two eastbound lanes of I-8.

"I think they learned they get away with it," said CHP Sgt. Leslie Lazo, who
dispatches patrol cars on the freeway. "It's just a recipe for disaster."

Maneuver in dark

Immigrants usually cross the U.S.-Mexico border on foot in the rough desert east
of San Diego, then cram into a van or pickup truck headed north. As they
approach the westbound I-8 checkpoint, where two Border Patrol officers peer
into vehicles and search any deemed suspicious, smugglers will steer up a
20-yard slope into the eastbound lanes, often at night with their headlights
turned off.

On Aug. 31, a Chevrolet Astro Van drove against oncoming traffic for about 17
miles before swerving back into the westbound lanes. The van, reaching speeds of
about 100 mph, spun out of control and flipped twice before crashing, sending 19
suspected illegal immigrants to hospitals. The driver escaped.

In June 2002, a van carrying 27 people collided with a Ford Explorer. Five
people in the van, including the driver, died, as did a New Mexico man in the
sport-utility vehicle.

Wrong-way driving reflects smugglers' growing desperation since federal
authorities began Operation Gatekeeper in 1994, making it more difficult to
cross the border between Tijuana and San Diego. The increased patrols near
metropolitan San Diego have pushed migrant flows to the east.

Neither the Border Patrol nor the CHP keeps statistics on wrong-way drivers, but
the outbreak appears concentrated in rural San Diego County. The Arizona
Department of Public Safety and the Border Patrol in El Paso have not seen
similar upticks, officials said.

Mary Schoepper, a 67-year-old real estate broker who lives about three miles
from the border in east San Diego County, has been behind the wheel in two
near-collisions with wrong-way drivers since spring -- one at night and one in
the middle of the afternoon. Now, she checks into motels rather than drive home
after late nights at work.

Near-collision

Sandy Williams, 55, nearly collided with an oncoming pickup truck as she
approached the Border Patrol checkpoint one night last year with her two young
grandchildren. She estimates the truck was going 70 mph, headlights off, when
she swerved twice and spun out in the dirt.

"I get shivers just thinking about it," said Williams, whose husband, a
volunteer firefighter in Campo, hears at least two wrong-way-driving incidents a
week on his scanners.

Authorities and residents are clamoring for help -- including calling for a
guardrail on the freeway's dirt median, more lighting and metal spikes on
entrance and exit ramps. But the problem defies easy answers.

San Diego County Supervisor Dianne Jacob is suggesting a median rail that would
run about 30 miles from the checkpoint to the Imperial County line, where the
Anza-Borrego Desert State Park spills into flat desert. But, she notes, that may
just push smugglers further east.

"It's like a sieve," she said.

Finding ways around

Pedro Orso-Delgado, the district director for the state transportation
department, says a guardrail may only encourage smugglers to drive on the wrong
side of the freeway for longer distances.

Motorists have circumvented metal spikes in other smuggling corridors by laying
plywood boards over them or using tires filled with silicon gel.

Michael Crowley, a lawyer who represented a man convicted in one wrong-way
crash, said determined smugglers will always find a way around the inspectors:
An easy answer to the residents' concerns would be to dismantle the highway
checkpoint.

For now, the CHP relies on portable metal spikes that can be deployed across the
freeway. And the agency's El Cajon office, which patrols an areaabout twice the
size of Rhode Island, this month increased the number of squad cars assigned to
the notorious stretch of Interstate 8.

One CHP car often perches in the eastbound shoulder on a 45-degree slope across
from the checkpoint. Wrong-way drivers have been jumping the dirt median up to
30 miles east, where the land is flatter. The incidents typically occur between
5:30 p.m. and 2 a.m., according to the CHP's Lazo, but daytime crossings are
becoming more frequent.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SEAN HAFFEY -- SAN DIEGO UNION TRIBUNE
Rescuers tend to victims of a crash Aug. 31 in Alpine, after a van drove the
wrong way on the freeway trying to escape authorities.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 14, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. TO SEND SMUGGLING SUSPECTS TO MEXICO

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 87 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Suspected smugglers of humans captured in California are being turned over to
Mexican authorities for prosecution as part of a trial program aimed at reducing
deaths among immigrants crossing the border.

In the past, U.S. authorities rarely prosecuted smugglers in cases involving
fewer than a dozen immigrants because their resources were stretched thin, the
Los Angeles Times reported Sunday.

Under the 2-year-old program, however, U.S. Border Patrol agents are handing
over some suspects to Mexican authorities.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 18, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TECH'S USE OF H-1B VISAS FALLS 75% IN '02;
DEMAND DECREASING FOR FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: MARGARET STEEN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 798 words


The number of H-1B visas issued to workers in the technology industry dropped
nearly 75 percent from 2001 to 2002, according to a new government report. The
news comes as the annual limit on the number of visas is set to be lowered Oct.
1.

Both the numbers and the rhetoric are starkly different from what they were at
the height of the economic boom. And the tech industry's use of the program has
seen dramatic changes.

The H-1B visa program allows foreigners to work in the United States for up to
six years. It has attracted criticism from some who say it's a way for companies
to hire less-expensive workers. As unemployment has risen, complaints have
focused on the H-1B and other visa programs, as well as of the corporate
practice of moving work to other countries.

The number of H-1B visas for initial employment in technology industries fell
from 105,692 in 2001 to 27,199 in 2002, according to an annual report on the
program released this month by the Department of Homeland Security's Office of
Immigration Statistics. The percentage of all H-1B visas issued to tech workers
also declined, from 52.5 percent in 2001 to 26.3 percent in 2002.

Santa Clara-based Intel saw a 60 percent drop from 2000 to 2002 in the number of
new H-1B visa workers it sponsored, said Tracy Koon, director of corporate
affairs.

"The reason is the economy," said Koon, who added that Intel uses H-1B visas to
hire scientists with master's degrees and doctorates. "Our hiring is down,
period, across the board."

AeA, an association of high-tech companies with dual headquarters in Washington
and Santa Clara, publicized the government report's findings, saying they show
that the program is not being abused.

"People who are losing their jobs, they're going to blame the H-1B visas, and
this shows that this thing has been tracking the downturn on jobs just like
everything else has," said John Palafoutas, the group's senior vice president.

Intel's Koon echoed the point: "That's the way this was intended to be working:
That is, it was going to wax and wane as the economy waxed and waned."

AeA also cited statistics showing that almost half of those receiving H-1B visas
have a master's degree or higher, saying this proves the program is being used
for workers who are scarce in the United States.

The question of whether the program is working as intended is important because
the expansion of it that Congress enacted in 2000 is about to expire. Unless
Congress acts, the annual limit on H-1B visas will drop to 65,000 as of Oct. 1,
the beginning of the government's fiscal year. A $1,000 fee for each visa that
was used to fund training programs for U.S. workers will alsoexpire.

For the past three years, the cap has been 195,000. Not all visas issued count
toward this cap -- in 2002, of the almost 200,000 total petitions that were
approved, only about 79,000 counted toward the cap. People applying to extend
their three-year visa for another three years, for example, or those working for
universities or research institutions are not counted. Also, because some people
have more than one petition filed on their behalf, the number of petitions is
not necessarily the same as the number of workers who come to the country
through the program.

It's not clear whether Congress will act to increase the cap again, either
before or after Oct. 1. Some industry groups are raising concerns about leaving
the cap at 65,000, especially because an estimated 20,000 of next year's visas
are already in the approval process.

"We're not actively involved in lobbying to raise the cap again," said Intel's
Koon. But she said Intel is worried that when the economy turns around, the
number won't be high enough.

"The membership of AeA is not encouraging AeA to push for more visas," said Thom
Stohler, vice president of workforce policy for AeA. "There may be a different
scenario down the road, six months to a year from now, that would argue for
raising the cap. But right now, those conditions simply don't exist."

Still, those who want to keep the cap at 65,000 said they are staying vigilant.

Chris McManes, a spokesman for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers-USA, a professional society, said his group favors the 65,000 cap, but
would like to see the $1,000 application fee restored and make sure that the
money is used for training for high-level workers.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said in a statement to a Senate committee this
week that she is concerned about the way the H-1B program is working, and about
whether U.S. workers are being hurt by it.

CHART: WES KILLINGBECK -- MERCURY NEWS
Demand for visas
Source: Department of Homeland Security
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER FINDINGS
Other findings from the Department of Homeland Security's report on the H-1B
visa program:
* India, the country that in 2001 accounted for about 45 percent of all visas
for initial employment, saw the biggest decline from 2001 to 2002, from 90,668
to 21,066.
* Companies' petitions for initial employment declined in almost every
occupation. The exceptions were slight increases in the relatively small
categories of education, medicine and life sciences.
* More than 95 percent of the recipients of initial employment visas in 2002 had
at least a bachelor's degree.
Source: Department of Homeland Security

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 18, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TECH'S USE OF H-1B VISAS FALLS 75% IN '02;
DEMAND DECREASING FOR FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: MARGARET STEEN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 798 words


The number of H-1B visas issued to workers in the technology industry dropped
nearly 75 percent from 2001 to 2002, according to a new government report. The
news comes as the annual limit on the number of visas is set to be lowered Oct.
1.

Both the numbers and the rhetoric are starkly different from what they were at
the height of the economic boom. And the tech industry's use of the program has
seen dramatic changes.

The H-1B visa program allows foreigners to work in the United States for up to
six years. It has attracted criticism from some who say it's a way for companies
to hire less-expensive workers. As unemployment has risen, complaints have
focused on the H-1B and other visa programs, as well as of the corporate
practice of moving work to other countries.

The number of H-1B visas for initial employment in technology industries fell
from 105,692 in 2001 to 27,199 in 2002, according to an annual report on the
program released this month by the Department of Homeland Security's Office of
Immigration Statistics. The percentage of all H-1B visas issued to tech workers
also declined, from 52.5 percent in 2001 to 26.3 percent in 2002.

Santa Clara-based Intel saw a 60 percent drop from 2000 to 2002 in the number of
new H-1B visa workers it sponsored, said Tracy Koon, director of corporate
affairs.

"The reason is the economy," said Koon, who added that Intel uses H-1B visas to
hire scientists with master's degrees and doctorates. "Our hiring is down,
period, across the board."

AeA, an association of high-tech companies with dual headquarters in Washington
and Santa Clara, publicized the government report's findings, saying they show
that the program is not being abused.

"People who are losing their jobs, they're going to blame the H-1B visas, and
this shows that this thing has been tracking the downturn on jobs just like
everything else has," said John Palafoutas, the group's senior vice president.

Intel's Koon echoed the point: "That's the way this was intended to be working:
That is, it was going to wax and wane as the economy waxed and waned."

AeA also cited statistics showing that almost half of those receiving H-1B visas
have a master's degree or higher, saying this proves the program is being used
for workers who are scarce in the United States.

The question of whether the program is working as intended is important because
the expansion of it that Congress enacted in 2000 is about to expire. Unless
Congress acts, the annual limit on H-1B visas will drop to 65,000 as of Oct. 1,
the beginning of the government's fiscal year. A $1,000 fee for each visa that
was used to fund training programs for U.S. workers will alsoexpire.

For the past three years, the cap has been 195,000. Not all visas issued count
toward this cap -- in 2002, of the almost 200,000 total petitions that were
approved, only about 79,000 counted toward the cap. People applying to extend
their three-year visa for another three years, for example, or those working for
universities or research institutions are not counted. Also, because some people
have more than one petition filed on their behalf, the number of petitions is
not necessarily the same as the number of workers who come to the country
through the program.

It's not clear whether Congress will act to increase the cap again, either
before or after Oct. 1. Some industry groups are raising concerns about leaving
the cap at 65,000, especially because an estimated 20,000 of next year's visas
are already in the approval process.

"We're not actively involved in lobbying to raise the cap again," said Intel's
Koon. But she said Intel is worried that when the economy turns around, the
number won't be high enough.

"The membership of AeA is not encouraging AeA to push for more visas," said Thom
Stohler, vice president of workforce policy for AeA. "There may be a different
scenario down the road, six months to a year from now, that would argue for
raising the cap. But right now, those conditions simply don't exist."

Still, those who want to keep the cap at 65,000 said they are staying vigilant.

Chris McManes, a spokesman for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers-USA, a professional society, said his group favors the 65,000 cap, but
would like to see the $1,000 application fee restored and make sure that the
money is used for training for high-level workers.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said in a statement to a Senate committee this
week that she is concerned about the way the H-1B program is working, and about
whether U.S. workers are being hurt by it.

CHART: WES KILLINGBECK -- MERCURY NEWS
Demand for visas
Source: Department of Homeland Security
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OTHER FINDINGS
Other findings from the Department of Homeland Security's report on the H-1B
visa program:
* India, the country that in 2001 accounted for about 45 percent of all visas
for initial employment, saw the biggest decline from 2001 to 2002, from 90,668
to 21,066.
* Companies' petitions for initial employment declined in almost every
occupation. The exceptions were slight increases in the relatively small
categories of education, medicine and life sciences.
* More than 95 percent of the recipients of initial employment visas in 2002 had
at least a bachelor's degree.
Source: Department of Homeland Security

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 3, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INDIA SEES NO HARM FROM H-1B REDUCTION

BYLINE: From the Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 182 words


Indians expect little harm, and possible benefit, from a reduction in the number
of foreign workers that can enter the United States each year under the H-1B
visa, saying it might force U.S. companies to move more jobs to India.

"When people can't go there to work, work might migrate across the seas to
India," said E. Balaji, head of staffing solutions at Ma Foi Management
Consultants, based in the southern city Madras.

The cap on the number of non-immigrant visas available to qualified foreigners
dropped to 65,000 Wednesday. The United States increased the limit to 195,000 in
2000 to meet the then robust demand for talented software programmers. But
growing unemployment led worker unions to demand a reduction in H-1B visas.

The economic slowdown in the United States has forced American companies to
outsource many business services to Indian firms and workers. According to
Massachusetts-based technology consulting group Forrester Research, 3.3million
jobs in the services sector will move out of the United States by 2015, compared
with about 400,000 this year.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ASIA BUSINESS NEWS IN BRIEF
LABOR

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 29, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CASE IS WEAK FOR LIFTING H-1B CAP

BYLINE: DAN GILLMOR column

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 682 words


News and views, culled and edited from my online eJournal
(www.dangillmor.com/blog):

Americans not wanted: Amid the worst technology recession in memory, influential
members of the tech industry are seeking to import more foreign workers to the
United States. What gives, apart from political obtuseness?

The Wall Street Journal reported Monday that chip maker Intel, among others, is
pushing Congress to lift the cap on H-1B visas, which allow citizens of other
nations to live and work in the United States.

While there was a case for issuing more of these visas at the height of the tech
bubble in the late 1990s, the case is a lot weaker today.

With so many American engineers and technologists out of work, you'd imagine
more political sensitivity among U.S. companies. But given the industry's
accelerating move to send work overseas -- and take advantage of the lower wages
paid in places like India and China -- one more insult to domestic labor seems
almost logical.

Andy Grove, chairman of Santa Clara-based Intel, recently told a business group
that the United States was losing its competitive edge. He and others see a fix
in attracting more foreign workers to the United States.

That's fine, to a point. But H-1B visas don't give workers the same leverage
with employers that they'd have if they were permanent residents. In fact,
temporary workers are at a disadvantage.

If the industry really wants to boost domestic business and the overall economy,
how about lobbying for a law that would attract great talent in the best
possible way? Let's give them green cards. Make them permanent residents.

Voting for integrity: When a company gets people riled up enough with policies
and actions that seem aimed at stifling debate about a crucial subject,
activists get going in a serious way. That's why Diebold, which makes some
disturbingly flawed electronic voting machines, is under serious attack for
trying to keep secret some information that is, at best, disturbing.

Some of that information comes from internal e-mail, which has surfaced on a
number of Web sites. The documents suggest that there are technical and security
problems with Diebold's equipment that could allow someone to tamper with votes.

In response, the company has taken legal action, including sending "cease and
desist" letters to several sites.

Students at Swarthmore College were among those posting the material. But the
college crushed their "Campaign of Civil Disobedience," removing it from the
school's servers. So the action has moved to the Why War? (www.why-war.com)
site.

Why War? is linking to various places you can download the material that Diebold
wants to hide. The postings are damning, at best. Diebold refuses to confirm or
deny their authenticity, a position that tends to suggest the worst.

The integrity of voting is central to a functioning democracy, yet most in
government -- and, sadly most major media -- have all but ignored the problems
raised by these systems.

Diebold's electronic voting systems received a scathing review in a third-party
analysis conducted on behalf of Maryland election officials. Yet Maryland is
going ahead with the system anyway.

And Tuesday, a federal appeals court in San Francisco dismissed a Riverside
County woman's suit seeking to stop electronic voting systems that don't create
a printed record that would allow audits and recounts.

The three-judge panel said the woman raised "at most a hypothetical concern"
about the integrity of elections conducted with the paperless systems.
"Electoral fraud can never be completely eliminated no matter which type of
ballot is used."

I'm at a loss to understand this.

Diebold, by the way, is a company whose chief executive has pledged to help
re-elect President Bush next year.

When the voting machine industry starts taking seriously voters' right to have a
trustworthy ballot -- including paper verification that can be used in the event
of a recount -- activists will stop their campaign. I'll be giving them my
strong encouragement until that happens.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: weblog

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

            December 17, 2003 Wednesday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

EX-STANFORD FELLOW FACING A LAWSUIT OVER DOMESTIC WORK

BYLINE: JULIE PATEL, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 788 words


Journalist Wanja Njuguna-Githinji and her housekeeper Alice Biketi moved to the
Bay Area last year from Kenya with high hopes.

Njuguna-Githinji, who won Africa's equivalent of the Pulitzer Prize in 1999 for
her work exposing human-rights violations and corruption, had won a prestigious
fellowship at Stanford University. Biketi, her employee of two years, agreed to
come along, knowing she could make more money in one day than she made in one
month in Kenya.

But what began as a mutual friendship has turned into a labor dispute that is
becoming increasingly common across the country as foreign domestic workers
assert their rights and, in some instances, seek to stay in the United States.

Biketi has filed a lawsuit against her former employer, claiming she took her
passport, paid her below minimum wage and prevented her from venturing outside
alone. Njuguna-Githinji dismisses the lawsuit as a desperate attempt by Biketi
to stay in the country.

The case sheds light on the tenuous relationship between employers and foreign
domestic workers, said Wanjiru Kamau, executive director of the African
Immigrant and Refugees Foundation, an advocacy group based in Washington, D.C.
Last week, Congress reauthorized sweeping legislation protecting victims of
trafficking, including migrant domestic workers like Biketi who claim they have
been mistreated and forced to work long hours.

"There is a lot of mistreatment of domestic workers who come into this country,
but there are also instances where the worker will cook up a story about being
abused in order to stay in the country," she said. "With situations like this,
it's important to look at the context of what happened, including the worker's
income and how long they were employed, because if they never complained, that
might indicate they were happy where they were working."

Before traveling to the United States in August 2002, Njuguna-Githinji and
Biketi drew up a contract that, among other things, stipulated that Biketi would
earn $6.75 an hour and work six-hour days performing domestic chores such as
cooking, cleaning and babysitting Njuguna-Githinji's 2-year-old son. Biketi says
that Njuguna-Githinji also verbally promised to help her enroll in college and
bring her daughter to the United States.

After about five months living and working in Palo Alto, Biketi left
unannounced. She said she was paid only $370 over five months and was forced to
work 16-hour days.

"I was expecting a lot, and I wasn't going to get anything," Biketi, who is
living in a San Jose shelter, told the Mercury News.

Njuguna-Githinji said she has records that show she paid Biketi $3,200 -- in
addition to providing room and board. She also said she never made any
additional promises to Biketi.

"Alice was like a sister to me," said Njuguna-Githinji, who is living in
Massachusetts as part of another fellowship program.

Njuguna-Githinji, however, may have inadvertently broken labor rules dealing
with overtime, said her attorney, Peter Nohle, of Pillsbury and Winthrop LLP in
Palo Alto.

If Biketi worked overtime and wasn't paid for it, it was, for example, while
doing "nothing more than being in the house while Wanja's son slept," he said.

According to the State Department, about 50,000 people each year are brought
into the country legally or illegally by force or fraud and subjected to
involuntary servitude. While the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 and
federal and state labor codes protect domestic workers from being exploited, the
cases often don't make it to court, said Joy Zarembka, director of Break the
Chain Campaign in Washington, D.C., an advocacy organization for domestic
workers that handles about 30 cases annually.

"Since they work in an informal space, it's difficult to establish when a
domestic worker is working; so often domestic workers will be on call 24 hours a
day," Zarembka said, adding that exploited workers often don't complain because
they fear retaliation or don't understand their rights.

The federal trafficking legislation is most often used to protect agricultural,
garment and sex workers because these cases involve numerous employees -- and
because work in private homes is so difficult to regulate. But the burden of
proof, Zarembka said, is on the employers because they're required to create and
abide by a contract outlining work hours and wages.

Njuguna-Githinji's relationship with her housekeeper seemed perfectly normal,
said Jim Bettinger, director of the John S. Knight Fellowship at Stanford
University, which is awarded annually to 12 accomplished journalists.

After reading the lawsuit, he said, "The Wanja portrayed is not the Wanja I
know."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 2, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GRANT TO RETRAIN HIGH-TECH WORKERS;
FUNDING COMES FROM H-1B FEES

BYLINE: MARGARET STEEN, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS MONDAY; Pg. 5E

LENGTH: 206 words


The Bay Area Council has received a $2.99 million grant from the Labor
Department to improve the skills of high-tech workers. The funds come from fees
U.S. employers pay when they hire foreign workers on H-1B visas.

The money will be used to train 759 current employees of companies that are part
of a consortium formed by the council, including IBM, Global Visa Solutions,
Pinnacle Technical Resources and Robert Half International.

"Technology changes so rapidly that if you're not well-trained you're going to
be laid off," said Raul Garcia, acting president of the Bay Area Council.

This grant will help employers with the cost of keeping their workers' skills up
to date, he said.

Because the program is designed to reduce demand for H-1B visas, the training
will be aimed at workers with bachelor's degrees or significant industry
experience. The program may train computer programmers in new programming
languages, for example, or network administrators in new tools, said Mike
Wilson, chief executive officer of the Bay Area Technology Education
Collaborative, a non-profit that will match workers to the training they need.

Training is expected to start in March. The program will last for three years.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 2, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GRANT TO RETRAIN HIGH-TECH WORKERS;
FUNDING COMES FROM H-1B FEES

BYLINE: MARGARET STEEN, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS MONDAY; Pg. 5E

LENGTH: 206 words


The Bay Area Council has received a $2.99 million grant from the Labor
Department to improve the skills of high-tech workers. The funds come from fees
U.S. employers pay when they hire foreign workers on H-1B visas.

The money will be used to train 759 current employees of companies that are part
of a consortium formed by the council, including IBM, Global Visa Solutions,
Pinnacle Technical Resources and Robert Half International.

"Technology changes so rapidly that if you're not well-trained you're going to
be laid off," said Raul Garcia, acting president of the Bay Area Council.

This grant will help employers with the cost of keeping their workers' skills up
to date, he said.

Because the program is designed to reduce demand for H-1B visas, the training
will be aimed at workers with bachelor's degrees or significant industry
experience. The program may train computer programmers in new programming
languages, for example, or network administrators in new tools, said Mike
Wilson, chief executive officer of the Bay Area Technology Education
Collaborative, a non-profit that will match workers to the training they need.

Training is expected to start in March. The program will last for three years.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 13, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NOW IT'S AN ONSHORE JOB THREAT;
L-1 VISAS ARE BEING ABUSED TO BRING IN FOREIGN WORKERS WITH AVERAGE SKILLS WHO
RECEIVE LOWER WAGES

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 465 words


It's tough enough that technology workers in Silicon Valley have to compete with
lower-paid rivals offshore. What's not as well known, and in some ways more
insidious, is the fact that workers here are also forced to compete with
lower-paid rivals right here.

The competition comes from foreign workers who are brought to the United States
under the L-1 visa, a relative of the H1-B visa. Reports suggest that misuse and
abuse of the L-1 visa have become rampant in recent years. It's time for
Congress to fix it.

The L-1 visa serves an important purpose. It is intended to allow temporary
intra-company transfers of workers with specialized skills from overseas
operations to U.S. operations.

A company such as HP or Intel, for example, would use an L-1 visa to transfer an
executive, a high-level manager or an engineer with knowledge of a specific
product from their facilities in Ireland or China to the United States.

Increasingly, however, the visa has been used to import workers with run-of-the
mill skills -- say accounting or programming -- but no specialized knowledge.
The worst abuse of the L-1 visa comes from so-called "body shops," outsourcing
firms that import workers and then contract them out to other employers.

Body shops are not new. In 2000, the Mercury News exposed various Valley body
shops that were relying primarily on H1-B visas to bring in scores of foreign
engineers for hire by third parties.

But abuse of the L-1 visa by body shops presents a far greater threat to
American workers. Under the H1-B visa, workers must be paid a "prevailing wage."
Employers often exploited loopholes in that provision and paid H1-B workers less
than their American counterparts. The L-1 visa, however, has no prevailing wage
requirement. And unlike H1-B visas, which are currently capped at 65,000 per
year, there are no caps on the number of L-1 visas allowed. About 112,000 were
granted in 2002.

In the most infamous case of L-1 abuse, Siemens Technologies laid off American
high-tech workers in Florida who were paid about $98,000 a year and replaced
them with foreign workers earning $36,000, far below the salary range for a
basic programmer. The foreign workers were supplied by Tata Consultancy
Services, an Indian company.

Congress should consider a number of reforms to the L-1 visa, including:

* Tightening the definition of "specialized knowledge."

* Limiting the subcontracting of L-1 workers to other firms.

* Putting an annual cap on L-1 visas.

* Setting requirements that L-1 workers be paid prevailing wages.

To ensure that these reforms have teeth, Congress must make those provisions
easily enforceable.

Fixing the L-1 visa won't end the woes faced by tech workers here. But it would
level the playing field a bit.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 31, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RESIDENCY PAPERWORK TO BE FILED AFTER MARRIAGE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 560 words


Q
Can you help settle a debate between my fiance and me? I am a U.S. citizen (born
here), and my fiance is on a three-year H-1B visa from Germany. His visa expires
at the end of 2004. However, his employer is going to renew it for another three
years. We plan to marry in February 2005. He maintains that he does not need to
do anything regarding his visa before our marriage. I think he is wrong.

Stephanie
Bay Area
A
When the employer files an extension of your fiance's H-1B petition and assuming
it's approved, there would be nothing else he needs to do before you marry, said
Priscilla J. Cortez, a senior attorney with Squire, Sanders & Dempsey in San
Francisco.

Once you marry, you can file a Form I-130, a petition for an alien relative.
Simultaneously, he can apply for an adjustment of status to permanent residency
with Form I-485, Cortez said.

Q
My stepdad and mom have been married for 29 years. My stepfather is from Mexico.
After marrying my mother, who is a U.S. citizen, he applied for a visa in 1974
or 1975 in San Francisco. They never sent him a permanent resident card. Why is
it that every year he has to go to the immigration office and apply over again
and pay more money? I believe he should have a permanent resident card after
having been married to my mother all these years.
Therese Diaz
Sunnyvale
A
The first thing your stepdad should do is send a request for a copy of his
immigration file under the Freedom of Information Act, said Mary Dutcher, an
immigration lawyer and program director with the Community Legal Services in
East Palo Alto.

A local non-profit immigration agency can help him, Dutcher said. Seeing his
immigration file will clarify whether his American wife, your mom, in fact did
file an adjustment of status application to get a green card for her husband, or
whether his "temporary visa" stems from some other type of case, Dutcher said.

If his "temporary visa" is a work permit, one may look at the category under
which it was issued and know whether it is based on a pending application to
adjust status or some other basis, Dutcher said.

Q
I am a naturalized U.S. citizen. I have a daughter who came from the Philippines
as a permanent resident four years ago. Then she became a citizen. When she was
still a minor, I applied for a U.S. passport for her. She obtained it. She soon
will turn 19 years old, but I haven't applied for a certificate of
naturalization for her. Can she apply for her certificate even if she is 19?
Eduardo Lazo
San Jose
A
There are two different certificates that could be relevant to your daughter's
situation. One is a certificate of citizenship, which has an "age limit" of 18,
and the other is a certificate of naturalization, said Hazel G. S. Marinero, an
immigration attorney in Campbell.

Your daughter has a passport, which is obviously clear evidence of her U.S.
citizenship, so it's questionable why she would want a certificate of
naturalization, Marinero said.

However, if she wishes to obtain a naturalization certificate she can do so
through the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and there is no age limit
to obtaining it.

Also, children who have obtained citizenship through their parents and who have
a U.S. passport need neither a certificate of naturalization nor a certificate
of citizenship, Marinero said.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 16, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISA CAP LEAVES FIRMS WANTING;
TEMPORARY JOBS MAY BE LEFT UNFILLED THIS SUMMER

BYLINE: LISA GENTES, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3F

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I.


Jody Dyer is worried that she won't be able to rent all the rooms in her inn
this summer because there won't be enough workers to clean them.

The Inn at Mystic, in Mystic, Conn., is short 16 seasonal employees because of a
ceiling on a visa program that allows foreign nationals with various skills to
work in the United States for nine months.

"We'll be open but we won't be to full capacity," Dyer said.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services cut off applications for this
temporary visa program, the H-2B visa, on March 9 when the agency knew it would
meet its annual limit of 66,000 foreign workers. With demand for workers surging
-- the government already received more than 100,000 applications -- it was the
first time the agency turned away applicants before the end of a fiscal year.

Now businesses from hotels in Rhode Island to the fishing industry in Alaska are
short-handed and struggling to fill temporary jobs that local workers don't
want.

Pennie Beach, co-owner of the Basin Harbor Club in Vergennes, Vt., said she's
missing "a crucial core" of her 65 housekeepers and food service workers.

Employers usually turn to the H-2B program as a last resort; they must first
recruit within the United States before they can turn to foreign workers.
Foreign workers are paid the same wages Americans would be paid.

Gregory Siskind, an immigration lawyer in Memphis, noted that while the H-2B
visa became more popular as the economy grew in recent years, the ceiling has
not been changed since the program began in the early 1990s.

The carnival and circus industries in Florida are also being hit hard. Joe
Nichols, an immigration attorney in Sanford, said local workers don't want these
jobs because they require traveling.

Nichols said the visa ceiling is going to have a ripple effect: If some show
owners are forced to close down fairs, then local vendors, hotels and
restaurants also lose business.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: VICTORIA AROCHO -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Jody Dyer, owner of a hotel in Connecticut, says she may not be able to
findenough workers to clean rooms this summer.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 1, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JOBS THAT STAY HERE;
BUT NOT FOR AMERICANS

BYLINE: KARL SCHOENBERGER, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 966 words


Not all the local jobs disappear when an Indian firm takes a software project to
Bangalore. As many as 30 percent in a typical offshoring contract stay onshore,
located right on the premises of U.S. technology companies, offshoring experts
say.

Yet these jobs aren't available to the local workforce. They are reserved,
almost exclusively, for guest workers brought from India on H-1B visas by the
outsourcing contractors, according to analysts and industry sources.

Concerns about the impact of the H-1B program, which raised hackles when it let
in legions of foreign tech workers at the peak of the Internet boom, are back
again. Hurting from high unemployment after the tech bubble burst and spooked by
all the election-year buzz about offshoring, displaced U.S. workers are claiming
double jeopardy.

"These jobs never make it to the help-wanted ads or get posted online," said Kim
Berry, president of the Programmers Guild, a Web-based advocacy group that
criticizes offshoring and the H-1B program.

The two issues are inseparable, said Ronil Hira, assistant professor of public
policy at Rochester Institute of Technology.

"If you look at all the major Indian information-technology firms doing
offshoring, they are also the largest users of H-1B visa workers," said Hira,
who has testified before Congress on offshoring. "These companies are managing
their offshore contracts using imported labor. But Americans should have the
first shot at that work."

H-1B demand has risen sharply in recent months. The current cap -- 65,000 -- was
reached Feb. 17, just 4 1/2 months into the new fiscal year, which ends Sept.
30.

That resurgence coincides with the rise in technology offshoring, but Chris
Bentley of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service said any connection is a
matter of interpretation.

Controversy also is rising over the extensive use by Indian contractors of the
L-1 visa, which is designed to transfer executives within a company and has no
annual limits or tracking mechanism.

Indian offshoring firms say their guest workers are an integral part of the
cost-savings model their clients demand.

Short-term software-development projects don't lend themselves to hiring local
workers because, unlike the young and unfettered guest workers, locals don't
like to relocate when the job is done, said Sridhar Ramasubbu, general manager
for finance and investor relations at the Mountain View office of Wipro
Technologies. Wipro is one of the top three Indian software companies, along
with Infosys Technologies and Tata Consultancy Services.

"We're a global business, and our workers have to be mobile and willing to move
quickly to wherever there is work to be done," said Ramasubbu. He said onshore
guest workers account for an average of 28 percent of the labor involved in the
company's software outsourcing contracts.

Asked about alleged wage differentials between local workers and H-1B holders,
he said Wipro follows "the letter and the spirit" of U.S. immigration laws
requiring payment of prevailing wages.

Bangalore-based Wipro recently announced that it broke the $1 billion barrier in
annual sales for the fiscal year that ended March 31. Worldwide it has 30,000
employees, with an average age of 26, Ramasubbu said. About 2,000 of Wipro's
2,400 U.S. employees hold H-1B or L-1 visas, he said, adding that Wipro also
employs several thousand H-1B visa holders outside the United States who can
rotate in as needed.

The dependence on temporary visas is also evident at Infosys, another $1 billion
software company based in Bangalore, with its U.S. headquarters in Fremont. The
company grew by 30 percent last year and derived two-thirds of its revenue from
the U.S. market, employing about 2,900 H-1B visa holders and 800 others on L-1
visas at the end of 2003, according to Securities and Exchange Commission
documents. These numbers had more than doubled over two years.

Tata Consultancy, a privately held unit of the Mumbai-based conglomerate Tata
Group, broke $1 billion in sales in 2003. The company would not disclose the
number of H-1B visa holders it employs.

There is no reliable data on the scope of the offshoring industry in terms of
the number of jobs it has moved overseas, the dollar value of the outsourcing
contracts involved or how many H-1B visa holders are actually employed. There
are several layers to the industry, from the giant U.S. outsourcing companies
IBM Global Services and EDS to the consulting arms of U.S. accounting firms,
such as Accenture.

Bipartisan legislation was introduced to Congress last year to close loopholes
in the H-1B program by monitoring whether qualified Americans were excluded and
wage rules were evaded. The bill died in committee.

Last month, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, sponsored a new bill to allow up to
20,000 additional H-1B visas a year -- beyond the 65,000 cap -- to applicants
with master's or doctoral degrees. But the bill lacks Democratic support and is
likely to die.

"There's a higher rate of unemployment among software engineers compared to the
rest of the population, and that should reduce our need for H-1B workers in the
technology fields," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, noting that data on
offshoring and the H-1B program is inadequate and out of date.

Stopping the influx of high-tech guest workers, along with the exodus of
software engineering work to India, will be difficult as long as U.S.companies
seek to improve their bottom line, said Ravi Kalakota, CEO of E-Business
Strategies, a Georgia consulting firm.

"U.S. immigration policy has a lot of loopholes," said Kalakota. "I'm sure
companies will find ways to squeeze people in. I suppose the only American
workers benefiting from this are the immigration lawyers."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related Story: page 6A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Ramasubbu
Employs 2,000 visa-holders.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 1, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B VISA AT CENTER OF LABOR DISPUTE

BYLINE: KARL SCHOENBERGER, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 394 words


The costs and benefits of the H-1B visa program have been debated since the late
1990s. Proponents argue that guest workers are indispensable to a robust U.S.
technology industry, while critics claim that the program enables employers to
suppress wages and discriminate against older workers -- arguments that are
echoed in the debate on offshoring.

"It causes great concern when you hear that H-1B visa holders are being paid
less than the Americans who held the same jobs," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San
Jose.

In the years after the Internet bust and the technology downturn, applications
for H-1B visas fell short of annual caps. Congress had raised the caps, under
intense tech-industry lobbying, from 65,000 to 115,000 for the fiscal years 1999
and 2000 and to 195,000 for 2001-2003.

The H-1B cap for this fiscal year was lowered to 65,000. There is no cap for the
L-1 intra-company transfer visas.

More than 1 million H-1B visas were newly approved or renewed in the four years
through 2003. H-1B visas are valid for three years and can be renewed only once.
Immigration officials have no record of how many visa holders remain in the
country.

H-1B visas, widely used in health care, education and technology, are intended
to let foreigners with specialized skills fill positions when qualified
Americans are not available. The numbers of new visas are capped each year, and
employment practices are monitored only nominally by federal authorities.

Legal provisions in the H-1B program require that workers be paid at prevailing
market rates to prevent unfair competition with U.S. citizens and permanent
residents, but critics say immigration authorities have failed to monitor wages
and enforce regulations.

Don Schneider, 51-year-old software engineer in Seattle, says he lost his
project-management job at AT&T Wireless after training his successor, an Indian
guest worker. He thinks he will find a new job eventually, but he said he
expects to earn considerably less because of the impact of offshoring and the
H-1B program on wages.

"We're only beginning to understand the negative consequences of what's going
on," Schneider said. "There's nothing illegal about paying Americans half the
wages they used to make. But eventually people won't be able to buy those
imported refrigerators that cost half as much. It can't last."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related Story: page 1A

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 31, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SOME FIRMS LAMENT CAP ON FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 159 words


Rounding the corner into summer and the peak tourist season, businesses across
California -- hotels, racetracks, ball clubs and others -- are feverishly
preparing for big crowds and big bucks.

But this year some are doing without a class of worker they have depended on for
years: temporary, seasonal employees from other countries.

For the first time since the program debuted more than a decade ago, the
government has announced that applications for foreign worker visas, known as
H-2B visas, have hit the 66,000 cap and that it won't accept more.

Examples of hardships run the gamut: The Oakland A's applied for a handful of
Venezuelan and Dominican players, but were turned away.

And some South Lake Tahoe casinos were out of luck when they asked to bring a
group of mostly Mexican workers to fill housekeeping and kitchen jobs.

Farm workers are not eligible for the H-2B; they have a temporary visa category
all to themselves.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           October 22, 2003 Wednesday

Davis's change of heart towards undocumented immigrants

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 521 words

DATELINE: TOUGH TRUCK


ON the day Gov. Gray Davis was recalled from office by a disenchanted California
electorate earlier this month, exit polls indicated strong antagonism toward him
because of his transparent flip-flop on the issue of allowing illegal immigrants
to obtain valid driver's licenses in the state. After vetoing similar -- and
more restrictive -- licensing bills on two previous occasions, Davis suddenly
changed his mind just weeks before the election. He was widely perceived to be
pandering to a bloc of potential Hispanic constituents. It was a gamble on his
part and he lost. The typical Oct. 7 voter, by and large, was outraged. Davis,
for that reason among others, suffered the severe consequences. And, now, there
is a concerted statewide movement to repeal SB60. Somewhat surprisingly, one man
who bucked the tide on this sensitive matter was San Mateo County Sheriff Don
Horsley, a Democrat. Along with all five of our state legislators, all Democrats
as well, he strongly supported the bill. Horsley didn't have to make his
feelings known. He could have remained silent. But he went public on the basis
of what he said was his concern about highway safety. In a July letter to state
Sen. Gilbert Cedillo, one of the backers of SB60, Horsley stated, in part, that,
"As a law enforcement official, I believe that unlicensed and uninsured drivers
lead to higher rates of hit-and-run accidents and may in some cases lead to
police pursuits." Horsley's letter did not mention the overriding question of
securing U.S. borders in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks on the
East Coast. However, Horsley, to his credit, doesn't back away from his
viewpoint. He remains convinced that, given the realities of California's huge
illegal immigrant population, having a mechanism to allow them to obtain valid
driver's licenses [along with the required insurance] makes good sense. "This
[SB60] is better than the current system," he said recently. "The issue isn't
terrorism." Horsley said he knows that his stance is not popular in many parts
of California -- and outside it. But he sticks by his opinion nonetheless.
HEALTH VIOLATION -- The County Health Department has cited a Coastside
restaurant for being a repeat major violator of health/safety regulations. Pasta
Moon, 315 Main St. in downtown Half Moon Bay, was found to have failed to
wash/sanitize its cleaning towels. The information was posted on the
department's Web site late last week.

EX-TEACHERS -- Alumni of Burlingame High School are seeking faculty members who
taught there prior to 1983. The graduates are planning an alumni/faculty
luncheon for 11:30 a.m. Nov. 8 at the San Mateo Elks Club. If you have
information regarding such ex-Burlingame instructors, contact Mike McQueen in
Belmont at 591-3194.

Our Carolyn Livengood, a longtime San Bruno resident, forwards this vanity
license plate she spotted on a burly Ford pickup truck the other day:
"TUFONUF.Having trouble with e-mail access? Relax. Get in touch with John Horgan
by telephone at 348-4334, by fax at 348-4446 and by regular snail mail at P.O.
Box 5400, San Mateo 94402.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              129 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           November 22, 2003 Saturday

Thomas MAIER;
JFK's book touched off immigration change

LENGTH: 1775 words


WHEN Arnold Schwarzenegger was elected last month as California's new governor
-- perhaps in part on the glitz and glamour of his ties to the Kennedy family --
Sen. Edward Kennedy offered a telling remark. "What better proof could there be
that America really is a nation of immigrants?" Kennedy asked in a prepared
statement, a reference to Schwarzenegger's all-American, up-by-the-bootstraps
immigration story.

But his observation had a further resonance -- one that holds the key to
understanding the most profound and longest-lasting legacy of John F. Kennedy's
presidency. "A Nation of Immigrants" is the title of a small book written by
Kennedy shortly before his 1960 election as U.S. president. It is a work largely
ignored by journalists and biographers blinded by the Camelot image, but one
that would ultimately -- and quite literally -- change the face of America.

The book is JFK's account of immigration in this nation, especially that of
Irish Catholics like his own ancestors. His manifesto, his paean to the pulsing,
flowing heart of America -- drew little attention when published in 1958. But it
became the blueprint for a law that President Kennedy proposed in 1963, shortly
before his assassination, to eliminate the racial discrimination inherent in the
nation's immigration system. Two years later, JFK's "A Nation of Immigrants"
idea became the "The Immigration and Nationality Act Amendments of 1965," pushed
through Congress with little fanfare as a tribute to the fallen president by his
brothers, Edward and Robert Kennedy.

Only now, as the nation assesses the legacy of JFK 40 years after his death, do
historians recognize the huge influence of this little-known book and the reform
it produced.

"It had enormous impact -- there are millions and millions of people who owe
their existence here to the impact of that 1965 act," says Alan Kraut, a history
professor at American University in Washington, D.C., and recent past president
of the Immigration and Ethnic History Society, the largest nationwide group of
scholars devoted to the issue.

The 1965 immigration act ended the old "national-origins" immigration system
that favored northern Europeans and severely restricted entry by newcomers from
Latin America, South America, Asia and many other places around the world.

Under the new statute, immigration status was decided without regard for race,
ethnicity or national origin, and with an emphasis on family reunification.

The parents, children and spouses of legal American immigrants would be allowed
to follow and become U.S. citizens without any numerical restrictions. Other
provisions in the law 'encouraged immigration by those with special occupational
skills, who were considered valuable to the American economy.

The flow of legal immigrants following their relatives into America increased
dramatically, so that the total of 9.7 million foreign-born Americans in 1960
rose to nearly 20 million by 1990. By last year, the U.S. Census reported, there
were 32.5 million foreign-born citizens -- 11.5 percent of the total U.S.
population.

The new America can be seen in nearly every urban center in the nation, where
new arrivals flock to gain their first toeholds in the market economy.

The 1965 law's biggest impact was that the gatekeepers to America were now
officially colorblind, allowing entry on a first-come, first-served basis. It
transformed America into a far more diverse population with roots around the
world.

Not everyone has been pleased with this Kennedy legacy. "Seldom has a bill had
such unintended consequences. In fact, the 1965 act opened the floodgates,"
complained the writer James Goldsborough in a 2000 issue of Foreign Affairs. "By
the early 1980s, the United States had a full-blown immigration crisis." He
criticized the economic, political and social problems brought by waves of
immigration.

Whether for good or ill, this new America -- with its far-reaching cultural,
political and demographic changes -- can be traced directly to the vision JFK
laid out in his seminal book.

[Begin optional trim]

As Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Washington- based Center for
Immigration Studies and a prominent critic of the 1965 law and its impact, puts
it: "It's had a huge effect, but in the public's mind it's not what people think
of when they think of the Kennedys. It's certainly one of his most substantial
legacies."

Surprisingly, most notable books about Kennedy never mention "A Nation of
Immigrants." It's a remarkable omission, for the book and what it spawned
provide the clearest, most historically rooted raison d'etre for John F.
Kennedy's presidency.

[End optional trim]

"A Nation of Immigrants" had very personal roots. Kennedy's heritage allowed him
to perceive changes in America that other Anglo-American thinkers might not pick
up. His sense of history made him see a universal quality to America's
immigration.

In the white-bread atmosphere of the 1950s, Kennedy offered a remarkably
different perspective. In prose and pictures, "A Nation of Immigrants"
celebrated a broad mosaic of American immigration -- Poles, Chinese, Italians,
Czechs, Germans, Armenians, Danes and Laplanders. But it also contained examples
of America's less than glorious past, including pictures of a Ku Klux Klan rally
with two burning crosses.

The book seemed to find common ground in the experiences of all minorities in
America. Kennedy reminded readers that as minorities increased, so did nativism
and the level of hostility "against the Irish, who, as Catholics, were regarded
as members of an alien conspiracy."

Kennedy held a more qualified view of the American "melting pot" ideal than what
was embraced in the prevailing popular doctrine of the 1950s. That view differed
even from those of some academics and political aides surrounding him. The Irish
Catholics he knew in Massachusetts -- certainly those such as his grandfather,
and own father, family patriarch Joseph P. Kennedy -- did not so much wish to
become Brahmins as they desired to be accepted for what they were and not have
to adopt someone else's religion or culture.

In an eloquent, almost philosophic way, Kennedy emphasized why immigrants were
so central to the American dream: "Immigration is by definition a gesture of
faith in social mobility. It is the expression in action of a positive belief in
the possibility of a better life. ... The continuous immigration of the 19th and
early 20th centuries was thus central to the whole American faith. It gave every
old American a standard by which to judge how far he had come and every new
American a realization of how far he might go. It reminded every American, old
and new, that change is the essence of life, and that American society is a
process, not a conclusion."

Perhaps no truer, more simply-stated expression of John Kennedy's fundamental
liberalism exists.

Undoubtedly, "A Nation of Immigrants" was created in response to Joseph
Kennedy's tactical advice that immigrants and their descendants could hold the
key to electoral success in the 1960 race for the White House. "Just remember,
this country is not a private preserve for Protestants," he said [according to
several historic accounts] in a discussion about his son's political future,
after Thanksgiving dinner in 1956 at the family's home in Hyannis Port, Mass.
"There's a whole new generation out there, and it's filled with the sons and
daughters of immigrants from all over the world, and those people are going to
be mighty proud that one of their own is running for president. And that pride
will be your spur; it will give your campaign an intensity we've never seen in
public life. Mark my word, I know it's true."

Surely the book would curry favor with many minority groups Kennedy needed
desperately in a winning coalition. But it went further in scope than could ever
be expected from a mere campaign pamphlet.

At that time, the notion of immigration as an active agent in the "process" of
an ever-changing America was far different than the worldview of many Americans
who insisted that newcomers become just like them -- in effect Anglicized and
devoid of their cultural identities. Kennedy's book stressed that America would
be better off if it understood and embraced its remarkable immigration history
rather than ignoring or denying it.

During his six years in the House, Kennedy consistently favored immigration
reforms along with other liberal domestic policies that balanced his hawkish,
anti-Communist stance in foreign affairs. His concerns were sensible local
politics in a congressional district with many recent emigres from around the
world. Massachusetts then contained a greater percentage of foreign-born
residents than any other state.

In the Senate, Kennedy fought hard for changes in the McCarran-Walter
Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, seeking to end restrictions that
favored "Caucasian" immigrants and restricted entry for those from Asia and
Latin America. In strong moral tones, he criticized the national origins quota
system that kept many immigrant families, apart for years, from coming together.

In his book, Kennedy unsparingly dissected the racism and religious bigotry in
American immigrant policy since the Revolutionary War.

[Optional add end]

By 1921, American policy set a cap on the number of immigrants allowed to enter
each year; entry was determined according to a rigid formula based on the
"national origins" of those foreign-born citizens already here. Immigrants from
Britain, Ireland and Germany had few problems, but those from Italy, Hungary,
Poland and the Baltic states faced huge backlogs, the number of applicants far
greater than the number allowed to enter.

This national origins system was still largely in place when Kennedy wrote his
book. Kennedy called for a new immigration system based not on race or ethnicity
but on the need for each immigrant's skills, as well as an immigrant's ties to
family members already living in the United States.

In language suitable for a Boy Scout manual, he saluted America's cherished
beliefs in democracy, equal opportunity and the melting pot of disparate
cultures brought by immigrants. Invoking Walt Whitman, he surveyed a land
enlivened by a constant flow of new blood in all walks of life. "There is no
part of our nation that has not been touched by our immigrant background," he
praised. "Everywhere immigrants have enriched and strengthened the fabric of
American life."

Distributed by the Los Angeles Times-Washington Post News Service

Thomas Maier writes for Newsday.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              130 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           November 29, 2003 Saturday

Immigrants fear repeal of driver's license law

BYLINE: By Bret Putnam, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: SAN MATEO


Maria Alvarado, a street vendor who sells flowers in downtown San Mateo, is
saving up for a car -- but she's not sure she'll ever buy one.

Alvarado hopes California soon will allow undocumented immigrants like herself
to drive here legally. But until that happens, Alvarado, who is from Jalisco,
Mexico, is hanging on to her money.

Gov. Davis signed legislation in September allowing the undocumented to drive,
and the bill, SB60, was scheduled to take effect in January. But on Monday the
state Senate voted 33-0 to overturn it. On Tuesday, the Assembly Transportation
Committee voted 15-0 for repeal. The full Assembly will vote on the issue
Monday.

Alvarado wants a car so she can broaden her

opportunities for work, so she can run errands and visit friends, and so she can
drive without the fear of getting pulled over and having her car confiscated.

"A car is absolutely necessary, for everything," said Alvarado, a San Jose
resident who gets picked up by her boss every morning and dropped off in San
Mateo to sell flowers.

Francisco Javier Galeana and Abelardo Ramirez arrived in San Mateo from Mexico
15 days ago. It is their first time in the States, but already they've heard
California might allow the undocumented to drive.

"It would be nice if it becomes a reality," said Galeana, who has landed a job
in a body shop, "I would go to work without worry. Now if you commit a traffic
infraction there's trouble."

Mario Ortiz drives a sleek silver Nissan pick-up truck. He's not a U.S. citizen,
but when he came to California from Jalisco 13 years ago it was still possible
to get a driver's license with just a birth certificate. Ortiz says he always
renews his license by mail to avoid questions at the DMV about his citizenship.

But Ortiz relates the story of a friend, an undocumented landscaper who lives in
Oakland, who just a week ago got pulled over for speeding in his 1992 Volkswagen
Jetta. The friend was unlicensed and uninsured, so the police confiscated his
car.

"He needs the car," Ortiz said. "Now he can't work."

Ortiz, a San Francisco resident who works as a janitor in Burlingame, says about
60 percent of the Bay Area's undocumented immigrants drive. They purchase their
cars from other Latinos, but cruise the streets without licenses or insurance.

Everyone loses when illegal immigrants can't get licenses, Ortiz said. Car
dealers and insurance companies lose business, drivers are put at risk by
uninsured motorists who don't know the rules of the road, and California misses
out on collecting licensing fees.

"We pay taxes," said Ortiz, "Why shouldn't we have the right to drive?"

Senate Bill 60 required only a federal taxpayer identification number and one
other identifying document, plus a thumb print, to get a license. But
Schwarzenegger vowed to repeal it, saying it did not contain adequate deterrence
against terrorists who might try to get a license.

Assemblyman Gene Mullin, D-South San Francisco, voted for SB60 because similar
legislation was in effect up to the mid-1990s, he said. Mullin said he believes
there is no connection between terrorism and who can obtain a drivers license.

But Mullin also said he hasn't decided how he will vote Monday, because he has
yet to review testimony from the Senate's 33-0 vote.

"My inclination is for the vote two months ago to hold up," Mullin said.

The author of SB 60, Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, actually voted for the
repeal, and urged his colleagues to do the same, saying he had received a pledge
from Schwarzenegger to support a similar bill if it contains strengthened
security measures. Cedillo is expected to address Democratic assembly members on
the issue Monday, Mullin said.

On Friday Rigoberto Perez, 42, sat with a couple of friends on a curb waiting
for work outside the Workers Resource Center in San Mateo.

Recently arrived from Chiapas, Mexico's impoverished southernmost state, Perez
and his friends said they knew nothing about the license issue, and weren't
particularly interested.

Perez and his friends don't own cars in Chiapas, he said, and they don't expect
to in California.

"For us, the goal here is just to work," Perez said.

You can reach staff writer Bret Putnam at 348-4330 or by e-mail at
bputnam@sanmateocountytimes.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              131 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 18, 2003 Thursday

Daly City residents mostly foreign-born, census shows;
Social workers, market owners testify to explosion of immigrants

BYLINE: By Emily Fancher, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: DALY CITY


Daly City has the fifth-highest percentage of foreign-born residents in the
United States among cities with more than 100,000 residents, according to a new
analysis of the 2000 census.

Immigrants make up about 52.3 percent of the city's population of 103,000, the
figures show, and 68 percent of the immigrants are from Asia.

No wonder signs in the Skyline Plaza Shopping Center for restaurants, salons,
banks and dry cleaners are written not only in English, but in Chinese and
Korean.

From the smoked ducks hanging in the window of one restaurant, to the Filipino
videos in Tagalog in another shop, this center caters to Asians.

The center does a thriving business because of shifting demographics that have
changed Daly City over the past 20 years.

Nationwide, the foreign-born population has increased by more than 50 percent in
the past 10 years -- from 19.8 million in 1990 to 31.1 million in 2000. Though
all regions in the country experienced an increase of foreign-born residents,
the West saw a 50 percent spike.

In 1990, the census did not publish information on where Daly City's 41,000
foreign-born residents were born. But 2000 data shows that of the 54,213
residents who identified themselves as foreign-born, 37,600 are from Asia and
13,400 from Latin America. Almost half -- or 24,000 -- were from the
Philippines, followed by those born in China -- 6,918 -- and those born in El
Salvador -- 4,175.

New languages

Those who provide social services have witnessed the explosion of immigrants in
the city.

"Oh, have I seen change in 25 years," said Wanda Nalls, director of Daly City
Community Service Center, which provides housing, food, health, and translation
services to the needy. "Almost all our clients are immigrants. Everyone came
from somewhere else."

She said it's been challenging to help immigrants, but that the center uses AT&T
Language Bank, a service that provides volunteers to translate any language. The
center also has Spanish and Tagalog speakers on staff. Nalls said her rough
estimate is that 80 percent of the roughly 2,000 clients the center serves
annually are foreign-born.

Serving new clientele

Indeed, the Skyline Plaza Shopping Center was once a more Americanized place
with a large Cala Foods as the anchor store. But when Asian supermarket Ranch 99
moved in, replacing Cala in 1997, the center began catering to Asian immigrants.

Today, there's a Tempura House, Pho 99 Vietnamese restaurant, Shanghai
restaurant, Korean B.B.Q., Porridge King Chinese, Sheng Kee Bakery, as well as
Asian banks and hair salons.

Ada Yung, who was born in Hong Kong, owns Alexander's Florist & Gift in the
shopping center. Yung said she's seen lots of new immigrants in the last five
years, and her fluency in Cantonese and Mandarin helps her with customers.

"The nature of the shopping center has changed since Ranch 99 opened," said
Yung. "It used to be dead here."

Shoppers say Ranch 99 offers a huge selection of Asian foods at good prices. The
store's aisles are stocked with everything from mochiko sweet rice flour to
Chrysanthemum drink to red mung beans.

Tai Sun, the manager, said his staff speaks Spanish, Vietnamese and Chinese in
order to communicate with customers.

"Most of our customers are Asian," said Sun, "and many of them are immigrants."

Staff writer Emily Fancher covers Daly City, South San Francisco, Colma and
Brisbane. She can be reached at 348-4340 and efancher@sanmateocountytimes.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              132 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            January 3, 2004 Saturday

Key immigration tracking system coming to SFO;
Foreigners entering country will have to take photo, give fingerprints

BYLINE: By Sean Holstege, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 755 words


San Francisco International Airport will on Monday become one of 115 airports
with a new system to electronically verify the identity of foreign tourists and
track their whereabouts.

Called US-VISIT, the system is a cornerstone of the Homeland Security
Department's effort to prevent a repeat of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks
and is a direct response to the sharpest criticism about why they happened.

Almost immediately after the attacks, the nation's immigration officials were
peppered with questions about how they let terrorists onto U.S. soil.

Immigration officials at ports, airports and borders will now require every
foreigner with a visa entering the country to go through a 15-second process
similar to the final step in getting a driver's license. Immigration agents will
take their digital photo and scan electronic fingerprints into a government
computer database.

That will be checked against passenger data from airlines or cruise ships and
government watchlists. If a visitor matches one of those lists or the name on
the visa doesn't match other data, the traveler would face additional questions,
bag searches or be denied entry and deported.

One lesson from the attacks was that some of the 19 terrorists enrolled in
flight schools and others got into the country posing as foreign exchange
students. One of those was Hani Hanjour, who was enrolled in English language
classes in Oakland. He never showed until he commandeered the jet that crashed
into the Pentagon.

Starting Monday, student immigration data at airports will be sent to schools to
let them know their student should be arriving within 30 days.

"Everything we're doing in this area is to make the country safer, and we're
making strides. Is it 100 percent foolproof? Absolutely not. We would never make
that claim," said Customs and Border Protection spokesman Mike Milne.

The soft underbelly of US-VISIT, which stands for United States Visitor and
Immigrant Status Indicator Technology, is the open border treaties between the
United States and its closest allies. Most people entering the country from
western Europe, Mexico and Canada do not need a visa.

If a terrorist could effectively sneak into one of these countries and then
convincingly lie to a U.S. immigration agent that he's a citizen from one of
those countries here on a tourist visit, he wouldn't be stopped at SFO.

Nor would a terrorist who buys a fake U.S. passport, because U.S. citizens will
not be screened by the new technology.

But airports such as SFO are the last line of defense in a US-VISIT system that
stretches back to foreign airports and U.S. embassies.

"The same data will be checked before we even issue them a visa," Milne said.
"When they get here, US-VISIT is a double-check, a positive ID."

Monday's roll-out is the first phase of an evolving program. By the end of the
year, international airports will install kiosks near departure gates, where
tourists will automatically submit their inkless fingerprints and scans of their
passports.

This will let immigration officials know when people leave the country, so that
they can track those who overstay their visas. The 9-11 hijackers melted into
society after they arrived.

People who fail to comply with the future exit system may be denied entry if
they return to the United States.

Another future phase of US-VISIT will likely involve biometric identification,
with which computers would pinpoint the identity of foreigners by analyzing
unique retinal patterns or facial geometry. The digital photos are for now just
that, says Milne, recognizing that a huge registry of images could be used to
build a biometric library.

Government tests in March, using the same kind of photos from the Mexican
border, showed that the best facial recognition system could only match the
correct names and faces 85 percent of the time under ideal conditions.

The bigger the pool, the harder the job, according to the Pentagon's Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency study. Based on DARPA's findings, the best
system could only pick out 63 percent of Californians.

"Biometrics is not part of the system yet. If they develop a system that's
reliable, this creates the possibility to use it later," Milne said.

Already, early tests of US-VISIT at Atlanta's Hartsfield International Airport
yielded promising results, authorities said. The system pinpointed people on
watchlists, which led to law enforcement actions, though none included suspected
terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              133 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                          February 11, 2004 Wednesday

The courts

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 392 words


San Mateo man admits to anthrax threat A San Mateo man has pleaded guilty to
mailing an anthrax threat to the federal immigration service, the U.S.
Attorney's Office said.

Mohammed Lateef, 32, was indicted in August on one count of threatening to use a
biological agent as a weapon. He faces a possible sentence of life in prison and
a $250,000 fine.

Lateef admitted Monday to mailing a letter that contained white powder and
stated: "Antrax" [sic]; "Hate Isreal and destroy America" [sic]; and "Al-Qaida"
[sic].

The letter arrived on April 11, 2002, at the U.S. Bureau of Customs and
Immigration Enforcement.Tests found the powder was not anthrax.

Lateef is scheduled to appear before U.S. District Chief Judge Marilyn Hall
Patel for sentencing May 17 in San Francisco.

San Carlos

Group starts database

for homeless pets

The local nonprofit group Homeless Cat Network recently joined an online
database of homeless pets, Petfinder.com.

"Once a pet's photo and description are added to our database, its chances of
being adopted go up substantially," Petfinder.com founder Betsy Saul said in a
news release. "No longer does a pet have to wait for an adoption day event or
for someone to walk in the door at the shelter. Its information is out there for
potential adopters to see from the comfort of their own homes on their own time
schedule."

Cats up for adoption through the San Carlos-based organization can be viewed at
www.petfinder.com/shelters/CA690.html

Belmont

Commission application

deadline approaches

The deadline to apply for Belmont city commissions has been extended to this
Friday.

The city is looking for residents interested in sitting on its Parks and
Recreation, Arts, and Finance commissions. There are also two openings for youth
on the parks commission.

Applications can be obtained via the city's Web site, www.belmont.gov, or at the
City Clerk's office in City Hall, 1070 6th St., Suite 301.

For more information, contact the City Clerk at 595-7413.

San Bruno

Road work to cause

delays for motorists

Nighttime travelers through the intersection of El Camino Real and Sneath Lane
can expect construction delays between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. for about the next
three weeks. City officials say some lanes will be closed to allow replacement
of a 12-inch sewer main with a 24-inch line.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              134 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            February 22, 2004 Sunday

Administration's plan blasted;
Citizenship Project director says temporary legal status idea is an 'empty
proposal'

BYLINE: By Karen Holzmeister, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: HAYWARD


Millions of immigrants deserve compassion and a speedier review of their
citizenship applications, the leader of a Salinas organization for immigrants'
rights said Saturday.

Tony Acosta of the Citizenship Project, described President Bush's plan to give
temporary legal status to millions of undocumented immigrants "an empty
proposal."

Under the proposal, an estimated 8 million undocumented immigrants now living in
the United States would be eligible for temporary legal status for three years,
renewable for an unspecified period, provided they are employed and Americans
cannot be found for the jobs.

Employers also could bring in new workers under the same conditions. But these
temporary workers would not automatically qualify for permanent residency status
or citizenship, and Bush has said he expects them to eventually return home.

Acosta said the president's plan doesn't recognize the desire of immigrants to
obtain citizenship, thus enabling them to get a Social Security number, driver's
license and a job.

Desire to be legal

"Most people want to be legal [citizens] so they don't have to live in fear," he
told a small audience at the Teamsters' Hall on Saturday morning.

The hall, in the Burbank district near downtown Hayward, is just a couple of
blocks from the former Hunt's Cannery. Thousands of immigrants lived and worked
at the cannery, one of Hayward's oldest and largest employers from its opening
in 1896 until its closure in 1978.

Acosta said Immigration and Naturalization Service records show a backlog of 6.5
million citizenship applications. The present administration should focus on
clearing up this backlog so immigrants can become U.S. citizens, he added.

Applicants currently may face waiting periods of 8-to-13 years, depending on
which category they fall into.

Acosta said the Citizenship Project, which relies on grants for operating funds,
has helped21,000 people in California and Arizona obtain citizenship during the
last nine years. The organization provides advice on workers' issues, classes in
English and history, and register to vote.

Asking for helpSocorro Michael, 65, of Union City came to the meeting to ask for
help in becoming a citizen.

Michael said she was a widow on a tourist visa when she came to the United
States in 1996 from the Philippines. She married an American in 2002. His income
is not considered high enough to qualify him as her sponsor, Michael said.

Michael said she has worked occasionally at convalescent homes in Alameda and
San Joaquin counties during the last eight years, but is not working now because
she does not have a Social Security card.

For information on immigrant workers' issues, contact the Citizenship Project,
931 E. Market St., Salinas 93905 or call [831] 424-2713.

The Washington Post contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              135 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             March 26, 2004 Friday

Low-income immigrants seek quality treatment;
Asian Immigrant Women Advocates to meet

BYLINE: By Laura Casey, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND


Chinese immigrant Haiyan Wu has never made more than minimum wage in her 11
years working in the United States, and currently spends eight hours a day
breathing toxic solvents.

Wu cleans and assembles electronic equipment inside an Oakland warehouse where
ventilation is so poor she says most workers initially have flu-like reactions
to the solvents they breathe.

She says no one at work has offered safety tips or provided masks.

"Overall [my employer] never cares about our health. He only cares about money,"
Wu said through an interpreter.

She is one of several low-income immigrant women working with Asian Immigrant
Women Advocates to help improve working conditions in factories, sweatshops and
other workplaces.

"We are very happy for the ones who need the chair and got the chairs, even
though we didn't get it," Wu said.

She and about three dozen other low-income immigrant leaders will meet this
weekend at the second annual National Immigrant Woman Leadership Gathering,
organized by the Asian Immigrant Women Advocates and held at the Oakland Asian
Cultural Center. There they will share stories of success and discuss how to
build a powerful immigrant workers' community.We are showing the public that
with opportunity and leadership development, immigrant women can stand up
together and bring change, said Young Shin, director of the Asian Immigrant
Women Advocates.

There are a limited number of jobs for immigrant women, mostly because of
language and educational barriers. Rarely do they make more than minimum wage,
and rarer is it for them to get raises.

Wu likes to joke the only raises she ever got were due to minimum-wage law
increases.

Shin said she believes if low-income immigrant women organize they will have a
strong voice in the community and the political arena.

One of the speakers, Celeste Jimenez of El Paso, Texas, was laid off from her
job at a garment factory and could not find work after the passage of the North
American Free Trade Agreement. She joined La Mujer Obrera [Working Woman] more
than 10 years ago to learn English and participate in leadership programs. She
now campaigns for the rights of Spanish-speaking immigrants, and for worker
retraining and job placement.

Shin said not only are immigrant workers exposed to long hours, dangerous
working conditions and low pay, they also are the first to be laid off in a poor
economy.

This weekend's session also will address what women can do to create better jobs
outside of garment factories.

While most of the conference will be small and private, this morning's plenary
session is open to the public. Alameda County Supervisor Keith Carson and
Oakland City Councilmember Jean Quan will give statements of support. The
session will be 9 a.m. to noon at the Oakland Asian Cultural Center, 388 9th
St., Suite 290.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              136 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            April 22, 2004 Thursday

Sierra Club beats back anti-immigration influence;
Club members turn out in record numbers to pick establishment candidates in
board election

BYLINE: By Douglas Fischer, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 443 words


The Sierra Club easily withstood a challenge by a faction seeking to push the
venerable San Francisco-based club into a more aggressive anti-immigration and
population growth stance, beating back a so-called "takeover faction" by a
10-to-1 margin in the organization's election Wednesday.

Candidates backed by the club's nominating committee won all five seats on the
15-member board, a resounding victory that quashed, at least for now, efforts of
an increasingly vocal faction to have the club take a position against
immigration and unchecked population growth.

Turnout was enormous, with 171,000 votes cast out of 757,000 members, about 23
percent, or nearly triple the 112-year-old organization's previous record. Last
year, in comparison, 68,000 members cast a ballot. Every Sierra Club member can
cast a ballot.

"It's a huge testament to the health of the democratic culture of the Sierra
Club," said Clayton Daughenbaugh of Groundswell Sierra, a grassroots group of
Sierra Club members organized to fight those pushing the anti-immigration
agenda.

"People thought that [culture] was under attack, and they rose to the occasion
and defended it in a really big way. That's what won the election."

Those wanting the club to take a position on the controversial population debate
saw it differently.

Sierra Club leaders had warned that anti-immigration advocates were trying to
take over the organization and its $100 million annual budget by electing their
own board candidates.

Earlier this year the Sierra Club, with the board's consent, sent out a ballot
notice warning members that non-environmental groups were trying to influence
the vote.

In February, three challenger candidates -- former Colorado Gov. Richard Lamm,
Frank Morris and David Pimentel -- filed a lawsuit, claiming that club leaders
were interfering with the election. They later dropped the lawsuit under threat
of a countersuit seeking reimbursement for legal fees.

"Money counts," said Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director of the Oakland-based
Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable America. "The problem is the Sierra Club
has the resources to mount a campaign to paint candidates who want to address
immigration as racists."

In the end, Lamm, Morris and Pimentel won fewer than 15,000 votes each. The five
winners garnered between 110,000 and 141,000 votes apiece.

"If there's any silver lining to this negative conflict," said club president
Larry Fahn, "it's that more members are participating in our board elections,
and that's encouraging."

Wire services contributed to this report. Contact Douglas Fischer at
dfischer@angnewspapers.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              137 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              May 23, 2004 Sunday

Filipinos mobilize against deportations

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: SAN LEANDRO


Community activists held a forum and legal clinic Saturday as part of an
emerging effort to halt what they see as an increase in deportations of Filipino
immigrants in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks.

Organizers said they are also trying to get Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., to
sponsor a bill allowing a Fremont family slated to leave the country June 30 to
stay.

"To win their case -- we look at it as a victory for all Filipino Americans,"
said Robyn Rodriguez, a supporter of the Cuevas family, who recently lost their
legal battle to remain in the United States.

The family, which includes three children now in their 20s,

had come into the United States on visitor visas in 1984 and 1985 that expired.
They sought to legalize their status through the courts but ultimately lost
their case.

Joren Lyons, an attorney with the Asian Law Caucus who worked with the Cuevases,
said that Filipino immigrants in particular are being affected by federal
efforts to kick out more than 300,000 people who have standing deportation
orders but have yet to be deported.

The Philippines is a priority country on the target list for those efforts, he
said. Advocates estimated that 12,000 Filipinos could be deported as a result of
those efforts.

Many others are facing deportation in the wake of a 1996 law that made it harder
for illegal immigrants to legalize their status in the U.S., Lyons said. He said
that several families, like the Cuevases, are just now exhausting the last of
their legal options for staying here.

"It's chewing people up and spitting them out now," he said.

The number of Filipino immigrants facing deportation has fluctuated over the
last five years, hitting 720 in the federal government's 2002 fiscal year, the
most recent numbers available. But the number of Filipinos being deported is
small compared to the total number of deportations, more than 1 million for
2002.

Organizers noted two instances in which dozens of Filipinos were deported at
once and also the firing of more than 1,000 Filipino airport screeners after new
requirements were enacted by Congress.

Pastor Mel Navarro of New Covenant Presbyterian Church, where the event was
held, said some families in his congregation are struggling with their status in
the U.S.

"I hope this forum will bear fruit," he said to the two dozen or so people who
gathered Saturday. "Fruit that will deliver us from the enslavement of the new
immigration laws."

Contact Michele R. Marcucci at mmarcucci@angnewspaper

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              138 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            August 5, 2004 Thursday

Traveler-tracking program to be tested at SFO

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words


Foreign visitors traveling through San Francisco International Airport will soon
be part of a pilot program testing the next phase of a system intended to track
them.

Starting Sept. 1, most foreign visitors traveling through SFO and nine other
airports in the United States and Puerto Rico must offer digital fingerprints
and a photograph before leaving the country. The system is also being tested at
two seaports, San Pedro and Long Beach.

Visitors leaving the country will either be required to check out at an
automated kiosk or with an exit attendant. The results of the program, which
should last two months, will be studied to determine which works better, said
Anna Hinken, outreach manager for the tracking program, called US-VISIT, or
United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology.

The new procedures won't affect most Canadians and Mexicans traveling in the
United States or diplomats, children younger than 14 and seniors older than 79,
Hinken said. But starting Sept. 30, visitors from more than two dozen countries
who do not need visas to travel in the United States must submit to the
procedures, she said.

Ultimately, the new procedures will affect an estimated 24 million travelers
each year, Hinken said, 1.3 million of them traveling through SFO, according to
the Immigration and Naturalizations Service's 2002 Statistical Yearbook.

Officials hope to have the system in place in 80 airports, including Oakland and
San Jose, sometime in 2005.

An entry-exit program was slated to be in place at the nation's air and seaports
by the end of 2003, according to the Department of Homeland Security Web site.

Hinken said those found to have overstayed their visas won't necessarily be
flagged by border officials when they leave the country, but they may face
additional questions if they try to return. Visitors who overstay their visas
could be subject to removal from the United States or denied future entry,
according to the DHS Web site.

Data on visitors who don't leave as required is forwarded to Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, she said. ICE spokesman Russ Knocke said his department
gets weekly updates on the data and has investigated leads generated by the
pilot system, but could not immediately provide specifics.

Most of the Sept. 11 hijackers were in the United States on expired visas.

Federal officials have been testing the exit program at Baltimore-Washington
International Airport and Miami's International Cruise Line Terminal, but
results of those efforts were not available. The pilot was also expanded to
Chicago O'Hare International Airport on Tuesday.

Accenture LLP is the prime contractor for US-VISIT. Hinken said she could not
provide cost estimates for the system, but in a presentation to the industry,
DHS officials estimated the entire project -- in place at land, sea and air
borders -- could cost billions of dollars over a 10-year period.

Contact Michele R. Marcucci at mmarcucci@angnewspapers.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              139 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 19, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AREA ADVOCATES TO SEND OFF IMMIGRANT-RIGHTS ACTIVISTS

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Gov. Gray Davis, Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Oakland, Mayor Willie Brown, and
farmworkers advocate Dolores Huerta will be on hand for a send-off and rally
Saturday for the Bay Area participants in the 2003 Immigrant Workers Freedom
Rider, a national mobilization to focus public attention on the plight of
immigrant workers and the call for reform of current immigration policy.

Inspired by the Freedom Rides of the civil rights movement -- in which Davis,
Lee, Brown and Huerta participated -- immigrants and their allies from 10 U.S.
cities, including the Bay Area, will cross the country in late September and
converge on Washington, D.C., to meet with members of Congress.

Participants will gather at 11 a.m. at Yerba Buena on Mission Street between
Third and Fourth streets, for a noon march up Market Street to the Civic Center,
where a program including mariachis, Filipino stick dancers, African drummers,
Arabic singers and the Touch of Class choir begins at 1:30 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area Briefing

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 21, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW SCHWARZENEGGER VISA ISSUE;
'71 CONSTRUCTION WORK APPEARS TO BE VIOLATION

BYLINE: DION NISSENBAUM, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1433 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


In a bid to win over Latino voters in the turbulent recall race, Republican
Arnold Schwarzenegger began running a Spanish-language radio ad last week that
touts his humble beginnings in America as a bricklayer.

While the Austrian native has made his immigrant's tale a rallying cry in his
bid for governor, seven immigration attorneys said the up-and-coming bodybuilder
most likely violated the terms of his work visa by launching his bricklaying
business in 1971.

In interviews over the years, Schwarzenegger has said he joined forces with an
Italian bodybuilder to rebuild damaged homes after the deadly Sylmar earthquake
jolted Southern California.

But immigration attorneys across the country said Schwarzenegger would have been
barred by visa restrictions from starting his own business. Moreover, there is
no record that the pair ever received the required state contractor's license.

"It's outrageous," said Angelo Paparelli, a longtime immigration attorney from
Irvine. "It doesn't make any sense."

This is the second instance in which Schwarzenegger may have violated the terms
of his visa. A week ago, the Mercury News also reported that the former
bodybuilder may have run afoul of his first visa by earning a weekly salary when
he arrived in 1968.

No challenges

Schwarzenegger aides declined to make the candidate available for an interview,
but challenged the contention that the young immigrant had done anything wrong.

"Every time he sought an extension it was granted, every time he had a change it
was granted, when he asked for permanent residency it was granted," said
Schwarzenegger attorney Tom Hiltachk. "He was processed throughout without any
concern by the INS."

Earlier this month, Hiltachk said Schwarzenegger obtained an H-2 work visa in
November 1969 and that it was extended several times until he became a permanent
resident in 1974. This week, Hiltachk said the files are incomplete and that it
is unclear what type of visa Schwarzenegger had when he started the bricklaying
business.

When asked last week to release his full immigration file, Schwarzenegger said,
"It's available," and told reporters to contact his attorneys for the
information. But Hiltachk later refused to provide it, citing attorney-client
privilege.

"We're not going to release an incomplete file because it doesn't tell you
anything," he said.

But whether Schwarzenegger had an H-2 or another temporary visa, immigration
attorneys said, the bodybuilder would have been barred from doing any work as a
bricklayer or contractor.

"Whether it's one hour or 40 hours a week, it was considered employment," said
Don Ungar, a San Francisco attorney who has practiced immigration law since
1962. "That would be considered a violation of your status, and he would have
been subject to deportation."

Latino votes sought

Immigration has become a central issue in the campaign to recall Democratic Gov.
Gray Davis. Schwarzenegger and Democratic Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante -- the
front-runners in the recall -- are both trying to woo Latino voters.

As the leading GOP candidate to replace Davis if he is forced from office,
Schwarzenegger has come under fire for having supported Proposition 187, the
1994 voter-approved state ballot measure that sought to bar illegal immigrants
from attending public school or using other state services. If he becomes
governor, Schwarzenegger has also vowed to fight a new law signed by Davis that
allows illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses.

The actor, who last week celebrated his 20th anniversary as a U.S. citizen, has
repeatedly said people who want to come to his adopted country must follow the
rules -- just as he did.

But whether Schwarzenegger himself followed the law is unclear.

In numerous accounts over the years, Schwarzenegger has said he was paid a
weekly salary to work for a bodybuilding magnate when he came to California
in1968. But a half-dozen immigration attorneys told the Mercury News that
arrangement would have violated his B-1 visa, which allows athletes to train but
not to be employed by U.S. companies.

The Schwarzenegger campaign denied that Schwarzenegger had ever earned a salary
and insisted that he had followed the law.

Now immigration attorneys say it appears that he also violated the terms of his
second visa by working as a bricklayer.

H-2 visas were created to allow workers from other nations to come to the United
States for short periods to take on temporary jobs such as picking seasonal
crops, cooking at summer resorts or working as ski instructors.

The visas restrict holders from doing work beyond what is explicitly approved by
the federal government.

"If they come into the United States to pick tomatoes, they can't go out and
work at McDonald's," said Nancy Alby, an assistant center director at the U.S.
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, who spoke in general about H-2
visas and did not comment specifically on Schwarzenegger's case. "They have to
do exactly what they were let into the United States to do."

Schwarzenegger came to the United States in the fall of 1968 on a restricted B-1
business visa. About a year later, he received an H-2 sponsored by Joe Weider,
founder of the International Federation of Bodybuilders and head of a
bodybuilding empire that sold magazines and vitamins.

Schwarzenegger worked for Weider, penning magazine columns, posing for photos
and promoting bodybuilding.

After the 1971 Sylmar earthquake left 65 people dead and caused more than $500
million in damage, Schwarzenegger joined forces with one of his closest friends,
fellow immigrant Franco Columbu, to launch European Brick Works in Santa Monica.

"I started up with a friend of mine a bricklaying business here, and we were
successful in no time," Schwarzenegger told Interview magazine in 1985. "We had
16 people working for us, and we were all over town, building chimneys after the
earthquake."

But Schwarzenegger said he steered clear of the manual labor.

"Franco did the bricklaying, and I was the guy who went out nicely dressed, took
the measurements and came up with the estimates," he said in a 1987 interview
with London's Mail on Sunday newspaper.

These days, Schwarzenegger is playing up the manual labor in a Spanish-language
radio ad aimed at immigrants.

"Like so many of us, he came to this country with a dream in his eye,"
Schwarzenegger's new radio ad states. "He started as a bricklayer, and through
sheer determination and hard work, he achieved the goals he set for himself."

'He was a handyman'

Schwarzenegger aide Sean Walsh refused to answer a direct question about whether
the young bodybuilder had indeed been a bricklayer.

"He was a handyman who joined Franco Columbu, a fellow bodybuilder, on odd jobs
or odd projects to lay brick for patios," said Walsh.

Walsh also questioned Schwarzenegger's claim that the two men had hired 16
people for their company.

"We can find no evidence that multiple people were involved in those
activities," he said.

Even if Schwarzenegger did violate the terms of his visa, Schwarzenegger aides
argued that it was a minor violation akin to driving 60 mph in a 55 mph zone.

But Alby with the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services said it was
much more serious than that.

"If I were a non-immigrant, I would be scared to death to do it," she said. "You
may think it's just making a few bucks on the side to pay the bills and it's not
a big deal, but you may be taking a job away from a U.S. citizen."

No license found

State officials also said there is no record that Schwarzenegger or his
bricklaying company ever had the contractor's license required for itsbusiness.
Online state records dating back to the 1920s contain no evidence that
Schwarzenegger or Columbu sought the necessary state permission to start the
company.

"We don't have any record of a European Brick Works or anybody by the name of
Franco Columbu or Arnold Schwarzenegger owning a contractor's license," said
Lynette Blumhardt of the Contractors State License Board, which regulates the
more than 278,000 contractors in California.

Columbu did not return phone calls last week for comment, but provided the
Schwarzenegger campaign with a copy of a 1971 temporary working card from the
Los Angeles County District Council of Carpenters. Walsh said the card allowed
Columbu to do bricklaying, but it is actually a union card, not a county work
permit. And the state board said the two would still have needed a contractor's
license for any jobs that cost more than $100.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Pages 1A, 21A, 22A, 23A
THE RECALL
WHO SHOULD LEAD CALIFORNIA?
REALITY CHECK
AN ANALYSIS OF CAMPAIGN COMMERCIALS
Arnold Schwarzenegger
The pitch
In his first Spanish-language radio ad, Schwarzenegger touts his support for
programs to help disadvantaged youth and his humble beginnings in the United
States.
THE MESSAGE
The 60-second ad homes in on the actor's rags-to-riches tale as an immigrant
"who came to this country with a dream in his eye." "He started as a bricklayer,
and through sheer determination and hard work, he achieved the goals he set for
himself," a narrator says. It notes his work with the Special Olympics, the
Inner-City Games Foundation and Proposition 49, the ballot measure that seeks to
set aside state money for after-school programs.
ANALYSIS
The ad is an attempt by Schwarzenegger to reach out to Latino voters, who have
largely supported Democrats in recent elections and are leaning toward
Democratic Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante in the recall. The ad's claim that
Schwarzenegger started as a bricklayer is misleading at best. Schwarzenegger
came to this country to train for and promote bodybuilding. He may have
improperly started a bricklaying business on the side, but he and his partner
have long said that Schwarzenegger was more a salesman than a bricklayer. The
actor's campaign last week refused to say he was a bricklayer. Schwarzenegger
has devoted time, energy and money to help disadvantaged youth. While
Proposition 49 seeks to set aside state money for after-school programs, it will
do so only when the state's fiscal picture improves. As of now, no state money
is being set aside to fund the measure as the commercial suggests.
-- Dion Nissenbaum

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: CHRIS CARLSON -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Arnold Schwarzenegger, the front-running Republican candidate for governor,
greets supporters Saturday in Riverside. His campaign has begun airing a
Spanish-language radio ad that touts his immigrant roots, but questions have
arisen over possible visa violations in his past.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 23, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ARNOLD AND THE RULES;
BOTH HE AND HIS CRITICS COULD BE MORE CANDID ABOUT IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 344 words


Arnold Schwarzenegger's experience as an immigrant to America mirrors that of
many who came before and since.

He worked hard after he arrived in 1968, and -- he can hardly be the first --
not always in ways that followed the letter of immigration law.

As reported by Dion Nissenbaum of the Mercury News, Schwarzenegger appears to
have violated the terms of his visa, by working at jobs that were not permitted.

Evidently the authorities didn't find out or care. Schwarzenegger went on to
become a U.S. citizen. Hardly anyone would care now, except that Schwarzenegger,
as he runs for governor, has made a point of contrasting his own immigrant
experience with those who come here illegally.

The people-in-glass-houses rule applies. Schwarzenegger has hardly been on a
stone-throwing rampage. In fact, he's praised other immigrants and compared
himself to them. But he has been tossing some pebbles.

He said immigrants ought to play by the rules. Among the rules that applied to
the visas Schwarzenegger held were ones that said he could not work for a salary
or start a business. He did both.

Schwarzenegger supported Proposition 187, which aimed to deny public benefits to
illegal immigrants. Schwarzenegger was a legal immigrant, but he was, by a
strict interpretation of the rules, an illegal worker.

A little more candor would be welcome from Schwarzenegger.

So would a little more consistency from some of his critics. Schwarzenegger
needs to clear this all up, said Art Torres, chairman of the state Democratic
Party. This would be the same Democratic Party that has been diligent in
advancing the right to work, and drive, and go to school, and be treated at the
hospital, of people who are in the country illegally.

America has been strengthened by immigrants. They frequently are people who, if
they break the rules, break them by working too hard. The country has taken a
relaxed attitude toward those violations. As long as Schwarzenegger does too,
he'll be preaching what he practiced.JOHN DEERING -- ARKANSAS DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: California recall election

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 23, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOR NOW, THE FEDERALES CAN SEE THEY'RE STUDENTS, NOT TERRORISTS.

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ, column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 561 words


Leaders of this war on terrorism can't find Osama Bin Laden or weapons of mass
destruction, but they sure know how to tackle a high school football player.

Ahmad Amin, an 18-year-old Pakistani and tight end for the Cupertino High School
Pioneers, was slapped with a deportation order recently from the federales. His
older brother, Hassan, received a deportation order, too, only his came with a
night in a county jail.

Their crime? Bad advice from an immigration lawyer a few years ago led to the
expiration of their visitors visas. Even though they had applied for green
cards, even though they had voluntarily registered after Sept. 11, 2001, even
though their eldest brother is a U.S-born citizen, they couldn't catch a break
from the hard-liners at the new Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

You never know. Any terrorist can hide under a football helmet.

"I just want to graduate from high school," Amin said at the time. "My dream is
for this to be over."

And so it may.

Apparently, a dose of common sense surfaced at the Department of Homeland
Security. The department has delayed the deportations, which will allow the
Hassan brothers to apply for temporary visas. It means Ahmad can go back to high
school and his brother can return to junior college without fear, at least for
now.

"Maybe I can think about a university," Hassan said.

There may be a happy ending after all, but that's more relief than something to
cheer about. Had the story of the Hassan brothers not appeared in the San Jose
Mercury News, the boys might have been next in line for a one-way ticket to
Pakistan.

Before Sept. 11, 2001, visa expirations rarely led to quick deportations,
especially for law-abiding immigrants with relatives who have legal status here.
These matters were taken care of administratively. All that changed after 9/11.

Once the visa of an Arab, Muslim or Middle Eastern man expires -- for whatever
reason -- he becomes an instant suspect and target of post-attack paranoia.

About 13,000 primarily Arab and Middle Eastern men and boys face deportation
after voluntarily registering with immigration officials, a program created by
Homeland Security after learning that the 9/11 terrorists had held valid visas.
Once deported, they are permanently barred from returning.

The war on terrorism is looking more like a war on immigrants. We might as well
have the Statue of Liberty dump the torch and hold up a pair of handcuffs.

Soon after 9/11 and passage of the Patriot Act, the government rounded up more
than 700 immigrants, held them in secret, and then deported scores of them on
visa violations, none with links to terrorism. Then the FBI knocked on 8,000
doors for "voluntary" interrogations.

Last December, the agency formerly known as the Immigration and Naturalization
Service jailed hundreds of Arab and Middle Eastern men in the Los Angeles area
because it couldn't process the rush of immigrants meeting the reporting
deadline. The agency admitted to bungling the process only after being accused
of ethnic cleansing.

Now we have a high school student-athlete and his brother under watch. Their
lives have been upended and the ideals of freedom and inclusion have been
sacked.

I don't know what's scarier, immigration enforcement with unbridled power or
immigration enforcement with half a brain.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEi s a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
Ahmad Amin, a Cupertino High School senior, runs through a drill with the
football team. He plays tight end.
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
Hassan Amin and his mother, Tahira Manzur, watchPakistani television in their
San Jose apartment.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 24, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

SCHWARZENEGGER INSISTS HE FOLLOWED RULES;
ACTOR HASN'T OPENED VISA FILE, CALLING IT A DIVERSION

BYLINE: DION NISSENBAUM AND LORI ARATANI, Mercury News Sacramento, Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 876 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger defended his immigration to America on Tuesday
and denied that he had broken any laws by launching a bricklaying business while
living in California on a restricted work visa.

"I have clean immigration papers," said the actor, who has so far refused to
release his immigration file. "I came in here legally with a business and
visitor visa. I have done everything legally."

His remarks followed a 35-minute question-and-answer session with supporters in
the state capital.

Elsewhere around the state, his wife, TV journalist Maria Shriver, extolled his
character and qualities as a father before San Francisco's Commonwealth Club.
Schwarzenegger's chief rival in the recall race, Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, spoke
at a vocational-training school in San Jose and attended a fundraiser in the
city that night. And Gov. Gray Davis, defending his job in the Oct. 7 election,
stumped in Southern California with U.S. Sen. and Democratic presidential
hopeful Joe Lieberman.

Schwarzenegger's visa status has been the subject of several Mercury News
articles that have raised questions about the immigration story the actor has
made a focal point of his campaign. Sunday, the newspaper reported that
Schwarzenegger may have violated the terms of his temporary work visa in the
early 1970s by launching a bricklaying business with a fellow bodybuilder.

Immigration attorneys said Schwarzenegger would have been barred at the time
from starting his own business and could have been subject to deportation. Last
week, immigration attorneys also said Schwarzenegger may have violated his first
visa by accepting a salary while working for a bodybuilding magnate.

The Schwarzenegger campaign said the actor's immigration file was incomplete and
that the fact that he had never run into any problems with immigration officials
was proof enough that the young Austrian had done nothing wrong.

Schwarzenegger dismissed the questions about his immigration to the United
States as a diversion from the real issues in the race to replace Democratic
Gov. Gray Davis, who is facing a recall election Oct. 7.

"This again takes the spotlight off the real issue," he said. "The spotlight of
the real issue is that Gray Davis has ruined this state -- single-handedly."

Ironically, Schwarzenegger's question-and-answer session at the Sheraton Grand
Hotel a few blocks from the state Capitol was held in the same ballroom where
Bustamante held his re-election victory party last fall.

The actor voiced support for charter schools and opposition to a landmark bill
on the governor's desk that would expand health care for up to a million
Californians that opponents worry could come at the expense of state business.

While Schwarzenegger was holding his town-hall meeting, his Democratic wife was
touring San Francisco to tout her husband's candidacy.

In her speech, she painted her husband as a self-made man who, despite his
millions, is in tune with inner-city youth and the working class. Her husband is
a man who gets things done, equally at ease with world leaders and the disabled,
she said.

"This former bricklayer understands working people," said Shriver, niece of the
late President Kennedy.

Shriver, who has spent time meeting women across the state, including a luncheon
with women in Mountain View on Monday, said those who say her husband lacks the
political experience to run the state are wrong.

"I think knowing the ins and outs of state government isn't enough anymore," she
said. "I believe we need someone who can not only know his wayaround the halls
of Sacramento, but someone who knows his way around the world."

People at the speech gave Shriver high marks.

"She's a great spokesperson for her husband," said Gwyneth Borden of San
Francisco. "Having heard her speak, I think more highly of him."

Even so, it's still not enough to win this Democrat's vote.

"You almost wish she was running," Borden said.

Bustamante attended what was expected to be a $50,000 fundraiser in East San
Jose hosted by Californians for an Inclusive Government, a group of South Bay
multicultural organizations.

Yesenia M. Martinez, a spokeswoman for the umbrella group hosting the
fundraiser, held at the American GI Forum on Story Road, said Bustamante would
be a governor who would dedicate himself to the quality-of-life issues important
to all residents of California. Earlier in the day, Bustamante visited the
Center for Employment Training on Vine Street, where he spoke with students and
congratulated the staff for receiving a national education award, which
recognized the school for having one of the premier training programs in the
nation.

While the leading candidates fighting to replace Davis spent the day in Northern
California, the governor toured Orange County with Lieberman.

Lieberman described the recall election as "an abuse of process" that, if
successful, would set a dangerous precedent for California and the nation.

"It is a dangerous detour for the state of California," he said. "And while
Republicans may be enjoying the roller coaster, it's time for the rest of
California to stop this ride and let the state government and your great
governor get back to work."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writers Dawn Chmielewski and Edwin Garcia contributed
to this report.
THE RECALL
WHO SHOULD LEAD CALIFORNIA?

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2003

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 09/26/03, pg. 2A)
An article Wednesday about the recall election incorrectly identified a
spokeswoman for a group that hosted a fundraiser for Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante.
She is Yesenia M. Ramirez.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 24, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A JOURNEY FOR CHANGE;
BAY AREA IMMIGRANTS TAKE PART IN BUS TOUR TO PROMOTE CIVIL RIGHTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 547 words


With incense burning and a Roman Catholic priest's blessings, a busload of
immigrants left San Jose early Tuesday on a cross-country journey they hope will
change the way America views and treats immigrants.

Calling themselves the Freedom Riders, a tribute to civil-rights activists who
went on a similar journey in the 1960s, about 800 immigrants from 10 U.S. cities
boarded buses that will converge Oct. 4 in New York City.

The goal of the Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride is threefold: to legalize
undocumented immigrants, reunite families and protect workers' rights without
regard to immigration status. Those from the Bay Area will make 93 stops in 42
states, said Lisa Jakes, a spokeswoman for the Freedom Riders in the Bay Area.

"My family went through a lot being immigrants from Sicily," said Gaspare
Aliotti, 57, a sous chef from Monterey, one of 21 riders that boarded the busat
sunrise in the parking lot of the South Bay Labor Council in San Jose.

The San Jose bus stopped in Oakland to pick up more riders and to meet up with a
bus from San Francisco. In all, about 100 riders from the Bay Area are headed
east.

"It's important for me to have the contribution of immigrants be recognized,"
said Aliotti, whose father emigrated from Italy in 1933 to work as a commercial
fisherman in Monterey.

The riders are immigrants old and new, as well as passionate advocates who
sympathize with the plight of immigrants:

Aliotti's great-grandfather came from Sicily in 1891. Lily Nguyen, 34, an
electronic-assembly worker from San Jose, left Vietnam in 1990. And John
Freesemann, 56, pastor of the Holy Redeemer Lutheran Church in San Jose, doesn't
have recent immigrant roots but believes in the cause.

"There will be no justice in this land until all of us understand what it is
like to be an immigrant," Freesemann said.

The original Freedom Riders were student activists who rode buses and trains
from Washington, D.C., to Alabama in 1961 to protest racial segregation. Their
widely publicized rides drew national attention to the civil-rights struggle and
the support of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.

David Ray, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national group that advocates limits to immigration, decried the current Freedom
Riders' allusion to the civil-rights movement.

"It's ironic that illegal aliens are ignoring our immigration laws and then they
paint themselves as victims," Ray said. "They're victims of their own
lawlessness."

For many on the San Jose bus, it will be their first trip across the country and
first visit to New York City.

"That is my big dream, to have my picture taken with the Statue of Liberty and
send it to my family in El Salvador," said Juan Carlos Huezo-Fuentes, 31, a
caterer from San Jose.

Friends of the riders -- clergy, labor leaders and community activists -- joined
Tuesday's send off. Organizers said they have prepared for possible
counter-demonstrations: At least one is expected in New Jersey.

"I have never been to 'The Heartland' of America," said Maggie Santos, 48, who
emigrated from Mexico in 1999. "I hope they will listen to my story there."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For more information about the Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride, visit
www.iwfr.org.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 30, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FREEDOM RIDE IS A REMINDER OF OUR HISTORY OF IMMIGRATION TODD MIZENER;
ASSOCIATED PRESS

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 645 words


Crossing the country from several cities, 18 busloads of "Freedom Riders" like
Federico Gonzalez and Maggie Santos may do what politicians and lawyers cannot
-- remove the pall of terrorism cast upon immigrants after Sept. 11, 2001, and
put their rights back on the agenda.

Dubbed the Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride, 800 immigrants and supporters from
around the country will stop at key cities before arriving in New York City on
Saturday

"I can't wait to get to Washington," Gonzalez told the New York Times, as she
sat on a bus speeding through the New Mexico desert. An ice cream truck driver,
Gonzalez boarded the bus in Tucson, AZ. "I'm going to be screaming loud. I just
want to make sure they listen to us."

Maggie Santos, who emigrated from Mexico four years ago, boarded a bus in San
Jose.

"I have never been to the heartland of America," she told San Jose Mercury News
reporter Jessie Mangaliman. "I hope they will listen to my story there."

The individual stories on this remarkable bus ride deserve to be heard. They are
reminders of the proud history of American immigration and because we need
immigration policies that reflect reality, not fear.

As with the famous civil rights Freedom Ride in the 1960s, the purpose isn't
push specific legislation. Instead, there are several goals, including amnesty
for illegal immigrants, job protections and restoration of civil rights for
detainees.

The labor unions and immigrant-advocacy groups organizing the ride hope to
attract 100,000 to a rally in New York, but I'd be surprised if they do. The
country is still too shell-shocked to embrace immigrants, a fear anti-immigrant
groups are taking full advantage of.

"There's something almost Orwellian for people violating the laws of the country
to go en masse to Congress to demand their rights under the law," said Ira
Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington.

Orwellian? Excuse me, but if any totalitarian threat has emerged over the past
two years, it's the government's panoply of new laws and powers to snoop on
ordinary citizens and hold immigrants on the flimsiest suspicion of terrorist
activity.

Of course, there are serious questions on immigration that need a healthy debate
in this country. For example, should we change from an immigration policy based
on reuniting families to one that fills labor shortages in specific industries?
Whatever a new immigration policy might be, we still ought to end the
exploitation and shabby legal treatment of immigrant workers.

The Immigrant Freedom Ride will never persuade the hardliners who believe all
illegal immigrants ought to be rounded up and deported. But the majority of
Americans know that immigration is a complex issue, exacerbated by more by labor
shortages here and forces abroad.

The stories of these Freedom Riders are as diverse as you might expect.

Dhel Galwak Jourchol is on the same bus as Mr. Gonzales. Jourchol is a refugee
from Sudan with a U.S. law degree, but he said he could not get a job as a
corrections officer because he isn't a citizen. Even so, he's not bitter. Quite
the opposite.

"I love the freedom here," he said. "I want to take the system here, and someday
establish it in my country. We really appreciate what America has done for us,
and we will pay you back someday."

(Note to President Bush on post-war Iraq and nation-building in general: One
grateful immigrant is worth a platoon of Marines.)

And then there is bus rider Gaspare Aliotti, a sous chef from Monterrey, CA.
He's not an immigrant. His father was.

"My family went through a lot being immigrants from Sicily," Aliotti said. "It's
important for me to have to have the contributions of immigrants be recognized."

The Immigrant Freedom Ride may be a one-way trip, but it follows a road that
many of us or our ancestors traveled before.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TODD MIZENER -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Juan Pablo Chavez, center, leads Freedom Riders in a chant Sunday after rolling
into Davenport, Iowa, from Chicago.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 8, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT CITIZENS LIKELIER TO OWN HOMES

BYLINE: GENARO C. ARMAS, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Asians and Hispanics who immigrate to the United States and become naturalized
citizens are more likely to own homes than members of the same groups who are
born in the country, the Census Bureau reported Tuesday.

About 63 percent of foreign-born Hispanics who are naturalized citizens owned
their homes in 2002, compared with 54 percent of Hispanics born in the United
States, the bureau said. The difference was even greater between naturalized
immigrant Asians and native-born Asian-Americans: 70 percent to 57 percent.

Like U.S. homeownership overall, rates in these race and ethnic groups have
increased generally since the mid-1990s, helped by falling interest rates and an
economy that was booming for most of the period.

Still, some experts were mildly surprised that people born outside the country
were more apt to own homes than native-born people in the same racial or ethnic
group.

Possible explanations include a strong desire among immigrants to own homes,
said Robert Lang, a metropolitan development and planning professor at Virginia
Tech University.

"Remember what we export in terms of pop culture often revolves around owning a
home, especially older popular culture about suburbia," Lang said. "A lot of
people come to this country eager to participate fully in American life."

Generally, immigrants who are in the country longer, regardless of citizenship
status, are more likely to be homeowners. For instance, 60 percent of
naturalized citizens who arrived in 1975 or later owned their homes, compared
with 77 percent of those who arrived before 1975.

Although the foreign-born population is concentrated in urban areas in gateway
states like New York and California, sizable increases were evident in the
immigrant population over the 1990s in more affordable states such as North
Carolina and Nevada, said Janis Bowdler, housing-policy analyst for the National
Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy group.

"Generally, homeownership in many foreign countries requires a much larger down
payment than in the United States, and many immigrants are surprised by the
opportunity," said Lawrence Yun, senior economist at the National Association of
Realtors.

The Census Bureau study found the overall homeownership rate rose from 64
percent in 1994 to a record high of 67.9 percent in 2002.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
HOME OF THEIR OWN.
[Chart not taken in database]
Source: U.S. Census Bureau

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 14, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. TO FALL SHORT OF 5.6 MILLION WORKERS

BYLINE: From the Associated Press and Dow Jones News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 149 words


The United States will run short of 5.6 million technology workers by 2010 and
would benefit from encouraging immigration and outsourcing more business
services abroad, a market research report prepared for India's main software
advocacy group has contended.

Offshore outsourcing -- migration of tech jobs to relatively low-paid workers in
countries like India -- has saved millions of dollars for U.S. companies but has
also left thousands of American programmers unemployed.

An Indian programmer earns about a fifth of what an American one does.

Attempting to counter moves that would restrict that business and cut back on
visas for Indian professionals, the National Association of Software and Service
Companies, or NASSCOM, commissioned the report from Evalueserve, a New York
market research firm.

A copy of the report was made available to the Associated Press on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Business Briefing
Asia News
LABOR

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 10, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONTROVERSIAL LICENSE LAW LOOKS DOOMED;
LATINOS ADD VOICE TO BACKLASH OVER IMMIGRANTS' DRIVING RIGHTS

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1143 words


Esther Lopez did not fit into anyone's political calculations in the weeks
leading up to the recall election. But her angry voice can be heard loud and
clear in its aftermath.

Lopez, a 57-year-old convalescent-home worker in Watsonville whose parents
immigrated legally from Mexico, is chafing against a new law that allows illegal
immigrants to apply for driver's licenses. The law offends her sense of justice.
She says Gov. Gray Davis only signed it to win Latino votes like hers.

"How can you reward people that are illegal here?" she asked. "I'm a Mexican,
but I was brought up by laws."

Lopez's reaction is a harsh reminder to Democrats who assume that Latino voters
will automatically adopt liberal, pro-immigrant viewpoints. While Latino
activists, legislators and Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante championed the law as a
matter of justice for undocumented workers, 52 percent of Latinos who voted in
last month's recall election were against the measure, as were 69 percent of all
voters, according to an exit poll by Edison/Mitofsky.

Now the law, which ends a decade-old requirement that drivers prove they're in
the state legally, looks likely to be repealed -- if not by the Legislature,
then by the voters or in court.

Today, the conservative Pacific Legal Foundation intends to file suit to get the
law invalidated. But even if legal challenges fail, a popular backlash already
has begun, supported by Gov.-elect Arnold Schwarzenegger.

A referendum to repeal the law is heading for the March ballot, if the
Legislature does not act before the law takes effect Jan. 1. Another group is
aiming to put a constitutional amendment on the November 2004 ballot to block
any future attempts to allow illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses.

Changing positions

Latino politicians who pushed the measure during the recall figured Davis would
be too weak to veto it as he had done the year before. But some are rethinking
their positions. One, Assemblywoman Gloria Negrete McLeod, whose San Bernardino
County district voted overwhelmingly for the recall, said she will sponsor
legislation to repeal the law she voted for.

Her change of heart has infuriated Latino activists, who picketed her district
office in Montclair.

"She surrendered the fight before it even began," said Nativo Lopez, president
of the Mexican American Political Association and national director of Hermandad
Mexicana Latinoamericana. "The same argument that is being used by McLeod today
was being used by them: 'Oh, my God. If we don't do this, those Republicans are
going to do something worse.' "

He hopes to gather 100,000 letters to send to Schwarzenegger, who pledgedto get
the law repealed.

State Sen. Gloria Romero, D-Rosemead, said her relatives called her to complain
after she voted for the bill, which she continues to support.

"I represent East L.A. and saw a lack of cohesion," Romero said. "This was not
the issue to outreach to the Latinos. The Latino community is much more than the
undocumented. They care about education, health care."

The law's overwhelming unpopularity suggests the Democrats who pushed the
measure, including its author, Los Angeles state Sen. Gil Cedillo, ventured too
far in the partisan heat of the recall election.

"Now they appear to be running against a firestorm," said Jaime Regalado, head
of the Pat Brown Institute of Public Affairs at California State University-Los
Angeles. "I think what this means for the smart Latinos is they're going to have
to back off."

Cedillo has said he is talking with Schwarzenegger, who campaigned on a promise
to repeal the law, about a possible compromise, but Schwarzenegger's office says
it is not negotiating.

Gregory Rodriguez, a senior scholar at the New America Foundation, said the
law's poor showing among Latinos is not surprising, because the community
consists of successive waves of immigrants who do not necessarily view one
another sympathetically.

"There is no common experience," he said. "The only time we come together, same
with everyone else, is when we get attacked."

Latinos also were divided over Proposition 187 early on but turned strongly
against it after a harsh campaign that many felt was directed at them. The
measure, which sought to deny schooling, health care and other benefits to
illegal immigrants, passed but was struck down in court.

The driver's license debate, however, encompasses more than just immigration,
raising questions about road safety and homeland security. In interviews, Latino
voters weighed the need for cheap, plentiful labor against the issues of
fairness to legal immigrants, national security and safety behind the wheel.

Advocates argue it is better to let the estimated 2 million illegal immigrants
of driving age in California get licenses, since many will drive anyway. At
least then they would have to pass a driving test.

Industry support

That argument persuaded the insurance lobby to support an earlier version of the
bill, which had more security precautions than what became law. And it appeals
to Richard De La Rosa, an Allstate Insurance agent running for San Jose City
Council in March.

"Wouldn't it be nice to know who's behind the wheel?" he asked. "Wouldn't it be
nice to know they could get insurance?"

The new law might also stamp out the trade in forged licenses that De La Rosa
says thrives in places like San Jose's Tropicana shopping center, to the dismay
of local merchants.

But then he remembers the people who waited years to come to this country
legally, and it gives him pause.

"They did it the right way, and all of the sudden California wants to reward
those that don't," he said. "My conservative side says no. My business side says
yes."

For Julio Lucas, who owns a direct-marketing company in San Jose, the question
is not how to stem the flow of illegal immigrants (he prefers to call them
"human capital"). What concerns him is the lack of security checks, which he
cannot accept in the post-Sept. 11 world.

"We want to embrace any immigrant," Lucas said. "I want to start with those in
the Western hemisphere."

Lucas supports Schwarzenegger's bid to repeal the law in a special legislative
session next week, but would like to see a better law passed -- one emphasizing
the importance of immigrant labor to the economy.

Schwarzenegger's opposition rankles others.

Abby Duran, a high-tech products engineer who lives in Willow Glen, agrees the
law could be made tougher. But, he said, the governor-elect's blanket opposition
is hypocritical given his history. Schwarzenegger appears to have skirted
immigration law when he started a brick-laying business that likely violated the
terms of his visa.

Duran said Schwarzenegger "should look at his past and where he camefrom."

And the driver's license law?

"I think he should leave it alone."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Ann E. Marimow contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: McLeod

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 12, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S.-MEXICO IMMIGRATION TALKS RESUME;
SYMBOLISM MAY OUTWEIGH SUBSTANCE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 836 words


For the first time since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, American and Mexican
Cabinet officials will meet today in Washington to resume talks on one of the
most critical issues facing U.S.-Mexico relations: immigration reform.

Few believe that the new round of talks will approach the scope or enthusiasm of
the dialogue that began with Mexican President Vicente Fox and President George
W. Bush just days before terrorists hit the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

But the discussions mark a turning point that could help drive several pieces of
legislation already under way in Congress, including plans to give farmworkers
temporary visas and grant amnesty to tens of thousands of undocumented workers
and college-bound children of illegal immigrants.

Some U.S. employers who rely on Mexican labor are cautiously optimistic.

"I do think that Bush has a sincere desire to address this issue, but I don't
think it's going to move as quickly as Fox would like," said John Gay, a vice
president with the American Hotel and Lodging Association, a national trade
group based in Washington.

But the latest talks, some political observers believe, will be more symbolic
than substantive at a time when Bush is seeking re-election and Fox is trying to
bolster his popularity midway through his term.

U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell and other Bush administration officials
have repeated their commitment to immigration issues but have cautioned "not to
raise expectations" for an accord, a State Department official said at a media
briefing Monday.

Hopes are up

"The Mexicans are overestimating this opening, thinking that this is going to
lead to a real resumption of real discussions," said Demetrios Papademetriou,
co-director of the Migration Policy Institute in Washington. "And the White
House is playing it down because it has not made up its mind that this is a good
political issue."

Bush and Fox met briefly last month in Bangkok at an international economic
summit and later announced that they would resume their discussion during
Wednesday's meeting of the U.S.-Mexico Binational Commission, made up of nine
U.S. Cabinet secretaries and eight of their Mexican counterparts.

Immigration is a crucial issue for the United States and Mexico. The U.S. trades
$240 billion annually with its southern neighbor and Mexican workers -- from
lettuce growers to strawberry pickers -- form the backbone of the American
agriculture industry. An estimated 8 million to 10 million undocumented
immigrants live in the United States, many of them Mexicans who send money to
their families back home.

Those who advocate tighter immigration policy hope the Bush-Fox talks will crack
down on illegal immigration and lead to tougher security at the border.

"I think that Mexico has done a good job pressing for its best interest. But the
U.S. has to ask itself: What's in it for us?" said David Ray, spokesman for
FAIR, or the Federation for American Immigration Reform, in Washington. "Mexico
is asking for unfettered access to every job in America, and it's not
cooperating on border security."

In his talks with Fox before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Bush made clear his
support for the creation of a guest-worker program while remaining opposed to
blanket amnesty. That dialogue "transformed the immigration debate from how do
we repress it to how do we regulate it," said Frank Sharry, executive director
of the National Immigration Forum.

Key legislation

But the real work, Sharry said, is now being hammered out with bipartisan
support in Congress with three key pieces of immigration legislation:

* The DREAM Act would give legal and permanent status to tens of thousands of
children of undocumented immigrants. The bill, sponsored by U.S. Sen. Orrin
Hatch, R-Utah, recently passed in the Senate Judiciary Committee and is awaiting
a full vote by the Senate.

* In September, Democratic and Republican lawmakers jointly proposed legislation
that would allow 500,000 undocumented farmworkers to become legal U.S.
residents. The bill is awaiting a vote in the judiciary committee.

* In the summer, Republican lawmakers, U.S. Reps. Jeff Flake and Jim Kolbe and
Sen. John McCain, all of Arizona, proposed creating a guest-worker program that
would give temporary visas to seasonal farmworkers who live in Mexico but
sometimes work in the United States. The bill would also allow some undocumented
workers to become legal residents. The bill is waiting for a hearing before the
House subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Claims.

The congressional initiatives are vital to resolving a complex problem, said
Marco Alcazar, Mexican consul-general in San Jose, but the renewed talks between
Bush and Fox deliver a strong message that's equally important.

"The message is we're friends," said Alcazar, former head of Mexico's border
control agency. "Things may not be smooth all the time, but we have the capacity
and the will to solve difficult problems."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 12, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ARRESTED WORKERS FILE LAWSUIT;
WAL-MART, CONTRACTORS ACCUSED OF RACKETEERING

BYLINE: JEFFREY GOLD, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


Workers recently arrested in federal raids filed a racketeering lawsuit accusing
Wal-Mart of conspiring with contractors in a criminal enterprise that violated
the civil rights and wage protections of immigrants who cleaned its stores.

The federal court lawsuit seeks class-action status for perhaps thousands of
immigrants, legal and illegal, hired by the contractors to clean the stores of
the world's largest retailer, said a lawyer for the plaintiffs, James L. Linsey.

The scheme by Wal-Mart and the contractors violated the Racketeering Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations Act, known as RICO, by systematically depriving the
workers of labor law protections over at least the past three years, according
to the lawsuit.

"It's all designed to exploit the weakest, most vulnerable people in the world,"
Linsey said Tuesday, a day after the lawsuit was filed. He said the action
replaces a lawsuit filed in state Superior Court last week by the same workers
that sought more than $200,000 in back pay.

The lawsuit seeks unspecified monetary damages and an injunction barring
Wal-Mart from further violations.

The nine named plaintiffs, all from Mexico, were among 250 people arrested Oct.
23 by federal immigration agents during raids at 60 Wal-Mart stores in 21
states. They have been released to await deportation proceedings, Linsey said.

Wal-Mart spokeswoman Mona Williams said the claims have no merit and the company
will seek to have the lawsuit dismissed.

"The Wal-Mart culture is based on respect for other people, and we would never
condone treating anyone poorly, legal or otherwise. We want to get to the bottom
of this and are as eager as anyone to see whatever evidence federal officials
might have," Williams said.

She said about 700 of its 3,000 U.S. stores are now cleaned by outside
contractors, down from 1,500 several years ago.

The company acknowledged last week that federal prosecutors gave notice it is
the target of a criminal investigation into the hiring of illegal immigrants.

An employer can face civil and criminal penalties for knowingly hiring illegal
immigrants or failing to comply with certain employee record-keeping
regulations.

The nine workers, who cleaned stores in New Jersey, maintain they were denied
overtime pay and that contractors failed to withhold taxes or make required
workers' compensation contributions.

The contractor arrangement was "an effort to disguise Wal-Mart's role as a joint
employer of its janitors," the lawsuit said. "Wal-Mart was fully aware of and
aided and abetted the rampant violation of immigration and labor law and other
laws by its various janitorial contractors."

Also sued were four New Jersey contracting firms and their principals: Facility
Solutions, whose location was not immediately clear, and owner Kenneth Clancy;
Ruth and Sons, no location given, and principal Giovanni Alabena; JWM Commercial
Cleaning, of Dover, Morris County, and owner Felipe Soto; and RT Cleaning, of
New Brunswick, and owner Raul Tijerino.

None of the companies had listed phones.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 18, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MELTING POT HEATS UP;
BEING AMERICAN DOESN'T MEAN GIVING UP YOUR OWN ETHNIC CULTURE

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 627 words


After writing about a Mexican-American art and book store at a suburban shopping
mall in San Jose, I knew I'd hear from members of the culturally correct.

"You know, most immigrants leave their countries because they are the poor,
oppressed people," one reader wrote. "You would think most of them believe as my
relatives thought when they left Ireland that they were glad to be given the
opportunity to start a new life, free from poverty and be able to become
AMERICANS."

And my description of Chicanos as Mexican-Americans who don't see themselves as
Anglos, or whites, was too much for another reader:

"Does that mean they don't want to be Americans?"

For some reason, the old expectation that all immigrants or minority groups
should dump their languages and heritage and conform to a uniform American
culture, whatever that may be, just won't go away. You'd think the greatest
threat to the republic wasn't terrorism, but the suspicious hyphen.

The fear that hyphenated folk -- Mexican-Americans, Asian-Americans and others
-- can't be fully American is real and simmers just below the surface. It
usually erupts during periods of high immigration or economic strain, and
manifests itself through anti-immigration politics and extreme rhetoric about
the Balkanization of America and Quebec-style separatism.

The question is: How can you be a loyal American and still cling to your
Mexican, Chicano or other ethnic roots?

I could answer with the number of Mexican-American graves in military cemeteries
across the country, the number of Purple Hearts won by Japanese-Americans in
World War II, or the number of Native Americans who died for the United States
in the Vietnam War. But I'd rather talk about my arguments with Aunt Bea.

"Don't you dare call me a Chicano," she'd tell me when I fancied myself a
Chicano radical way back when. "Don't call me Mexican-American either. Not even
American of Mexican descent. Just call me American, period."

The irony was, my American-born and raised aunt spoke better Spanish and was
more Mexican than I'll ever be. And my English is better and I am more
Americanized than she ever was.

The lesson I eventually learned from those tortured discussions was that we
should separate ethnicity from American national identity in much the same way
we have separated church and state in our form of government. We can choose to
be as culturally Mexican, Vietnamese, Italian or Cuban as we like and still be
100 percent American citizens.

If I'm Catholic or Jewish or Muslim, does that mean I can't love America? Of
course it doesn't. One would never ask an Irish-American on St. Patrick's Day if
he's loyal to America.

So what does it mean then, really, to be Mexican-American? It surely involves
the pleasures of food, language, music and holiday customs. But on a deeper
level, being Mexican-American means that this group's ethnic culture will form
the core of a large, regional identity evolving in the Southwest and parts of
the West.

Does this spell a Mexican "reconquista"? Not at all.

Of all the experiences of being Mexican-American, one of the most important is
an awareness that cultural assimilation is a two-way street. I will become more
like you and you will become more like me. New cultures evolve by borrowing and
sharing. Mexican-Americans have become who they are after centuries of cultural
evolution between Spaniards and Indians and blacks in Mexico, and then from
decades of acculturation between Mexicans and Americans in the United States.

So, being Mexican-American shouldn't be seen as holding on to a foreign
identity. It's another way of being an American, so much so that you can now buy
a piece of Mexican-American culture at the all-American shopping mall.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Customers browse at Raices Art Gallery and Bookstore in Eastridge Mall. The
store specializes in Mexican-American art and literature.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 19, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A DIFFERENT FAMILY RITUAL: HOT POT;
COMING TOGETHER AROUND A CONTAINER OF BOILING BROTH

BYLINE: MARIAN LIU, Mercury News

SECTION: FOOD; Pg. 5E

LENGTH: 690 words


I've never eaten turkey for Thanksgiving.

Such holidays were foreign to my immigrant family, so my parents extended their
own traditions.

Instead of stuffing ourselves with sleep-inducing meat, we ate the Chinese
version of holiday food, huokuo, or hot pot. The effect was the same -- the
whole family gathered around food and ate ourselves silly. But overall I think
our meal was healthier and, for me, even tastier.

Hot pot is traditionally eaten on Lunar New Year's Eve. The communal activity
represents the bond of the family, which gathers around a warm pot to share good
wishes for the coming year.

International flavor

The dish is just what it sounds like: a hot pot of boiling water or broth into
which food is dipped and cooked.

According to "Food Lover's Companion," each country has its own version of hot
pot. The English have a Lancashire hot pot that includes mutton, sheep kidneys,
oysters and potatoes. The French hot pot or hochepot contains pig's ears and
feet.

The Asian version of hot pot originated in northern China, where the dish helped
fend off the chill of harsh winters. The Japanese hot pot, or shabu-shabu, is
named after the sound made when meat is swished through the broth. It tends to
be lighter in flavor than the Korean hot pot, which contains more garlic and
pepper, or the Thai hot pot, which includes more hot, sour and sweet tastes.

For my family's hot pot, my mom uses an electric frying pan, but an electric wok
or deep soup pot will also do the trick.

Instead of sitting down to food that's already prepared, family members submerge
raw food into the pot of boiling liquid, cook it and dip it into sauce. You
don't really need a recipe for hot pot, since almost anything will work. But
here are some tips to create your own hot pot tradition:

Use separate wooden chopsticks for the pot and for each diner. This way raw and
cooked food never mix. For slippery food that escapes chopsticks, use a metal
ladle. Remember, it's called hot pot for a reason -- tongues should beware of
piping hot food.

The fun thing about hot pot is it isn't just a great meal -- it's an activity.
Family members, at least in my family, will literally fight over the single pot
to grab the food they laid down.

Thinly cut meat boils faster. The thinner the better. Chinese supermarkets, such
as Lion or 99 Ranch, carry meat cut specifically for hot pot. Or you can ask a
butcher to cut it for you. We usually use pork, chicken and beef. The meat is
done when the color fades completely, but beef can get tough really fast if it's
overcooked, so watch your pot carefully.

Seafood adds a nice touch to the meal. But be sure to buy fresh seafood and to
clean it and cook it thoroughly. Certain raw foods can make you sick. In Hong
Kong, the Department of Health issues warnings about improperly prepared seafood
in hot pot or the use of raw eggs.

Even veteran hot pot diners can make mistakes. When we were in college, my
brother and I figured hot pot was an easy way to escape cooking, so we ate hot
pot for a week, without changing the soup. The result: a stinky apartment and
two sick siblings.

For a balanced meal, add vegetables and pasta, such as clear vermicelli or egg
noodles. Spinach and napa cabbage are favorites in my family. But noodles absorb
water or broth, so remember to have lots of liquid on hand or save the noodles
for last.

For kicks, add something exotic. We add pork rinds for crunch, tofu for texture,
mushrooms for flavor and meatballs for fun. You can even toss in some dumplings.

Sauce and soup

Finally, the traditional dip is usually a sauce made of raw egg and shacha, or
dried shrimp, peanuts, garlic, hot pepper, tea leaves and salt. But for those
worried about using raw eggs, any sauce made from peanut paste, sesame oil,
vinegar, hot sauce or soy sauce will work.

The best part of the meal is the end -- the soup. Although water works, starting
your hot pot with chicken broth makes the result even more savory. Finishing up
with some noodles and a soup made of all your boiled goodies really warms the
stomach -- no matter what the holiday.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: VICTOR JOSE COBO -- MERCURY NEWS
Some Bay Area restaurants offer hot-pot dishes. At Hot Pot City in Milpitas,
patrons select their ingredients and then cook the food.
PHOTO: VICTOR JOSE COBO -- MERCURY NEWS
Hot pot is traditionally eaten on Lunar New Year's Eve. But it's a delicious
communal activity any time of the year.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 20, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REREGISTRATION FOR IMMIGRANTS DRAWS PROTEST

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 425 words


The federal government has failed to notify tens of thousands of men and boys
from certain Middle Eastern, African and Asian countries that they are required
to reregister as part of a national security program, civil libertarians and
immigrant advocates said Wednesday.

About 60 people chanting, "Registration, no more!" outside of the federal
immigration offices in downtown San Francisco protested the controversial
program, which began last November in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks.

Special registration requires male citizens of 24 primarily Muslim countries to
be fingerprinted and photographed as part of the government's national security
effort to track the movement of foreign visitors to the United States. More than
80,000 have registered.

The American Civil Liberties Union and other civil rights organizations have
criticized the federal government for not giving adequate notification to people
that they must return to reregister a year later.

"It looks to us like legal entrapment," said Banafsheh Akhlaghi, an immigration
lawyer from San Francisco who represents dozens of Bay Area men and boys who
registered last year and now are facing deportation for having expired visas.

One Bay Area resident, a math teacher from Oakland who asked not to be
identified, said he thought the special registration was "a one-time process."

"I didn't know I had to go back and register again," said the 54-year-old
teacher, who was detained for five days and is now fighting to stay in the
United States.

Samina Faheem, who operates a free national hotline on special registration,
said she has heard similar concerns from callers around the country. The hotline
is based in Fremont.

"People are not aware that they are required to reregister even though they
might have gotten a bunch of papers explaining it," Faheem said.

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the Citizenship and Immigration Services, the
former INS, said everyone who registered was informed, on paper and verbally, of
the requirement.

"We feel like there's every reason to believe that they were informed properly,"
Rummery said Wednesday.

The reregistration process is a shorter, streamlined version, she said: "It's
basically a review."

Hundreds of Iranians in Los Angeles and the Bay Area were detained after
registering last December after federal immigration officials found that they
had overstayed their visas. Immigration lawyers said most of them have pending
applications for green cards, or permanent residency.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHO MUST REGISTER
Men and boys 16 and older from certain countries who are notpermanent U.S.
residents have to register with the Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Visitors from the following countries are required to register:
Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, Syria, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Bangladesh,
Indonesia, Kuwait, Jordan, Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon,
Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and
Yemen.
Source: Citizenship and Immigration Services

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 21, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CENSUS: HOMES MOST CROWDED IN CALIFORNIA;
CLOSE LIVING IS DUE TO HOUSING COSTS, IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 385 words


California has the highest percentage of crowded households in the continental
United States, largely because of immigration and high housing prices, according
to a 2000 Census report released Thursday.

Crowded households accounted for about one in seven of California's households
in 2000, or 15.2 percent. That's a slightly lower percentage than in Hawaii,
where 15.9 percent of families live in close quarters.

But in sheer numbers, California surpasses Hawaii and the rest of the country:
About 1.6 million families live in crowded conditions in the Golden State,
compared with about 57,000 in the Aloha State. Moreover, nine of the top 10
large cities in the nation with the highest incidence of crowding are in
California, including Salinas, the only one in Northern California.

The U.S. Census Bureau defines crowded households as those with more than one
person per room, excluding bathrooms, porches and hallways.

"High housing costs are obviously a factor," said Hans Johnson, the Public
Policy Institute of California, the demographer for the Public Policy Institute
of California, a San Francisco-based think tank. "But recent immigrant
households are among the most crowded, even in states where housing prices
aren't as high, like Texas."

Texas has the third-highest incidence of crowding, with 9.6 percent, or more
than half a million households.

Some experts note that so-called crowded conditions may be more acceptable in
some cultures than others. Although crowding most often is associated with
poverty, a study by Dowell Myers, director of the Demographic Futures Project at
the University of Southern California, found that well-to-do Asian-Americans
often lived in more crowded conditions than low-income black Americans.

"It's partly a matter of cultural viewpoint," Myers said. "Some immigrants don't
consider it crowding."

Crowding nationwide increased from 4.9 percent in 1990 to 5.7 percent in 2000,
driven largely by immigration, according to the report. Myers said the children
of immigrants and their offspring generally tend to move to more spacious
quarters.

The report also found that Texas was the only state with more than 1 million new
units while four states had more than half a million new units: California,
Florida, Georgia and North Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
To read the report, visit www.census.gov:
prod: 2003pubs: c2kbr-32.pdf.
CROWDED LIVING
Nine of the nation's 10 most crowded cities with 100,000 people or more are in
California, according to a 2000 census report released Thursday. The U.S. Census
Bureau defines crowding as more than one person per room, excluding bathrooms
and porches. The cities below are followed by their percentage of crowded
households.
1. Santa Ana: 50.3 percent
2. East Los Angeles(*): 48.8
3. El Monte: 47.7
4. Pomona: 34.5
5. Salinas: 32.7
6. Norwalk: 31.8
7. Oxnard: 31.2
8. Hialeah, Fla.: 30.6
9. Garden Grove: 29.9
10. Inglewood: 27.9
(*)East Los Angeles is a census-designated place, not a city. (*)(*) Because of
sampling error, small percentage differences may not be statistically
significant.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
MERCURY NEWS

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 24, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS HELD CAPTIVE RESCUED;
6 ARRESTED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 95 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Six immigrants were rescued after authorities received a tip from a relative
that they were being held captive by smugglers, officials said.

The undocumented immigrants, including two children, were found at an East Los
Angeles home Saturday evening. Six other people were arrested for investigation
of false imprisonment, Los Angeles County sheriff's Sgt. Art Lucas said.

"It appears as though these people were being smuggled and being forced to pay
for their release by their captors," Lucas said.

The alleged victims later were released by officials.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 25, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A TOUGH CHOICE FACES SENATOR;
LAW'S AUTHOR TRIES FOR COMPROMISE

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 671 words


Gil Cedillo made what seemed a farfetched campaign promise to his East Los
Angeles constituents when they elected him to the state Legislature in 1998. He
also made it to his wife as she was dying of cancer in 2002.

That promise -- legislation to allow illegal immigrants to apply for driver's
licenses -- finally was signed into law in September by then-Gov. Gray Davis.
But Monday, with mounting public dissatisfaction throughout California, Cedillo
turned the tables on his own bill, persuading his Senate Democratic colleagues
to join Republicans to repeal the measure.

For Cedillo, it was the only way to keep his promise alive. After the Assembly
delivers the expected death knell next week, he'll get a chance to rewrite the
measure to the liking of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who wants stricter security
and insurance provisions added before he will support such a law.

Though some legislators go to Sacramento to make colossal changes in education
policy, and others to protest higher taxes, Cedillo, a former labor leader, is
content with being one of the staunchest advocates for immigrants, both
documented and undocumented.

He naturally receives laurels from liberals.

"I've seen few people, even within Democrats, who support Latino causes the way
that he does," said Martha Campos, a leader of Comite Cesar Chavez, a community
advocacy group that provides orientation to new immigrants in San Jose.

And, just as naturally, he's held in contempt by conservatives.

"His effort is misguided and actually is a slap in the face to people who obey
our laws and come here legally," said Mike Spence, president of the California
Republican Assembly. His group has gathered more than 350,000 signatures to
place the driver's license question before voters in March, should the
Legislature fail to repeal the law slated to take effect Jan. 1.

Now, more than ever, Cedillo must find a way to bridge the political divide.

"It's difficult for me to be here and ask you to do this," Cedillo told senators
Monday while pleading for their votes to repeal the law. "I have met with the
governor; I believe him, I trust him. He has articulated a manner in which we
can resolve concerns of mutual interest."

Cedillo, a University of California-Los Angeles graduate who received his law
degree from the People's College of Law, wasn't always as accommodating.

His intense focus on fulfilling the promise the past five years, regardless of
the opposition, has led to criticism by some who say he charges ahead on his
bills without building consensus within his own party.

His persistence severely strained his relationship with Davis, a longtime
friend, when the governor vetoed one of his driver's license measures in 2002.

Cedillo fumed, saying Davis had promised to sign the bill after it had been
amended with provisions to thwart terrorists from obtaining licenses. Cedillo
then indirectly encouraged Latinos to vote against Davis' 2002 re-election bid,
and he caused temporary turmoil within the Latino Legislative Caucus when he
unsuccessfully urged the membership to not endorse the governor's candidacy.

Davis signed a less restrictive version of the bill Sept. 5, during the recall
campaign. With Cedillo's help, both he and Davis became even more popular among
Latinos, particularly those in the state illegally.

Still, Cedillo, a 49-year-old father of one who was raised in Boyle Heights,
receives a large volume of hate mail from those who disagree with his
immigration stance. Even his staunchest supporters warn Cedillo could losefavor
with Latino voters in his 22nd Senate District if the next bill contains
restrictions he once opposed.

A coalition of community and labor groups that have long supported Cedillo will
hold a news conference at 1 p.m. today at the state building in San Jose, Campos
said. The San Jose Driver's License Action Network wants to send a loud message
to Cedillo and the Legislature: Pass an immigrant driver's license bill without
restrictions.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: DRIVER'S LICENSE LAW

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 25, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CAUGHT BETWEEN CULTURES;
AUTHOR CAPTURES THE ANGST OF IMMIGRANTS' KIDS

BYLINE: SANDIP ROY, Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1053 words


Chronicling the lives of immigrants in "The Interpreter of Maladies" garnered
her a Pulitzer Prize. But Jhumpa Lahiri, 36, born in London and raised in Rhode
Island, has never been an immigrant like the characters of her books, who
journey to America from small towns and big cities in India.

In her latest novel, "The Namesake" (Houghton Mifflin, $24, 291 pp.), Lahiri
looks not just at the lives of immigrants but also their children -- people like
her. Though she was raised in the United States, the connection to her parents'
experiences of immigration is still vivid. "I inherited a sense of exile from my
parents," Lahiri says.

"The Namesake," which has been on the New York Times bestseller list since
September, opens with a Bengali housewife, Ashima Ganguli, pregnant and lonely
in the United States, trying to re-create a favorite Indian snack out of Rice
Krispies and Planters peanuts.

Lahiri didn't have to look far for her model. "My mother was always wandering
around the streets of Harvard in Central Square, pushing me in my stroller, and
every time she would see someone who looked Bengali, there was this instant 'Who
are you, where are you from, let's be friends.' "

Looking back, Lahiri marvels at how her parents built a community from scratch.

Lahiri's parents belong to the urbane Bengali middle class from Calcutta, India.
Her father came to the United States as an academic librarian, her mother a
homemaker. Though they were successful in building a life in the United States,
Lahiri says her parents, like many of their generation, "missed India
tremendously and had a lot of misgivings about their lives in America."

American dream doubts

Lahiri's parents came here for a better opportunity. Though the American dream
brought material success, it also left them "ambivalent and guilt-ridden about
sacrificing the connections to their families in order to have a better life for
themselves and their children," she says.

As the daughter of that generation, Lahiri says she feels the fault line of her
parents' choice running through her being. "It was hard for me to think of
myself as fully American," she says. "I thought it would be very much abetrayal
of my parents and what they believed."

But in "The Namesake," her protagonist Gogol is often exasperated that his
birthdays are really just an excuse for his parents' friends to gather together,
gossip in Bengali and cook tons of Indian food while their bored children watch
TV. Lahiri admits she found these get-togethers "tedious and monotonous and not
what I would choose to do with my weekends, every weekend."

But she realizes that for her parents, it was the one time they could let their
guard down in America. She remembers how in their quiet suburban hometown, all
her friends kept their doors unlocked.

"But my parents were always locking the door, locking the garage, closing the
windows, locking the windows every night," she says. "I think it's just a sense
of not feeling on firm ground."

There were many other ways she knew she didn't fit in. Her given name,
Neelanjana, was dumped because her schoolteacher balked at the long name and she
became known by her nickname Jhumpa. Her classmates would talk about how their
parents met in college or at the high school dance and then ask in bewildered
and horrified tones about her parents' arranged marriage. She remembers feeling
both defensive and protective of her parents and their tradition and also a
little worried that it might happen to her.

Lahiri's parents and their fictional prototypes would have been perfectly at
home in Hayward this October when hundreds of Bengali families gathered to
celebrate their biggest festival, the homecoming of the Goddess Durga. Software
engineers and project managers, dressed in carefully pressed iridescent silk
kurtas and saris, milled around the grounds of Chabot College, dancing before
the image of the goddess while the priest chanted prayers in Sanskrit.

"I was struck by how closely some of the plot points and description matched my
experiences and that of other Bengali second-generation friends," says Anirvan
Chatterjee, the mastermind behind the online search engine BookFinder.com. He
thinks second-generation South Asians can relate readily to Lahiri's depiction
of juggling identities.

"She has a much smaller readership among first-generation immigrants, though she
enjoys a lot of name recognition as a Bengali 'achiever,' post-Pulitzer," he
says.

Chatterjee's friend Amal Mongia, a first-generation Indian immigrant at San
Francisco State University, however faults Lahiri's characters for lacking "any
sense of race, class consciousness." He describes them as "elite, nouveau
middle-class to upper-class" with "no hint of confronting racism."

But for the South Asian community eager for role models in America, Jhumpa
Lahiri's Pulitzer in 2000 is more important than any race-class analysis. While
other Indo-American writers such as Chitra Divakaruni and Bharati Mukherjee have
preceded her, Jhumpa Lahiri is the first bona fide Bengali-American literary
media star. Her wedding in Calcutta to journalist Alberto Vourvoulias-Bush was a
paparazzi feeding frenzy as Indian newspapers vied with one other to print the
menu and the guest list.

Cultural challenges

Lahiri says she still tries to lead an ordinary life, do her own shopping and
not worry about whether "The Namesake" will be as successful as "The Interpreter
of Maladies," which was translated into 29 languages and also won the New Yorker
Debut of the Year award. As a writer she still often hits a wall with her
stories and has to abandon them for a while. And as a person she still feels
"caught between the cracks of two cultures."

On her trips to India, her cousins and their friends look upon her as foreign
and American. Back in the United States, people always ask her, "Are you Indian?
When did you come here?"

But she doesn't worry much about these questions of belonging and not belonging
anymore. Looking at her son, Octavio, she hopes he will not have to decide what
percentage of him is Indo-American from his mother and what percentage is
Guatemalan-Greek from his father. "I hope he will just understand it's neither a
good thing nor a bad thing to be a little mixed up," Lahiri says.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jhumpa Lahiri
Personal: Age 36. Lives in Brooklyn, N.Y., with her husband, Alberto
Vourvoulias-Bush,
and son, Octavio.
Education: Bachelor's degree, English literature, Barnard College; master's,
English, creative writing and comparative studies, Boston University; doctorate,
Renaissance studies, Boston University
Awards: Pulitzer Prize (2000), PEN: Hemingway Award, American Academy of Arts &
Letters Addison M. Metcalf Award, the New Yorker Debut of the Year, Guggenheim
Fellowship

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: GINO DOMENICO -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
As the daughter of parents who reluctantly left India for economic betterment,
Jhumpa Lahiri feels the fault line of her parents' choice running through her
being. "It was hard for me to think of myself as fully American," she says. "I
thought it would be very much a betrayal of my parents and what they believed."
PHOTO: GINO DOMENICO -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Pulitzer Prize winner Jhumpa Lahiri, at left, has written a new bestseller.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 26, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOR ADOPTEES, QUICK CITIZENSHIP PROOF;
NEW RULE WILL CUT WAIT FROM MONTHS TO 45 DAYS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 570 words


American parents who adopt children overseas no longer have to wait up to 18
months to get citizenship papers for their children, under a new rule announced
Tuesday by federal immigration officials.

Beginning in January, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will
automatically issue citizenship papers to certain adopted foreign children
within 45 days of their arrival in the United States.

It's an important change for parents, who sometimes put off submitting
citizenship applications for their children because of bureaucratic red tape.
Proof of citizenship is required by schools and government agencies that provide
public benefits, as well as to obtain passports.

"If they're streamlining the process, that would be great," Sparky Harlan, a San
Jose parent who adopted a son from Guatemala eight years ago, said Tuesday. "A
lot of people like myself have not gotten around to getting these documents
because the process was very cumbersome."

Harlan, executive director of San Jose's Bill Wilson Center, an non-profit for
runaway and homeless youth, said the rule change may finally give her the
incentive to get citizenship papers for her son, in preparation for the day the
family travels abroad.

Although the Child Citizenship Act of 2000 granted citizenship to foreign
children at the time of their adoption, parents like Harlan still had to go
through the motions of filing complicated paperwork to get an actualgovernment
document that says their children are naturalized citizens.

"This program will help parents to more rapidly realize the privileges of
American citizenship for their children," CIS director Eduardo Aguirre said in a
press release. "It accelerates reassurance of their child's citizenship status."

Nationally, about 20,000 foreign children are adopted by American parents each
year, according to the National Council for Adoption. In August, the U.S. Census
Bureau released a report that showed that more than one in 10 of the nation's
adopted children were born abroad.

"It's a significant improvement for parents who adopt internationally, and we're
pleased with the continuing work by the CIS to provide better service in the
process of adoption," said Thomas Atwood, executive director of the National
Council for Adoption, an education and advocacy group based in Washington, D.C.

Under the current process, adopted children are issued a green card while their
parents apply for their children's naturalization.

The changes announced Tuesday mean that more than two-thirds of all overseas
adoptions, whose adoption paperwork is completed abroad, will automatically
receive the citizenship papers for their children in 45 days, without submitting
applications.

Parents who complete the adoption process in the United States, or those who
adopted years ago but have not yet applied for their children's citizenship,
must still submit paperwork, but the process is expected to take no more than 45
days.

Linda Jue, a San Francisco mother who recently adopted a second child from
China, said she now hopes to complete the citizenship paperwork for both of her
adopted children. Her oldest daughter, who is 3, does not have citizenship
papers yet.

"It would be even better if we can avoid the whole paperwork altogether," said
Jue, a senior director at the Independent Press Association in San Francisco.
"But now I can do their papers all at once."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 2, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. NO LONGER REGISTERING CITIZENS FROM SUSPECT LANDS

BYLINE: MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 794 words


The Department of Homeland Security announced Monday that it will no longer
require tens of thousands of male citizens of 25 mostly Muslim countries to
re-register at immigration offices -- ending, for now, a controversial national
security program that singled out immigrants based on their country of origin.

Men and boys from countries deemed to have terrorist ties were previously forced
to register 30 or 40 days after they first entered the United States as well as
on the one-year anniversary of their arrival. Beginning today, they no longer
have to do either.

The announcement comes a month before the government begins a new monitoring
program of visa holders, which will collect fingerprints and digital photos at
ports of entry. Critics and immigrant advocates call this a better way to keep
track of immigrants.

The immigration program was adopted after the Sept. 11 attacks, and it led to
widespread protests and upheaval in many immigrant communities after thousands
were arrested and deported under its rules. The countries that were part of the
program were those believed by the U.S. government to sponsor terrorism or those
in which terrorist groups exist.

Some past registrants expressed relief Monday at the end of the
re-registrations, which they said unduly impinged on their ability to work and
live in the United States.

"I'm really happy that this is over," said Shabbir Butt, 31, a Santa Clara
resident originally from Pakistan who is here on an H-1B visa. A hardware
engineer, Butt said the program awkwardly forced him to leave work to go
register.

Homeland Security officials suggested that future registrations would no longer
be defined by broad categories such as nationality, which critics contended
amounted to racial and religious profiling of Middle Eastern and Muslim men.

"Really what's going to happen is a registration program based on the individual
rather than a category of individuals," said Bill Strassberger, a department
spokesman.

Critics contended that few who registered last year understood how and when to
re-register this year, setting themselves up for the mass deportations that
became synonymous with last year's registration.

"It was total entrapment," said Samina Faheem Sundas, a Palo Alto resident who
operates a Fremont-based hotline about registration. Told of the news Monday,
Sundas said: "Wonderful. It restores some hope and faith in our administration."

Billed as a national security measure, the program required some 83,519 men and
boys from those countries to register under threat of deportation last winter
and spring. More than 13,000 of them were placed in deportation proceedings on
alleged immigration violations, which many disputed.

None have been charged with terrorism.

Homeland Security is starting the US-VISIT program Jan. 5, which will first be
applied to all those who arrive by plane or sea. By the end of 2004, it will
apply to those who arrive at the 50 busiest ports of entry by land.

Both critics and supporters of registration said US-VISIT was a smarter, more
effective way to monitor immigrants because it eliminates the profiling inherent
in the program.

"I have no problem with that," said Sundas, the Palo Alto advocate. "It's fair."

Registration and re-registration was a good first step to monitoring immigrants,
said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, a Washington, D.C.-based think tank.

"The immigration law needs to be applied comprehensively to everybody for it to
work at all," he said. "Any border that a Mexican busboy can cross, an Al-Qaida
terrorist can cross."

Still, some immigrant advocates cautioned that even though re-registrations were
no longer needed, the registration program and its more thorough interviews will
still continue in some form.

Strassberger, the Department of Homeland Security spokesman, said certain groups
of people may still be called into immigration offices to register in the
future.

Past registrants will have to register at ports of entry when they enter the
country again. So will any new non-green-card-holding migrants from Iraq, Iran,
Egypt, Sudan and Syria.

Registrants are allowed to leave the country only through specific ports, which
in the Bay Area is only San Francisco International Airport, where they will
have to register again. Strassberger said by the end of 2004, registrants will
be allowed to leave from more ports.

Although he has been uncomfortable with the registrations, Butt is also
philosophical about the need for tighter security.

"This is an embarrassment for me sometimes. When I realize it's for security,
that makes it OK," Butt said. "Ultimately, it's for our security as well. We're
in the U.S."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 5, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A BAD IDEA IS DEPORTED;
DEPARTMENT WISES UP ON REGISTRATION POLICY

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 454 words


We won't be rounding up the usual suspects anymore now that the Department of
Homeland Security has come to its senses, knock on wood.

The homies in charge of sniffing out terrorists after Sept. 11 will no longer
require thousands of men from 25 Muslim nations to register at immigration
offices. Seeing as how the registration checks haven't snagged a single
terrorist, the decision was inevitable.

"I'm really happy that this is over," Shabbir Butt, a Pakistani hardware
engineer in Silicon Valley, told the Mercury News.

His experience was similar to the vast majority of about 85,000 men and boys who
had been subject to the forced registration policy after the terrorist attacks
in 2001. They showed up at immigration offices, lost a day of work or school,
and suffered the humiliation and fear of a lifetime.

About 13,000 of them were detained on alleged immigration violations that used
to be handled by magistrates or judges, not by the Keystone Cops.

Just ask Ahmad and Hassan Amin. Ahmad was a senior in high school, a tight end
on the football team, and Hassan attended a junior college when they registered
as required. Everything about them was legit, except for a mixup in their
application for permanent residency, which in this xenophobic climate was enough
for a local bureaucrat to order them deported.

Had it not been for local publicity about their case, and cooler heads at
Homeland Security headquarters in Washington, the Amin brothers might be back in
Pakistan today. Instead, they have dates for administrative hearings next year,
and they won't have to wear handcuffs.

Relax. Think before acting. Read the Constitution. The homeland security
federales in the Los Angeles area could have used a thoughtful timeout last year
when they jailed hundreds of Arab and Middle Eastern men without reasonable
cause. The officials simply didn't have enough personnel to process the rush of
immigrants meeting the reporting deadline, so in the slammer they went.

Good riddance to the forced registrations. Based on little more than national
origin or religion, they were invitations to ethnic profiling and overzealous
enforcement. They fueled a brand of hysteria not seen in this country since the
roundup of Japanese-Americans during World War II.

Homeland Security will try a new system of taking fingerprints and digital
photos of visa holders at ports of entry, but not of immigrants who are
permanent residents. The switch is a smart move because it should free up more
agents to check individuals rather than wast time with costly cattle calls.

The scrapped registration program is proof that terrorists can't be caught on
these shores with clunky, bureaucratic dragnets.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
Ahmad Amin at football practice;
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
Hassan Amin with his mother, Tahira Manzur.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 9, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LADY OF HOPE AND DREAMS;
VIRGIN OF GUADALUPE TRAVELS WITH MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 665 words


In front of a packed church in East San Jose, the Catholic priest pointed to the
huge painting of the Virgin of Guadalupe asking: "Who is that woman wrapped in
the sun, with the moon at her feet?"

For tens of thousand of Latinos in America and elsewhere, she is the protector
of immigrants, queen of the downtrodden, a champion of cultures.

On Friday, millions of Catholics will celebrate the anniversary of a miracle, or
all-important myth to miserable, secular believers like me. On Dec. 12, 1531,
the Virgin Mary appeared as an Indian to an Aztec peasant named Juan Diego just
outside Mexico City. To others, she was really the Aztec goddess Tonantzin
dressed up as the mother of Jesus. But most important, she symbolizes an entire
nation, Mexico, and the hope that can grow from worlds in collision.

As immigration from Mexico expands, as Mexicans take their strong backs,
calloused hands and spicy food to the South Bronx of New York City, Lexington,
Nebraska and Clinton, North Carolina, they are also bringing La Virgen de
Guadalupe. Catholic churches that never knew her now have Guadalupe altars next
to the Polish, Portuguese and French Madonnas.

So, given this nation's ongoing debate over immigration, it's worth asking: Just
what does this Aztec Madonna tell us about the growing Mexican and Latino
populations?

For a sampling of answers, I went to a vespers ceremony at Our Lady of Guadalupe
Church in East San Jose that kicked off a week of Guadalupe activities. It was a
history lesson on display. Hundreds of pilgrims arrived from local parishes
singing traditional songs in Spanish, followed by girls dressed as Aztec maidens
who brought incense to the altar, and then by a fiery homily delivered by a
priest who likened the miracle of 1531 to the grape boycotts led by Cesar Chavez
almost five centuries later and 500 miles north.

Some of the first to arrive were members of the Guadalupana Society, an
international association with a conservative interpretation. Most of them were
older women with red or white hair, wearing bright red blazers.

"We concern ourselves with the miracles she's done," said Oralia Berlanga, a
Mexican-American transplanted from south Texas. "She helped the poor of Mexico,
our ancestors the Aztecs and the Maya when they were lost, when their gods had
been destroyed. They had nothing. Guadalupe gave them hope, fed them and clothed
them."

The Guadalupanas' missions are charity and faith -- they feed the poor of the
parish, bring fresh flowers to her altar and take the sacraments to the
home-bound.

A young Mexican immigrant couple, Felipe and Carmen Avila, had arrived at the
church early with their two children to get good seats. If anything typifies the
busy Mexican immigrant's faith in Guadalupe, it is the Avilas' everyday
petitions.

"We ask her for everything, from helping us with our children to whatever
sickness or problem we may have," Carmen said. "She is a profound part of our
daily existence. Not a day goes by that I don't think of her."

Lupita Vital, who does outreach work for the Diocese of San Jose's Hispanic
Ministry, helped lead the ceremony at the church.

"I'm from Mexico and for us she is a permanent presence," Vital said. "For the
Mexican-American, though, she represents hope, hope for recognition and
acceptance in a land where they've felt rejected for a long time."

She could have been talking about me, Chicano offspring of immigrant
great-grandparents, whose generation has turned the Guadalupe story into a
metaphor for yet another cultural blending.

Just as Guadalupe blended the people and faiths of Catholic Spain with ancient
Mexico, she inspires us to see ourselves as a new and bona fide third culture,
part-Mexican, part-American.

But for me, her message is simply the promise of immigration. The belief that
different worlds can join together and create something new -- and that the
poor, uprooted and alienated will find hope and faith in this newexistence.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: There are many depictions of the Virgin of Guadalupe, including a
painting from "The Virgin of Guadalupe Series" (1978) by Yolanda M. Lopez,
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
and a mosaic at St. Lawrence Church in Santa Clara.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 10, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TWO BILLS IN CONGRESS TO GIVE PAIR RESIDENCY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 146 words


Two California lawmakers have introduced bills in Congress to grant permanent
residency to a Bell Gardens couple who came to the United States illegally more
than a decade ago.

Earlier this year, an immigration appeals board ordered Londy and Benjamin
Cabrera, both 35, to leave the United States by Dec. 19 -- Cabrera to his native
Mexico and his wife to Guatemala.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, D-Los Angeles, introduced
similar bills to grant the Cabreras permanent residency.

The Cabreras met in the United States, paid taxes and saved enough to buy a
home. Three of their parents live in the United States, and they have two young
U.S.-born daughters.

The Cabreras had been hoping the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals would grant
them an 11th-hour reprieve of the order to leave. However, there has been no
word from the court.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 19, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EVERYDAY PEOPLE WHO TRIED TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE THIS YEAR

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 704 words


I like to end each year on a hopeful note. This column updates readers on some
of the everyday people who appeared in this space in 2003, who got caught up in
the events of the year, who gave voice to the voiceless andtried to make a
difference.

(hbox)
Soledad, the illegal Mexican immigrant who drove me around town, still works two
jobs, still lives in two rooms with her two children, and still doesn't have a
driver's license.

She almost got the chance to apply for one but Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger put an
end to that for now.

"I never had any real hope for the licenses," Soledad said the other day. "For a
while there was this light that it might come true, but we all knew that it
would be impossible in the end, and it was."

She almost joined last week's economic boycott by undocumented immigrants, but
decided it was too risky. Not that the fast-food chains she flips burgers for
would ever knowingly employ illegal immigrants or intentionally pay them poverty
wages, but she would have been tossed out faster than a burned french fry if she
hadn't shown up.

"I didn't strike, but we didn't do any shopping or banking that day," she said.
"There's a lot of money between us and the other side of the economy. I think we
succeeded in sending a message that our work is valuable."

On the downside, the divorced, single mother dropped out of adult English
classes to spend more time with her children.

"My life is my two kids and my two jobs," she said. "Their future is here."

(hbox)
Charley Trujillo, the Vietnam veteran who returned home with one eye and an itch
to write, will take his television documentary, "Soldados: Chicanos in Vietnam,"
on the road. He hopes to screen it in small Mexican-American towns that sent
lots of native sons to the war.

"These screenings have a way of bringing the community together, of giving a
sort of welcome to the vets, and of reaching the younger generation that doesn't
know a thing about what war is really like."

As excellent as it was, the half-hour film that premiered on PBS stations last
fall barely touched on the heroic, personal and brutal story of a band of
carnales (brothers) from Trujillo's hometown, Corcoran, Calif. He's working on a
one-hour version.

Meanwhile, he has a new film in the works, "Bandidos of the West," about the
true lives of Joaquin Murrietta, Tiburcio Vasquez and other outlaws who rebelled
against American rule after the Mexican War.

(hbox)
Sandra Yanez, the petite and shy teenager who crusaded against high-school
exit-exams, will graduate with her class next summer from Oakland Technical High
School.

Unlike many students who had flunked the ill-conceived test, Sandra would not
suffer in silent humiliation.

She spoke out, put herself in front of a steam-roller driven by testocrats who
ignore the real problems that plague poor, minority schools.

Without making excuses for herself, Sandra eloquently explained the failures of
the system and described how the do-or-die test leaves so many youngsters
feeling defeated and worthless.

Ultimately, the steamroller pulled back. From either public pressure or a newly
found sense of fairness, California's testocrats shelved the exit-exam, at least
for now. And Sandra is busy applying to colleges.

(hbox)
Emilia Castaneda finds herself still waiting for justice, along with thousands
of American citizens of Mexican descent who were rounded up in the "repatriation
campaign" of the 1930s and dumped in Mexico.

Now 77 and living in Riverside, Calif., she is the lead plaintiff in a
class-action lawsuit seeking reparations and an apology from California and the
county and city of Los Angeles, which carried out the arrests and deportations.

According to the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, government
officials have refused to waive the statute of limitations and allow the lawsuit
to proceed.

In one of the worst and least known chapters in American civil rights history,
more than 1 million Mexicans and Mexican-Americans were deported. Unike
Castaneda, many of the deported U.S. citizens never returned.

May 2004 bring us the resolve to find and bring them back. Now wouldn'tthat be
something? Happy holidays!

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Charley Trujillo in 1968, during basic training at Fort Ord.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 5, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DECISION ON REFUGEES OVERDUE;
U.S. OFFICIALS MUST LOOSEN IMMIGRATION RESTRICTIONS

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 343 words


Last month, the Bush administration ended a chapter in an enduring tragedy of
the war in Southeast Asia. The State Department granted the last remaining group
of Indochinese refugees -- 15,000 Hmong villagers living in Thailand --
permission to immigrate. Many will end up in the Central Valley, one of two
Hmong enclaves in America.

The decision, while compassionate, was long overdue, and marked a turnaround in
administration policy. It would be even better if the decision signaled a
loosening of restrictions that have slowed the admission of refugees to America
to a trickle since Sept.11.

The Hmong lived in isolated mountainous regions of Laos. They were recruited as
America's allies during the "secret war" there, in which they rescued U.S.
pilots and harassed North Vietnamese troops using the Ho Chi Minh Trail through
Laos. They became war victims after the United States abandoned Vietnam -- and
them -- in 1975.

Fearing reprisals by the North Vietnamese puppet government in Laos, several
hundred thousand fled to refugee camps in Thailand. Many were admitted to the
United States, France and Australia, but others stayed and continued a guerrilla
war against the Pathet Lao. After the United Nations closed the camps a decade
ago, 15,000 fled to a Buddhist monastery, where they have remained.

The United States had taken the view that the Hmong were free to return home to
Laos, but the Hmong, citing strong evidence of persecution, refused to budge.
The State Department relented after the Thai government threatened to evict
them.

Last year, only 28,400 refugees from all countries reached America -- little
more than a third of the 70,000 that President Bush authorized. That
authorization in itself represented a steep drop from pre-Sept. 11 levels.

The Hmong clearly deserve to be put at the top of this year's list; the United
States remains indebted to them. But hundreds of thousands of other refugees
also pose no security risk to America and languish in camps worldwide. They too
deserve a chance for a new life.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 18, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRESIDENT FOX APPLAUDS U.S. IMMIGRATION PLAN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 69 words

DATELINE: MEXICO


Mexico will work closely with U.S. President George W. Bush and do all it can to
help his proposal to overhaul American immigration policies become a reality,
President Vicente Fox said Saturday in Mexico City.

During his weekly radio address, the president said the Bush plan would help
millions of undocumented Mexicans living and working in the United States
"obtain legal status and proper documentation."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 24, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOMENICO FUTIA, S.J. SHOEMAKER;
ITALY NATIVE OVERCAME POST-W.W. II IMMIGRATION BARRIERS TO JOIN HIS WIFE AND
CHILDREN IN U.S.

BYLINE: BETTY BARNACLE, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 458 words


How Domenico "Mico" Futia got to San Jose from his native Italy half a century
ago is like the happy ending to a sad movie.

Everyone was smiling, according to family lore, when the battle for the skilled
shoemaker to immigrate to the United States finally ended with him arriving in
1954, on the day his wife, Nina, gave birth to their fourth child, Cookie, in
San Jose.

Mr. Futia, a longtime San Jose shoemaker who died at 87 on Sunday from
complications after a stroke, always credited the late Dominic Cirincione Jr.
with bringing him to America, said his son, Rick Futia.

Cirincione was a successful San Jose insurance agent better known for helping
hundreds of immigrants join their families in the United States through his
connections in Washington and Italy as an agent to the consul general in San
Francisco.

Mr. Futia, a native of Italy, was inducted into the Italian army at 19 and
served as a radio and telegraph operator through World War II. He was 21 when he
married the woman who would be his wife for the next 65 years, Antoinette "Nina"
Galluzzo. She was born in Albany, N.Y., but lived in Italy from age 2.

After the war, Mr. Futia's wife returned to America with the expectation that
her husband and three little girls soon would follow. She learned she
waspregnant after arriving in San Jose for a visit with her aunt, Pasqualina
Maisano.

On opposite sides of the world, the Futias were shaken when it became apparent
that U.S. immigration laws and quotas were more stringent after the war.

Cirincione, a family friend, spread the news of the couple's plight on his
Oakland-based Italian radio show and in the Italian press for which he was a
correspondent.

His efforts worked. At 33, Mr. Futia began a new life in San Jose, working as a
shoemaker in other men's shops before opening his own business, Master Cobbler
Shoes, on Blossom Hill Road in 1962.

He retired 20 years later, started growing vegetables in his back yard and
traveled the world with his wife, several times visiting Italy, where they grew
up and -- as a Hollywood film would put it -- fell in love.

Domenico 'Mico' Futia

Born: May 1, 1916, in Siderno, Calabria, Italy

Died: Jan. 18, 2004, in Los Gatos

Survived by: His wife, Nina Futia, of San Jose; children, Silvia Garibaldi, Anna
Gagliardo, Cookie Fernandez, Bobby and Rick Futia, all of San Jose, and Tina
Fiorenza of Sacramento; his sister, Elvira Mileto of Toronto; 12 grandchildren;
and seven great-grandchildren.

Services: Have been held.

Memorial: Donations may be made to the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, Box
016960 (R48), Miami, Fla. 33101-9844, in Mr. Futia's name in honor of his son,
Rick, who has used a wheelchair since his spine was injured in 1982.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Obituary

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Domenico 'Mico' Futia

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 25, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW SECURITY MEASURES GREETED WITH TREPIDATION

BYLINE: MICHAEL MARTINEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 1H

LENGTH: 1251 words


When Aileen Hu arrived in San Francisco to visit friends and family this month,
she knew that going through immigration would be different from past trips.

What she didn't anticipate was the unusually long wait, the lack of information
and what she described as the indignity of being photographed and fingerprinted
before she could enter the United States.

"It made me feel like some kind of criminal," Hu, a citizen of Taiwan, said.

Welcome to airport security 2004, where many foreign nationals must now submit
to mug shots and fingerprinting, where armed air marshals are likely to be on
your next flight and where airline passengers this summer can expect to have
their personal information fed into a computer before they're cleared for
takeoff.

Airport screening is nothing new to frequent fliers -- most routinely remove
their shoes and pull their laptops from computer bags at safety checkpoints --
but the newest security layer might infuriate even the most well-traveled
passengers if it involves more delays and longer lines.

Airport and Transportation Security Administration officials insist that won't
happen, but Hu said she waited more than an hour at immigration after her flight
landed at San Francisco International Airport, presumably because of computer
problems. And her frustration was doubled by the fact that no one explained to
arriving passengers why their thumbprints and photos were being taken.

"I already knew why," she said, "but I asked them anyway. They should have told
us first that it was for security reasons."

The next step

There's more to come. By late summer, passengers departing from U.S. airports
will have to provide their date of birth when they purchase airline tickets, and
that information will be fed into computer databases.

The program -- called CAPPS II, for Computer Assisted Passenger Prescreening
System -- is also intended to reduce the number of fliers who require additional
screening and reduce waiting times in security lines.

Passengers' scores will be coded into one of three colors:

* Green: Just the usual screening procedures are required at
securitycheckpoints.

* Yellow: Additional screening is needed.

* Red: Boarding is denied.

"The outcome is going to be that we dramatically reduce the amount of time
people are inconvenienced because we'll have a higher degree of accuracy in
identifying people," security administration spokesman Mark Hatfield said.

CAPPS II is intended to replace the older system of selecting fliers for
secondary screenings at airports. In addition to date of birth, travelers would
have to provide airlines with their full name, address and phone number (which
already occurs), and that information, plus the person's flight itinerary, would
be sent to commercial databases to verify identification. A score is kicked back
that will determine if a traveler has to go through secondary screening or is
denied boarding.

Once a flier completes his itinerary, the information would be deleted from the
system, the security administration said.

Testing of the new program is expected to begin in the next few months.

Some civil liberties organizations have raised privacy concerns, partly because
no one will know for sure what kind of information is being collected. The
American Civil Liberties Union has also raised concerns that travelers might be
treated unequally based on their race, religion or ethnic origin and that those
who are wrongly targeted would have no way to correct or appeal their score.

But organizations such as the Air Travelers Association and the Air Transport
Association of America, a trade group representing U.S. airlines, support it.

"We have a pre-screening system now that's broken," said David Stempler,
president of the Air Travelers Association, a consumer group. "Everyone,
including the terrorists, knows what red-flags you -- you bought your ticket
with cash, you bought a one-way ticket. All they're trying to do is find a
criteria that's more mysterious to the terrorists."

Doug Wills, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association, said: "Too many
people are selected for secondary screening, when you're pulled aside and asked
to take off your shoes and belt and empty your pockets. That can add 20 minutes
to your processing time. The goal of CAPPS II is to add a higher level of
intelligence to the process and reduce the time people spend in security lines."

The primary concern of the airlines' organization, Wills said, is that fliers'
personal information, such as credit history, not be included. "We think CAPPS
II is a great idea," he said, "but if you want to kill it, one way is to add
this credit history component. I can't figure out how somebody's Amex statement
adds a higher level of protection to the screening process."

But Hatfield said information will be passed from the security administration to
a third-party contractor through a fire wall, and the only information that's
returned is a score that identifies a traveler's identity, which is matched
against "watch" lists. The security administration says it can reduce the number
of fliers who have to submit to secondary screening from 15 percent to 5
percent.

Still, that might not satisfy all passengers if they have to give up personal
information, such as date of birth.

Who will have access?

"There has to be a process to make sure your privacy will not be compromised,"
said Stephanie Valdez, president of the Silicon Valley Business Travel
Association. "You need to understand who's going to be privileged to look at
this information."

The security administration is also considering a plan in which passengers could
volunteer personal information and receive identity, or registered traveler,
cards that would allow them to bypass secondary screening. But Hatfield said
it's not likely to be available until the end of the year.

Coincidentally, the program requiring foreign visitors to submit to
fingerprinting and photographs came after recent cancellations of British
Airways and Air France flights. But while the Travel Industry Association of
America, a trade group that promotes travel, supports it, there is concern that
long waits and a failure to communicate with visitors could affect tourism.

"We don't believe there's been outreach and communication," said Rick Webster,
director of government affairs for the travel association. "We need people to
understand they're not being treated like criminals. It's for the safety of U.S.
citizens and visitors who are here."

Nat Aycox, director of field operations for U.S. Customs and Border Protection
in San Francisco, estimates that only about 25 percent of arriving foreign
nationals will be asked to provide thumbprints and photographs. Citizens of 27
countries -- including Japan, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand and most of
western Europe -- are exempt, provided they're staying in the United States
fewer than 90 days and don't need visas.

Even with all those measures, it's still possible there could be an armed sky
marshal on your next flight. Although several countries have balked at U.S.
orders for marshals on U.S.-bound flights, meetings between Asa Hutchinson,
undersecretary for homeland security, and aviation directors of 15 countries
have taken place recently and will continue, said Suzanne Luber, spokeswoman for
the Department of Homeland Security.

Luber said there are currently "thousands" of armed marshals flying, mostly on
domestic flights.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM MAHONEY -- DALLAS MORNING NEWS
Customs officer Roberto Alvarado watches as Mexican citizen Juan Vicente Velasco
Cedeno is fingerprinted at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 25, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ALLOWED TO SEEK U.S. CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 69 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Thousands of undocumented immigrants, turned away when they applied for green
cards under a 1986 amnesty program, won new rights to apply for U.S. citizenship
under a federal court settlement that ends 17 years of legal battles.

For up to 150,000 immigrants, most living in California, the settlement signed
Friday by U.S. District Judge Lawrence K. Karlton opens a one-year window to
apply for legal status.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 27, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT FIGHTS LIKE AN AMERICAN

BYLINE: L.A. CHUNG column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 657 words


I was all prepared not to give Dale Cuevas the time of day.

Cuevas, 23, found out last month that he, his sisters Donna and Dominique, and
his parents, Delfin and Angelita, have been ordered deported back to the
Philippines. He e-mailed to ask if he could tell me his story.

But these stories abound. Every day in this country, deportation orders come
down -- for permanent residents who have committed a crime, for those who have
overstayed their visas or were ill-advised.

The sheer numbers of deportation cases make the heart become inured to
individuals. Even to me, someone who comes from a family of immigrants. Do I
know people who have been deported? You bet.

But something in Dale's manner spoke to me. "I'm trying to say I'm American."

Maybe not legally. But somewhere else, in the heart.

Cuevas does all the things that middle-class Fremont kids do who are working
their way through college. He lives at home with his parents, studies, goes to
his job as a Sprint cell phone salesman, and focuses on transferring to San Jose
State University. Sister Donna, 24, graduated from California State
University-Hayward, and Dominique, 20, is a nursing student at San Jose State.

Kept in the dark

Right after his December final exams at De Anza College, his mother stunned him
with the truth about his family's immigration status, that they had just
received deportation orders. That despite years of telling him and his sisters
it was only a matter of time before they got green cards, it was in fact,
hopeless.

"I was hysterical. I was yelling and screaming," he told me.

How could it be?

"I have a Social Security number," Cuevas said, remembering that day. "I have
good credit, I have a driver's license, I'm in school. I thought I was like
everyone else."

In almost all ways he is, having come here at age 4. He's more conversant about
how Arnold Schwarzenegger became the governator than he is with Joseph Estrada,
the former action star who became president of the Philippines. He can't speak
Cebuano, the dialect of his native province, but his English vocabulary contains
words a Baby Boomer can't fathom.

His father came to California in 1984, after things turned bleak in the
Philippines with the fallout from the assassination of opposition leader Benigno
Aquino. The family followed in 1985, overstaying their visas.

Struggling at the bottom as a janitor, he saw the years fly by in a blur of
"work, family, school, study and church," the elder Cuevas said with regret.
They did not tell their children their predicament.

"I thought I was protecting them from worry, from other people," Delfin Cuevas,
58, said sadly.

They applied to legalize their status in 1996. Their timing couldn't have been
worse. A new law restricting people in situations like theirs went into effect
just two weeks before. Even now, people who do not come forward like the
Cuevases stand a better chance of staying under a proposal by President Bush,
said Carl Shusterman, their new attorney and a former prosecutor for the
immigration service.

Not without a fight

Dale Cuevas has pushed his parents to leave the shadows and talk about their
situation. To be less passive, he says, less Filipino and more American. Being
American means standing up for what you believe in, he said. "It's the way you
act. It's the risk you take in being in the public eye that makes you American."

Their only hope is if a member of Congress sponsors private legislation for the
family to become permanent residents. Sen. Dianne Feinstein's office is
reviewing the case, said Howard Gantman, her spokesman.

Shusterman gives it a slim-to-nil chance of that happening. I do, too; It'sjust
one of the tough lessons of our current immigration reality. Dale Cuevas is
learning the hard way.

Nonetheless, he says, he's going to give it his all and go down fighting.

And there's something so American about that, isn't there?

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 28, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ACLU GOES TO U.N. WITH IMMIGRANTS' COMPLAINTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The American Civil Liberties Union filed a complaint with the United Nations on
Tuesday, alleging that many immigrants imprisoned and deported during the probe
into the Sept. 11 terror attacks were denied fundamental rights under
international law.

In the complaint, filed on behalf of 13 people arrested under federal authority
shortly after the attacks, the ACLU asked the U.N. to declare the treatment of
the immigrants to be "arbitrary" and the U.S. policies to be a violation of
international law.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: In Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 3, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE TO GET LESS FEDERAL MONEY;
BUDGET A LETDOWN FOR NEW GOVERNOR

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1018 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In his first major test as the "Collectinator," California Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger didn't do any better in wringing federal money from his fellow
Republicans in the White House than did his predecessor, Democrat Gray Davis.

In fact, California is slated to get slightly fewer federal dollars in the Bush
administration's proposed 2005 budget released Monday than it will in the
current fiscal year -- one of only nine states to see a decrease.

As members of Congress and their staffs pored over Bush's $2.4 trillion budget
proposal, the initial reaction was that it offered mixed benefits to California.
It typically takes weeks for all the details to be analyzed.

Bush has proposed increases in transportation and education funding, although
they fall well below what some California officials had wanted. The state will
probably see more money for local homeland security efforts, to provide
emergency health care to illegal immigrants and to reduce the threat of
wildfires, based on new programs and formulas for distributing the funds.

Plea goes unheard

But Schwarzenegger struck out with the White House on his top budget request:
getting more federal money to pay for housing illegal immigrants in California
prisons. Schwarzenegger wrote to President Bush last month specifically urging
him to include at least $565 million in his budget for a special program to pay
those costs to California and other states.

"California has the largest population of incarcerated, undocumented immigrants
of any state in the nation," Schwarzenegger wrote in a Jan. 9 letter, noting he
believes the costs are a federal responsibility. "Federal reimbursement of
criminal alien incarceration costs . . . would greatly assist California in its
economic recovery."

Bush was unmoved.

As he did last year, the president proposed no money at all for the State
Criminal Alien Assistance Program. Republicans and Democrats in Congress
succeeded in adding $298 million for the program in the current 2004 budget.Now
Schwarzenegger will have to focus his arm-twisting on the Republican-controlled
Congress to do it again.

H.D. Palmer, deputy director of California's Department of Finance, said
Schwarzenegger was "extremely disappointed" that the White House has proposed
eliminating funding for the program. California will spend about $711.2 million
in the current fiscal year to imprison undocumented immigrants who have been
convicted of crimes, and the state will be reimbursed about $66.2 million by the
federal government.

"Under this proposal, that would go down to zero, and that's not acceptable for
the governor," Palmer said.

In the 2005 budget, the Bush administration says the State Criminal Alien
Assistance Program has not demonstrated results and criticized it for often not
sending money into state general funds instead of directly to prisons.

An official with the U.S. Justice Department, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said the administration wanted to focus more on prevention to solve
the problem of incarcerated illegal immigrants. The official cited an increase
in the department's Southwest Border Prosecution Program, which provides money
to local prosecutors in California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas, for the costs
of processing, detaining and prosecuting illegal immigrants and U.S. citizens
involved in "border criminal enterprises."

'Undue hardship'

The program will be increased by $18 million to a total of $48.4 million in
2005. But in his Jan. 9 letter to Bush, Schwarzenegger said that funding the
Southwest border initiative without providing money for the State Criminal Alien
Assistance Program "places an undue hardship on state and local governments."

Schwarzenegger will work with governors from New York, Texas, Florida and
Illinois to press his case with members of Congress when he travels to
Washington later this month, Palmer said. The governor will also continue to
lobby Bush administration officials to give California more flexibility to spend
federal money and ease regulatory guidelines -- moves that would not be
reflected in the amount of funding flowing to the state but would help its
budget situation, Palmer said.

Officials from California and the other states have had trouble for years
getting enough money from Washington for the illegal immigrant program. But one
of the themes of Schwarzenegger's recall campaign was that as a Republican he
would be more successful than Davis with the GOP-controlled White House and
Congress in getting California's fair share.

"When I am through with my term as governor, I will be known not only as the
Terminator but as the Collectinator," Schwarzenegger said during a recall debate
in September.

"Talk is easy," Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, said Monday of the governor's
promise to secure more federal money. "Let's see some action."

Many cutbacks

With the federal government facing a record $521 billion deficit in 2004, the
Bush administration has significantly cut back on all discretionary federal
spending not related to the military or homeland security. Such spending, which
includes many state and local aid programs, will increase by only half of 1
percent in the 2005 budget, said Joshua Bolten, director of the federal Office
of Management and Budget.

The proposed budget increases money to states in some high-priority areas for
the president, such as education, he said. "For items that fall lower on the
priority list or are not showing results, there will be cuts in this budget,"
Bolten said Monday.

According to Bolten's office, funding to state and local governments would
increase by 1.9 percent from 2004 to 2005, and that includes non-discretionary
entitlement program money such as Medicaid.

Among the reasons for the drop in California's funding is a projected $210
million decrease in Medicaid funding based on the state's demographics, said Tim
Ransdell, executive director of the California Institute for FederalPolicy
Research, a non-partisan group that advises the state's congressional
delegation.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: CHARLES DHARAPAK -- ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, shown meeting with President George W. Bush in
October, had sought more federal money to pay for housing illegal immigrants in
California prisons.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 5, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOARDWALK PASSES ALSO GOOD AT BORDER

BYLINE: LEIGH WEIMERS column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 509 words


Ken and Joan Cole didn't expect problems when they took a vacation trip to
Victoria, B.C. How hard could it be to drive across the border into friendly
Canada?

In their case, hard.

It was a busy Friday afternoon, recalls Ken, who directs Santa Cruz's Homeless
Services Center. In a long line of cars, they inched their way to the border.
There, a guard checked the Coles' IDs, and then pointed to their 10-and
6-year-old children in the back seat. "May I see their passports or birth
certificates?" the guard inquired. Oops. "I didn't know they needed any," Ken
confessed. "We didn't bring birth certificates or anything." The guard directed
them to an immigration officer in a nearby building. "Our vacation began to sink
at that point," Ken says. Familiar Canada suddenly seemed like a much more
foreign country, and they were across the line.

In the office, they were met by a stone-faced immigration official. "If our
children's services officers were to take your children into custody, how are
you going to prove they're yours?" he asked the Coles. Pawing frantically
through wallet and purse, the Coles looked for documentation. The children's HMO
cards? No photos; no good.

"But then at the back of my wallet I found the Endless Summer passes to the
Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk that we'd bought for the family," Ken says. "They had
digital photos on them." The official looked them over and, after checking some
data on a computer, relented and finally let the Coles continue on their way.

"It was pretty awful to live through," says Ken, embarrassed, "but it's seeming
more humorous with the passage of time. My wife isn't much for publicity, but
she thought if we shared our experience it might save other travelers some
trouble."

Canada enforces its border policies strictly, and although U.S. passports aren't
required, some form of photo ID is -- even for children, especially if there's
suspicion parental custody issues might be involved in the border crossing. I
hadn't thought of that. The Coles think of it now.

And about that surprise ID: "We're heading back to the boardwalk shortly," Ken
concludes, "to renew our passes."

AROUND AND ABOUT: Talk about a meaningful location for Friday's visit by Yolanda
King, the eldest daughter of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. She will participate in
a 4 to 6 p.m. book-signing at the new main San Jose library named in honor of
her dad.

The California Alliance of African American Educators, meanwhile, has something
special set for Saturday at the San Jose Airport Hyatt: what's billed as the
state's only all African-American science fair. Seventy students will be
competing for Dr. Frank S. Greene Scholars Program awards and shots at
scientific careers.

QUESTION MAN: Speaking of careers, Ron Schwartz wonders if it's true that when
ex-Gov. Gray Davis came here for the Democratic convention "he looked over San
Jose the same way another ex-governor looked over Oakland?" Scary thought, but
all it takes is a moving van. It worked for former Sunnyvale guy Ron Gonzales.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 7, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SLAYINGS PUT SPOTLIGHT ON LIFE IN SHADOWS;
MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS SOUGHT OPPORTUNITIES

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 842 words


Maria Esperanza Hernandez left her factory job in central Mexico nearly 20 years
ago and walked across the border late at night in search of a better life.

She found that life in California, first working at a Taco Bell counter in Santa
Ana, and then in the laundry room of a Fremont nursing home. She religiously
sent a chunk of her meager paychecks to the two daughters she left behind.

Last March, her youngest, Maria del Carmen "Carmelita" Castillo Hernandez, 19,
crossed the border to join her. She hoped to learn English and become a
hairdresser.

Shortly before 3 a.m. Sunday, mother and daughter were bludgeoned to death with
a tree branch on a quiet residential street in Fremont. Hernandez's shift began
at 5 a.m. at the nursing home and she didn't want to be late; her daughter
didn't want her walking to work alone.

Without a green card, the mother, who went by Esperanza, was barred by law from
getting a driver's license. Her live-in boyfriend of about five years, Juan
Carlos Melin, a mechanic, usually gave her a ride. But two of her cousins said
in an interview that he had been drinking Saturday night and didn't think he
should drive.

Like many undocumented immigrants, the Hernandez women lived in the shadows.
Only in the tragedy of their violent deaths did their lives become public.

"We came here to progress and be better," said Filberto "Fily" Cuellar of
Hayward, one of the many relatives who followed the Hernandezes from Mexico to
California. "Why did this happen? Because she didn't have a license."

Fremont police do not consider the boyfriend a suspect. They have no evidence
the crimes were racially motivated, or a sexual assault, or a robbery. They do
have sketchy descriptions of four people who reportedly were at the scene of the
crime.

Neighbors who live near the scene of the crimes at Contra Costa Avenue and
Alameda Drive, called 911 after they heard screams. Later, they told police they
saw a cleanshaven white man in his 20s with short brown hair, about 6 feet tall
and weighing from 180 to 200 pounds, standing over the women for a few seconds
before he fled. He was wearing a denim jacket with tan sleeves, dark gray
acid-wash jeans and white sneakers, a witness said.

Neighbors also told police they saw three people, possibly men, in a
light-colored 1986 or 1989 Honda Accord with pop-up headlights and a
whitelicense plate waiting nearby. It sped off.

Hernandez, 39, never applied for citizenship, relatives said, because she never
gave birth to children in this country and believed it would be impossible to
gain legal status here. She used a fake Social Security card to work.

She met Leoncio Castillo Garcia, who goes by the surname Castillo, at a textile
factory in Colon, Queretaro, Mexico in the early '80s. She made him sandwiches
and asked after his mother. He thought she was beautiful.

They married and had two daughters, Jessica and Maria del Carmen, who went by
Carmen.

When the girls were 2 and 4, the parents left for California. The daughters
stayed behind to be raised by aunts, uncles and grandparents. The parents made
much more working at Taco Bell than the $20 or $40 a week they made in Mexico.
They called home and wired money.

Hernandez and Castillo separated in the mid-1990s. He moved to Miami, she came
to Newark. Castillo flew in from Florida for the funeral.

"She said, 'Your music is my music,' " he said, recalling how he first fell in
love. "She said, 'I like your friend.' And I said, 'I like you.' It's a
beautiful story."

Hernandez brought her relatives to the U.S., but it took years. Carmen arrived
last year. Jessica, 22, chose to stay in Mexico, where she is in school.

Hernandez, her daughter and her boyfriend lived with six relatives in a neat,
one-story home on a quiet cul-de-sac. The night that Hernandez's boyfriend
couldn't give her a ride, she and her daughter headed out about 2:30 a.m. It is
a four mile walk to the nursing home and Hernandez liked to start her 5 a.m.
shift early.

En route, the women apparently changed their minds about walking and Carmen
called a cousin, Helidee Cuellar of Hayward, to ask for a lift. Cuellar said she
would. Then the conversation stopped abruptly, and Cuellar heard the women
scream.

All 17 detectives in the Fremont Police Department are working the city's first
double-homicide since 1986. They are urging anyone with information to step
forward. The Bay Area's fourth largest city averages only two or three homicides
a year.

Meanwhile, the family is in pain. Several relatives have hardly slept; Juan
Carlos Melin, the boyfriend, can barely speak about the tragedy. Many in the
family are feeling anger over their status in the United States.

Yet, relatives in the extended Hernandez clan still say it's better here than in
Mexico -- even if home is always in their hearts.

"It's a better life and it's a better opportunity," said Hernandez's nephew
Gerardo Hernandez. "We can work, go to school, and most important, make money to
send back to Mexico."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Anyone with information is asked to call Fremont police at (510) 790-6800
or the silent witness hotline at (510) 494-4856. The family has set up an
account, No. 0944077404 in the names of the two women at Washington Mutual bank.
Checks can be mailed to the branch at 38980 Fremont Blvd., Fremont, Calif.
94536.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: PAUL SAKUMA -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Two women comfort each other outside the Newark home of Maria Esperanza
Hernandez, 39, and her 19-year-old daughter.
PHOTO: Maria Esperanza Hernandez, mother
PHOTO: Maria Castillo Hernandez, daughter

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 10, 2004 Tuesday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

MAN PLEADS GUILTY TO ANTHRAX-MAIL THREAT

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: SAN MATEO


A San Mateo man pleaded guilty Monday to mailing an anthrax threat to the
federal immigration service in San Francisco.

Mohammed Lateef, 32, faces a potential sentence of life in prison and a $250,000
fine when he appears before U.S. District Chief Judge Marilyn Hall Patel in San
Francisco on May 17.

Lateef was indicted in August on one count of threatening to use a biological
agent as a weapon.

With his plea, Lateef admitted that in April 2002, he mailed the letter to the
Bureau of Customs and Immigration Enforcement, according to a news release by
the U.S. Attorney's Office.

When the letter arrived April 11, 2002, the immigration service evacuated its
mailroom and isolated employees who had come into contact with the letter, which
contained white powder. Testing determined that the powder was not anthrax.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Peninsula Briefing
News From Your Community

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 11, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SAN MATEO MAN ADMITS TO MAILING ANTHRAX THREAT

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A San Mateo man has pleaded guilty to mailing an anthrax threat to the federal
immigration service in San Francisco.

Mohammed Lateef, 32, faces a potential sentence of life in prison and a $250,000
fine when he appears before U.S. District Chief Judge Marilyn Hall Patel in San
Francisco on May 17.

Lateef was indicted last August on one count of threatening to use a biological
agent as a weapon.

With his plea Monday, Lateef admitted that in April 2002, he mailed the letter
to the Bureau of Customs and Immigration Enforcement, according to a press
release by the U.S. Attorney's Office.

The letter, laced with misspellings, contained white powder and stated:
"Antrax"; "Hate Isreal and destroy America;" and "Al-Qaida," the release stated.

When the letter arrived on April 11, 2002, the immigration service evacuated its
mailroom and isolated employees who had come into contact with the letter.
Testing determined that the white powder was not anthrax.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area Briefing
New From Around The Region

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 12, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAROLED KILLER WANTS TO STAY WITH SON IN U.S.

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 149 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A Mexican woman who served 16 years in prison for killing her husband's mistress
is appealing to immigration officials to let her stay with her American-born son
in the United States.

Rosario Munoz was paroled in December. Before she was released, immigration
officials sought to deport her, arguing she was a convicted felon and an illegal
immigrant.

Munoz, who pleaded guilty to second-degree murder, said the killing was an
accident. She said she was shooting at her husband when she hit Julia De La Cruz
by mistake in 1987.

Her attorney filed a motion Wednesday asking that Munoz be allowed to live in
the United States with her 21-year-old son.

Her attorney, Carlos Vellanoweth, also is seeking to have her guilty plea
withdrawn or for Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to issue a pardon.

"We have psychiatric reports to show Rosario was a battered spouse," Vellanoweth
said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

              February 16, 2004 Monday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

RALLY FOR FILIPINO FAMILY;
200 GATHER TO SUPPORT FREMONT RESIDENTS FACING DEPORTATION TUESDAY

BYLINE: CECILIA KANG, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 557 words


With time running out for the Cuevas family, Filipino and immigration activists
gathered Sunday in Union City to rally support for the Fremont residents who
face deportation Tuesday.

Notified two months ago that they must "voluntarily depart" the country they've
called home for the past 19 years, the family of five, along with their
supporters, asked those at the community forum to contact U.S. Sen. Dianne
Feinstein for assistance.

They are pinning their hopes on Feinstein sponsoring legislation to grant the
family permanent residency. Feinstein, who has previously assisted a family in a
similar circumstance, has been reviewing the case since last month.

But even as the deadline approaches, Dale Cuevas, 23, says he is optimistic and
will continue to fight for his family's case even if their request is rejected.

"We're trying to show -- by speaking and by screaming -- that laws have been
changed in the past, and they can be in our case," said the San Jose State
University student, who pushed his family's case to the attention of media and
political leaders. "This is just showing how American we are. We are using the
system and exercising our right to be vocal."

Friday, the San Francisco Immigrant Rights Commission voted unanimously to
approve a resolution sponsored by Commissioner Jay Gonzalez to urge Feinstein to
assist four members of the Cuevas family. And the family is encouraged by
Sunday's event, where about 200 activists and friends gathered at the
standing-room-only forum at Paddy's Cafe to show their support.

The Cuevas family came to the Bay Area in 1985 on temporary tourist visas, but
they never returned to the Philippines. Complicating their plea to stay, Dale
Cuevas had a misdemeanor conviction in 2001 in San Mateo. He was not mentioned
in the San Francisco resolution because of the misdemeanor. But Gonzalez told
him he plans to introduce a separate resolution on his behalf.

"Just because you don't hold the right papers doesn't mean you aren't an
American," said Robyn Rodriguez, a member of Critical Filipina and Filipino
Studies Collective, organizers of Sunday's event. "When we are united like this
as a community, we can fight injustice together."

The Cuevas family's case is not unique, she said. Hundreds of Filipino and other
immigrants have been deported since the Sept. 11 attacks. Many of them were
forced to leave because they failed to notify the U.S. attorney general in
writing of an address change within 10 days, Rodriguez said.

Delfin Cuevas, the 58-year-old head of the family, said he tried to seek
political asylum in 1996 but was rejected twice by immigration officials. In
December, he took his case to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San
Francisco, but was refused.

But the Cuevas children are fighting to stay in the only country they really
know. Donna, 24, Dale, and Dominique, 20, were younger than 5 when they left the
Philippines. They have little memory of their parents' native Mindanao, a
southern province, and they can't speak Cebuano, the dialect of the region.

They weren't aware of their immigration status until their parents told them
about the deportation letter two months ago.

"It's hard to grasp," Dale Cuevas said. "But with education and support, I've
had the ability and strength to fight like an American."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ALSO RAN: page 1B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 18, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE SEES MIGRATION DROP OFF IN LAST DECADE

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff and wire reports

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


California's share of the nation's new arrivals dropped sharply from 1990 to
2000, snapping a longstanding trend as immigrants looked elsewhere in the
country for jobs and housing, University of Southern California researchers said
Tuesday.

California, which attracted 38 percent of new immigrants in the 1990 census, saw
that proportion tumble to about 25 percent in the 2000 population index. In that
time, 34 states lured a larger share of immigrants, with Texas, Georgia and
North Carolina recording the largest gains, researchers said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 19, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAMILY MAY BE DEPORTED FORCIBLY;
ATTORNEY: ORDER WAS MISUNDERSTOOD

BYLINE: THE MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 290 words


A Fremont family facing deportation to the Philippines learned this week that it
is probably much closer to being forced out of the country than originally
thought.

Dale Cuevas, who has sought media attention to highlight his family's plight as
illegal immigrants trying to legalize their status, had been stating for weeks
that the family had agreed to a voluntary deportation scheduled for Tuesday of
this week.

But as the deadline came and went, it became apparent that the Cuevas family had
misunderstood the deportation order, according to an immigration attorney
involved in the case.

Carl Shusterman, the Los Angeles-based attorney, said the Cuevases were in fact
served with a mandatory deportation order in December, and that they were not
eligible for voluntary deportation.

Voluntary deportation allows certain illegal immigrants to leave the country at
their own expense and on a fairly flexible time frame. But the more formal order
of removal, which leads to forced deportation, happens on a more stringent
schedule dictated by immigration officials.

A final deportation date has not been set, Shusterman said.

Cuevas did not return a phone call seeking comment Wednesday.

Cuevas, his two siblings and their parents -- who have lived in the United
States more than 19 years -- are scheduled to be deported because they
overstayed their tourist visas.

Family members have made the case public, hoping not only for public support,
but for a federal legislator who would write a special bill allowing the family
to legally remain in the United States.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein has been reviewing the family's case for more than a month
and has not drafted a special bill, spokesman Howard Gantman said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 23, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR BACKS IDEA TO LET IMMIGRANTS BE PRESIDENT;
BUT SCHWARZENEGGER SAYS HE'S TOO BUSY TO PONDER RUN

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 814 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


While asserting he was too focused on his current job to think about running for
the White House, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said Sunday he supported a proposed
constitutional amendment to allow foreign-born citizens like himself to serve as
president.

"I think that there's so many people here in this country that are now from
overseas, that are immigrants, that are doing such a terrific job with their
work, bringing businesses here and all this, that there's no reason why not,"
Schwarzenegger said. The governor was asked on NBC's "Meet the Press" if a
person who has been a U.S. citizen for at least 20 years should be eligible for
the presidency -- a job now open only to people born in the United States.

"There's many, many, many people here that have worked within the government and
have done an extraordinary job and not have been born in America," he said.

Schwarzenegger prefaced his remarks by saying he had "no idea" if he would run
if the amendment, proposed by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, were successful, and
used the question to make one of several pitches for his economic recovery bond
measures.

"California is a big state and a very complicated state," he told "Meet the
Press" host Tim Russert during the 30-minute interview. "Right now, I
concentrate just on that, to make sure that Propositions 57 and 58 pass, solve
the problems as I've promised to resolve -- our fiscal house, get that in order,
get all the jobs back, make sure that we protect our environment."

His response underscored the reality hanging over Schwarzenegger's trip to
Washington and New York this week: Unless he can solve California's fiscal
crisis, his political future in Sacramento, let alone Washington, could be in
jeopardy. With that in mind, Schwarzenegger used the nationally televised forum
Sunday to appeal directly to California voters watching back home, noting five
times during the interview the importance of passing on March 2 the two ballot
measures that are the backbone of his economic recovery plan.

Schwarzenegger arrived in Washington on Saturday night for the annual winter
meeting of the National Governors Association. It is an opportunity to network
with his fellow governors as well as lobby the Bush administration and Congress
for more federal money to ease California's budget crisis. On Tuesday, he will
head to New York for a $500,000 fundraiser to help get Propositions 57 and 58
passed by California voters.

Asked if it would be more appropriate to be in California trying to persuade
voters to pass the two ballot measures, Schwarzenegger said it was important for
him to develop relationships with other governors and lobby officials in person
for more federal aid.

"I think the governor has to be here, especially the first time," Schwarzenegger
told reporters after emerging from a governors' luncheon with Homeland Security
Secretary Tom Ridge. "You don't want to just send your aides."

There are governors attending the Washington meeting. There are famous governors
attending the meeting. And then there is Schwarzenegger, who was trailed through
the meetings by an entourage that included aides, security officers and about a
dozen reporters. But even alone in private sessions with other governors,
Schwarzenegger stood out, said North Dakota Gov. John Hoeven.

"Certainly he generates attention as you'd expect, but doesn't dominate," said
Hoeven, a fellow Republican. "He's really a nice person, gets along with
everybody very well."

Schwarzenegger's agenda in Washington went beyond the four-day governors
meeting. His role as the new Republican leader of the nation's most populous
state allowed him to secure a private meeting with Health and Human Services
Secretary Tommy Thompson on Sunday to discuss ways California could save money
by getting federal waivers for the way Medi-Cal is administered.

"The state of California is being very innovative, which I applaud them on,"
Thompson told reporters at the end of the meeting, as he sat next to
Schwarzenegger. "We're going to work with them."

Schwarzenegger also hoped to lobby President Bush directly for more federal
assistance at a White House dinner for all the governors Sunday night, then at a
working meeting there today. Bush's proposed 2005 budget, released earlier this
month, would slightly reduce the amount of federal money going to California.

Schwarzenegger said Sunday that Bush's ability to win California in
hisre-election bid this November could be tied to how much the president helps
the state.

"This is a very important year, and I think and am absolutely convinced we then
can deliver California for President Bush," Schwarzenegger said on "Meet the
Press." Californians will look not just at Bush's leadership, he said, "they
will look also in some wonderful, you know, selfish way" at "what has he done
for California."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 2004

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MANUEL BALCE CENETA -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and wife Maria Shriver arrive for the National
Governors Association dinner Saturday at the White House.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 27, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAROLED KILLER FIGHTS DEPORTATION TO MEXICO

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 82 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


An immigrant imprisoned 22 years for her role in the fatal beating of a man who
bought her as a sex slave wants a visa to stay in the United States.

Maria Suarez, paroled in December by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and turned over
to immigration authorities, would be in danger if she is deported to Mexico, her
attorney said in a hearing Wednesday.

Attorney Jessica Dominguez said Suarez, 43, was a victim of child and sex
trafficking when she was sold for $200 at the age of 16.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 1, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MOM FORCED TO LEAVE FAMILY;
PIANO TEACHER ENTERED U.S. ON FALSE PAPERS
BAY AREA WOMAN'S DEPORTATION TO RUSSIA

BYLINE: YOMI S. WRONGE, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 600 words


When little Nikita Makarchuk asks for his mother, he won't understand the word
"deportation."

He won't understand that at about 7:15 a.m. Sunday, when his mother, Yana
Slobodova, disappeared behind a security checkpoint at San Francisco
International Airport, dragging two bags packed with her life in America, she
was leaving home for good -- with no right to return.

"It was good he was sleeping," Slobodova, 30, said of her 22-month-old son, as
she prepared to board an 8:20 a.m. flight to New York, then another to Russia to
begin a life without her family.

Slobodova, a Russian Jew and popular Bay Area piano teacher, gave up her fight
for asylum Sunday, despite pleas to U.S. immigration officials from her family,
a Bay Area Jewish group and students at the Community School of Music and Arts
in Mountain View, where she taught for three years.

She was deported after seven years of hearings, denials and appeals to
immigration officials in an attempt to overcome what she calls a mistake she
made when she first entered the United States.

"They are going to send me away from my family because I was stupid eight years
ago," she said at the airport.

In 1996, Slobodova used false paperwork when she arrived in the United States,
but claims she was duped by unscrupulous immigration consultants who promised to
gain her legal status based on her musical talent.

U.S. officials quickly discovered her improper paperwork but allowed her to stay
in the country while she applied for refugee status. Although her parents were
relocated as refugees to the Bay Area, Slobodova has been denied.

The United States deported 148,619 illegal immigrants, and an additional 933,555
left voluntarily in fiscal year 2002, the most recent year for which figures are
available from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service.

Since Slobodova came to the United States, she has built a nice life: She met
her husband, Alexander Makarchuk, a U.S. citizen, and together they had a child.
She started teaching piano lessons at the largest community performing arts
school in the Bay Area. But on Jan. 8, immigration officials denied her request
for permanent residency and jailed her for nearly three weeks until she agreed
to leave the country.

While she packed her belongings at her parents' San Mateo home Saturday,
including the photo albums that include the glimpses of Nikita's first months of
life, she didn't know how to say goodbye to her only child. She told him, "I
will see you soon," not knowing when, or if.

For now, she will live in a St. Petersburg apartment owned by friends of her
parents. But other than knowing the language, nothing will be safe or familiar,
Slobodova said.

With Makarchuk at her side Sunday, Slobodova made the walk toward the airport
security checkpoint. Her father, Boris Slobodova, traveled with her. But
Makarchuk didn't have a boarding pass, so the couple had to say their farewells
at the checkpoint. They hugged and cried for several moments. Makarchuk promised
over and over again to bring her back home, somehow.

"He still hopes," she said with a deep sigh. "It scares me. It hasn't registered
with him what has happened."

The woman and her father made their way to Gate 40, where her Delta flight to
John F. Kennedy International Airport waited. She sat with eyes red from hours
of crying and a blank expression. She looked out the big windows, past the plane
and the airport, at the blue sky and billowing clouds over the wooded hills
surrounding the airport.

"I wish it was foggy," she said. "It wouldn't be so hard to leave."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Mike Cassidy contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (5);
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Yana Slobodova shares some time with her 22-month-old son, Nikita Makarchuk, and
husband, Alexander Makarchuk, in San Mateo last week. Slobodova was deported for
entering the United States illegally eight years ago. She says she was duped by
unscrupulous immigration consultants.
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Alexander Makarchuk hugs his wife one last time as they parted at San Francisco
Airport.
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Yana Slobodova feeds her son, Nikita, at their townhome in San Mateo during
their last week together in the United States. She doesn't know when, or if, she
will see him again.
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Yana Slobodova waits alone at the boarding area at San Francisco International
Airport on Sunday for a flight to New York, then to Russia.
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Alexander Makarchuk leaves San Francisco Airport after saying goodbye to his
wife Sunday. "He still hopes," Yana Slobodova said of Makarchuk. "It scares me.
It hasn't registered with him what has happened."
[Photograph did not run in Morning Final edition]

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 9, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEHYDRATED IMMIGRANTS FOUND IN CAMPER TRUCK

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 49 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Nineteen people suspected of being illegal immigrants were found dehydrated
inside a camper pickup truck on Monday as unseasonable heat gripped the region.

Paramedics took six of the passengers to hospitals. The rest of the group was
taken to Immigration and Customs Enforcement offices.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CALIFORNIA & THE WEST
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 14, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BLENDING ART AND ACTIVISM;
TEATRO VISION PRODUCES PLAY ABOUT MIGRANTS' DEATHS

BYLINE: KAREN D'SOUZA, Mercury News

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 5E

LENGTH: 574 words


On July 2, 1987, 19 Mexican immigrants were found huddled in a boxcar near
Sierra Blanca, Texas. Hunted by the Border Patrol and abandoned by smugglers,
the men had been locked in an airless compartment, left to die in the blistering
heat. All but one of them did.

While far from the only tragedy of its kind, the case moved Silvia Gonzalez S.
first to tears, and then beyond them, to art.

"I was horrified by what I was saw on TV and I thought, 'What can I do?' And
then it all came pouring out," says the playwright from Bend, Ore., whose
"Boxcar" is making its world premiere at Teatro Vision in San Jose. "I started
writing out of the pain of that incident."

As she worked on the story, more incidents of migrants dying in transport came
to light and fed her imagination. Rooted in reality but deeply influenced by
magical realism, her play takes us inside one such boxcar to see the human cost
of U.S. immigration policy. We get to know people who usually remain anonymous,
to hear their dreams and learn why they are willing to face death to come to the
United States.

"It's about men," says Teatro Vision artistic director Elisa Marina Alvarado,
"what men will do for their families, the sacrifices they make to be able to be
the providers."

After tinkering with it for years, Gonzalez worked with Alvarado to fine-tune
the text and figure out how best to produce it. They finally hit upon a bold
staging move: Half of the performances will be in Spanish and half in English.
That way many theatergoers will be able to hear the play in their native
language.

"It's been a real hardship for the director and the actors. They are working
double time," Gonzalez says. "But it just has to be that way. This play is for
the people. I want them to know that they have not been forgotten. I want to
respect that community. But I also want to open the play up to others."

Community outreach has been central to Teatro Vision's mission from its start,
in 1984. "Theater is our focus but that is not all we do," Alvarado says. "We
also consider ourselves a member of this community. We want to give this
community a voice, to reach out to people who have lived through whatthis play
dramatizes."

Blending art and activism is nothing new for Alvarado, who spent 20 years as a
social worker before taking the helm at Teatro Vision. She has teamed up with
Siren, a local immigrant advocacy group, to use the production of "Boxcar" as a
forum to communicate with recent immigrants.

"There's such rabid anti-immigrant sentiment out there now because of all the
economic insecurity," says Andrea Villasenor-Perry, the executive director of
Siren, which will supplement the production with presentations and literature.
"This play is a really powerful educational tool to reach out to people."

Although the production may seem complicated, with its bilingual aspects and
outreach components, Gonzalez says her central theme remains quite simple. "For
me, the message of the play is that these guys are humans," she says. "Not
animals."

"Boxcar"
by Silvia Gonzalez S.
Where: Teatro Vision Mexican Heritage Theater, Mexican Heritage Plaza, 1700 Alum
Rock Ave., San Jose

When: 8 p.m. Thursdays-Saturdays, 2 p.m. Sundays (call ahead to find out which
performances are in English and which are in Spanish)

Through: April 4

Tickets: $14-$30 (student and senior discounts available); (408) 272-9926,
www.teatrovision.org

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Alvarado
Artistic director wanted to show the human cost of immigration policy.
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Andres Sinohui, Gualo Aguayo, Mauricio Rivera and Alex Perdomo rehearse a scene
for "Boxcar," which will be performed in both Spanish and English.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 26, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE COLOR OF IDENTITY;
50 YEARS FROM NOW;
WHO SAID ANGLO-PROTESTANTS HAVE THE ONE-AND-ONLY FORMULA FOR THE AMERICAN WAY OF
LIFE?

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 697 words


After reading an article on how Latino immigrants threaten America's identity,
values and way of life, I went looking for one of the culprits.

Miriam Hernandez typed away at San Jose State University's Mexican American
Studies office. The college senior and future schoolteacher wore a black T-shirt
that said, "Dangerous -- Highly Educated Chicano." She was planning a separate
Latino graduation ceremony.

A likely suspect, I thought.

"I identify as a Mexican," she said. "Even though I've lived here most of my
life, and I've become an American citizen and vote, I consider myself a Mexican.
That's my culture."

But how would she identify herself 50 years from now? The Census Bureau
predicted the other day that Latinos will number over 100 million in 2050 and
minorities will outnumber whites for the first time. That worries a lot of
Americans.

"I will always identify myself as Mexican," Hernandez said.

I showed her the current Foreign Policy magazine in which Harvard professor
Samuel Huntington writes that Latinos, specifically Mexican-Americans, are not
assimilating and are rejecting the "Anglo-Protestant" values that built America.
I also handed her a copy of "Mexifornia," a new book by Fresno State professor
Victor Davis Hanson, who argues that identity politics, mass immigration and a
loss of confidence in the melting pot have changed California for the worse.

The average voter may never read these guys, but the two conservative professors
have done us all a great favor by clearing the air in the debate over
immigration. It used to be just a pocketbook issue -- immigrants take jobs from
Americans, depress wages, soak up public assistance and overwhelm our fiscally
struggling schools.

The real argument, simmering below the surface, was based on culture --
Mexican-Americans and other Latinos are dividing the nation into two Americas,
with two cultures and two languages. Latino America would be less democratic,
contemptuous of white American culture and the Protestant work ethic, hostile
toward individual rights, poor and ignorant and proud of it.

Of course, anybody who said such things was quickly branded a racist by Latino
and minority leaders. For several reasons, including a bolder breed of
arch-conservatives in a new post 9/11 climate, the gloves have come off in the
debate over immigration and American identity. That's fine with me, because it
really was about whose heritage counts and whose doesn't all along.

I have a few problems with the cultural argument against Latinos and
immigration.

First, you'd think America had the only melting pot. Mexico's melting pot, with
Europeans, Indians and Africans in the mix, is much older and more racially
advanced than America's. We Mexicans -- yes, like Miriam Hernandez I can be
Mexican, American and Chicano without confusing myself -- know the real deal.
We're as open to interracial marriage, learning English and U.S. citizenship as
any previous group.

Who said Anglo-Protestants have the one-and-only formula for the American way of
life? Consider the unfounded fear that Mexicans are too family or group-centered
to exercise fairness and democracy. I could make the argument that these
qualities allow us to vote less selfishly and more in the interests of our local
community, state and nation. American conservatives who lament the decline of
family values should remember that Mexicans have this virtue in spades.

The greatest weakness of the Anglo-Protestant argument is that it predicts
doomsday just because Mexican nationals boo the U.S. soccer team at games in Los
Angeles or because Jose has replaced Michael as the most common name for newborn
boys in California.

That's why I looked up Miriam Hernandez. She and other young Latinos would still
be around in 50 years, when Latinos are poised to take over.

You never know, I told her, they could easily graduate from Latino commencements
to hoarding weapons of mass destruction in the Arizona desert, adopting
Spanish-only laws, and steering white home buyers away from Latino
neighborhoods.

She laughed.

"I don't think you're from Mars," Hernandez said, "but you sure sound funny."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 27, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LEADS SIERRA CLUB ASTRAY;
STICK TO CORE ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 255 words


For a group that's known for trying to save the planet, the Sierra Club is
spending an awful lot of time trying to save itself.

The country's largest environmental group will be voting in April on candidates
for its national board, in a campaign that's evolved into a heated discussion on
immigration and how it relates to the core mission of the 112-year-old
organization.

The controversy focuses on a slate of board candidates, including former
Colorado Gov. Richard Lamm, who want to protect the environment by curbing
immigration. That conflicts with the club's 1996 decision to remain neutral on
immigration. And some Sierra Club leaders believe Lamm and his counterparts
simply want to use the club's resources to promote an anti-immigration agenda.

Does immigration strain the environment?

It's no secret that Americans consume more than anyone else: We make up 6
percent of the global population but consume 30 percent of the resources,
according to World Wildlife Fund. We're already facing shortages of all types in
this country, from water to affordable housing to health care. It's easy to
imagine that if the United States continues to add 1.2 million immigrants every
year, our ecological system will be strained.

But focusing on immigration takes the group down the wrong path. The Sierra Club
should remain committed to its core mission to protect the nation's natural
resources, reduce consumption and promoting policy decisions that preserve our
wilderness and wildlife for future generations.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Preserving our resources

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 29, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUTS THREATEN PROGRAM TEACHING REFUGEES TO SAVE;
U.S. FUNDS FOR AGENCIES HELPING HUNDREDS OF IMMIGRANTS TO BE HALVED IN SEPTEMBER

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 811 words


Arewida Alem used to spend almost two hours, in a bus and on a train, commuting
from her Morgan Hill home to her job as a nurse's assistant in Menlo Park.

But a savings program for refugees, which matches family savings up to $4,000,
helped Alem and her husband, Walelign Kassa, buy a used van a month ago.

Kassa and Alem, refugees from Ethiopia who came to the United States two years
ago with just a suitcase of clothes, are ecstatic. Alem drives herself these
days, in a gold 1999 Mercury Villager, and the commute takes under an hour.

"Before, our life, my wife's life, was very difficult," Kassa said. "Now our
life is easier."

But the federally funded program responsible for helping the couple and hundreds
of other refugees in Santa Clara County save money, known as the Individual
Development Account Program, is likely to be cut by almost half beginning in
September. That means fewer low-income refugees will participate in the program
run by two regional agencies, the International Rescue Committee and Catholic
Charities.

Over the past five years, Catholic Charities has helped 49 refugees buy or
repair homes, nine start small businesses and 120 others purchase cars,
computers or finance their education. In all, refugees and immigrants saved a
total of $258,000. The program augmented the savings about 2 to 1, or $517,000
million.

A refugee from Iran used the money she saved and the matching funds to start her
own beauty salon. An immigrant from Mexico opened a child care center. A
Vietnamese woman, who was a physician in her country, is using the money on
classes to prepare for the California medical board exams.

The program run by International Rescue Committee, a non-profit refugee
resettlement agency that has operated the program for three years, has awarded
more than $600,000 in matching funds to 160 refugees.

The cuts to the programs are a small part of the overall budget cuts that will
affect refugee programs across the country, said Ellen Dumesnil, a division
director at Catholic Charities San Jose.

Banking basics

Both non-profit agencies expect to stop offering the savings help in 2006, when
the federal money is due to run out.

The program teaches low-income refugees and others who are not yet citizens the
basics of the U.S. banking and finance system. In a five-week, 10-hour course,
participants learn how to build their credit, open a checking account,
understand the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and decipher a credit
report.

On a recent Wednesday evening, Santa Clara banker Nina Davoodi, an
Assyrianrefugee from Iran, was drilling future savers on the inner workings of
the banking system at International Rescue's office on Koll Road. When one
student brought a copy of his credit card bill, she explained the interest rate,
and the higher rate applied to cash advances.

"I helped my mom with her banking and she went to her adult class and told other
immigrants about what she learned," said Davoodi, a volunteer teacher for the
non-profit agency's finance course. "That gave me the idea that I could
volunteer and teach other people."

Self-sufficiency

In order to qualify for the federal program, participants must receive a steady
paycheck. After the course, they open a savings account administered by program
coordinators and must continue to save slowly but steadily.

With their combined savings, Alem and Kassa, who works as a ride operator at
Bonfante Gardens, put in about $1,000 a month toward a new car. Families get a
maximum matching grant of $4,000. Individuals get $2,000.

Most refugees take as long as two years to save $2,000.

"We're teaching them to be self-sufficient," said Lara Fisher, savings program
coordinator for International Rescue Committee. "It helps the economy and helps
all of us in general."

Alem, 30, and Kassa, 34, bought the used van to replace a 1994 Isuzu Rodeo
family car that required $2,000 in repairs.

"It's really sad we're cutting this program," said Vanessa Cooper, coordinator
of Catholic Charities' program. "This is something that makes a permanent change
in people's lives. It's facilitating the American Dream at a very low cost."

SAVINGS PROGRAMS
A savings program for refugees, known as the Individual Development Account
Program, is facing drastic cuts. Two Santa Clara County non-profit agencies that
administer the program expect to stop offering the service in 2006. For more
information, contact the following program administrators:

Lara Fisher, International Rescue Committee, (408) 453-3536, extension 16. The
organization has awarded more than $600,000 in matching funds to 160 refugees.

Alma Salihovic, Catholic Charities, (408) 325-5154. The organization has awarded
approximately $517,000 in matching funds to 178 refugees.
Source: Mercury News

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ALSO RAN: PAGE 1B, Peninsula Edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ANNE-MARIE MCREYNOLDS -- MERCURY NEWS
Walelign Kassa of Morgan Hill and his daughter Rabia prepare to take a trip in
the van that he and his wife purchased with the help of a federal program that
helps refugees learn to save and also provides matching grants.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 29, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'HOOP DREAMS' APPROACH SHOWS IMMIGRANTS' TRAVAILS

BYLINE: CHARLIE MCCOLLUM column

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 645 words


One thing you can say for certain about PBS's "The New Americans": It's not some
quick hit on a hot-button issue.

The makers of this seven-hour documentary (9 tonight, Tuesday and Wednesday, Ch.
9) began their look at immigration to this country more than a decade ago. For
more than four years, they followed immigrants from five countries to what the
newcomers thought would be the American dream of liberty and riches.

What's most striking about "The New Americans" is the serious disconnection
between what the immigrants from Nigeria, Palestine, Mexico, the Dominican
Republic and India had hoped for in the United States and what they found.
Instead of a bright new life, they met racism, cultural isolation, loneliness
and job discrimination. Faced with a struggle to become part of this country,
some returned to their native countries but others persevered and, eventually,
became part of the American fabric.

Executive producer-director Steve James made one of the seminal modern
documentaries in 1994's "Hoop Dreams," an engrossing look at two budding young
basketball stars. Working with four other directors -- including Renee
Tajima-Pena who teaches at the University of California-Santa Cruz -- Jamesputs
a face (actually, faces) on the issue of immigration and turns "The New
Americans" into the stuff of high drama.

In fact, like a good scripted mini-series, "The New Americans" will probably
suck you in so thoroughly that it's hard to wait for the next installment. These
newcomers -- ranging from political refugees escaping oppression in Nigeria to
Dominican baseball players trying to break into the major leagues -- are people
you end up caring about deeply. You want them to find a place in America, even
though for some that proves impossible.

What you will not find in "The New Americans" are the predictable talking heads
debating immigration policy. This film is not about policy, as much as it may
reflect it. This is about people, and that's what makes "The New Americans" so
compelling.

* And now for something completely different: "Call Me: The Rise and Fall of
Heidi Fleiss" (9 tonight, USA). This made-for-TV film about the life and times
of the notorious Hollywood madam is so overripe, so badly acted and so perfectly
sleazy that it borders on camp classic. Certainly, it's hard to recall any
recent TV film with so many unintentionally funny bits of dialogue. And the sex
scenes are so un-erotic that they draw howls, too. It's hard to believe that
Jamie-Lynn DiScala -- Meadow on "The Sopranos" -- chose this as her first big
film. Fire your agent, honey! Oh, you're married to him? Too bad.

* A couple of late-night chat-fest notes: On Tuesday -- actually, the wee hours
of Wednesday -- "The Late, Late Show with Craig Kilborn" (12:35 a.m., Chs. 5,
46) celebrates its fifth anniversary. I have to admit I have a tendency to favor
Conan O'Brien over on NBC for late-night viewing, but Kilborn's show is
consistently funny and almost as quirky as Conan's. On Friday, one of TV's best
talk shows -- "On the Record With Bob Costas" (11 p.m., HBO) -- returns for its
fourth season. This is literate, engaging television with a host who is actually
capable of keeping up a smart conversation.

* Finally, a couple of kudos: One goes to "The O.C." (9 p.m. Wednesday, Chs. 2,
35) for last week's brilliant tongue-in-cheek episode that spoofed the show's
own success through a faux TV show called "The Valley." Funny stuff,
particularly Colin Hanks as a Seth-like geek. And "Nightline" (11:35 p.m.
weekdays, Ch. 7) gets big points for its work last week. Not did it provide the
most cogent TV coverage of the commission investigating Sept. 11 and the
controversial testimony of counter-terrorism expert Richard Clarke but it also
turned in a scathing look at how the new prescriptions for seniors bill became
law.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TELEVISION

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 9, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LITTLE GALLERY OFFERING CRAFTS BY IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: LEIGH WEIMERS column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 527 words


There's apparently no stifling of the artistic impulse, no matter what country
you're in.

Shortly before Christmas, a small gallery in downtown San Jose opened to exhibit
and sell textile and craft work by refugee and immigrant newcomers over the
holidays. And here it is spring, and the gallery, dubbed the Miracle on 3rd
Street, still is holding on.

"It's important for immigrants to have a way to share their culture," says Olga
Enciso-Smith, herself an immigrant entrepreneur and operator of the Inca Gardens
restaurant and Machu Picchu Gallery. Making a buck or two in your new country
doesn't hurt, either.

The Miracle on 3rd Street artisan gallery isn't easy to find. It's on the second
floor of a converted Victorian at Third and San Carlos streets. And it's open
only on Saturdays and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. How much longer it can
continue to operate depends on a number of factors -- continued support from the
West of Fourth Street Neighborhood Association and Enciso-Smith's Downtown
Retail Advocates organization, the stamina of volunteers, the economy in
general. But if you're looking for Easter, Passover or Mother's Day gifts -- and
Bosnian crochet work and hand-knit contemporary tops, woven garments from Sierra
Leone, shawls from Somalia, brocade pillow cases from India, traditional
Vietnamese dresses, and ceramics from Peru and Central America have any interest
-- give the little gallery-that-tried a gander.

PAPER TRAIL: Armon Mills, who helped found Silicon Valley Biz Ink in 2000 and
has been the weekly newspaper's publisher since that time, is heading south.
"I've accepted an unsolicited and surprising offer to be president and publisher
of the San Diego Business Journal," Mills says. He'll remain in his San Jose
position through May 1, and plans to retain his interest in Biz Ink and keep a
Los Gatos pied-a-terre. "I'll be back for at least our quarterly meetings," he
promises. Fellow investor Jim Evers, the former boss at KICU-TV, will step into
Mills' spot as publisher of Biz Ink and Valley Scene.

NAMES MAKE NOOZ: Mike and Lysa Riachy's blended Santa Clara family gets some
major TV time tonight at 7 o'clock on the Lifetime cable network show "Merge."
It chronicles the combining of two families -- Mike has two children, Cody, 9,
and Sandy, 8, and Lysa four, Josh, 14, Kylie, 11, Logan, 9 and Jordan, 5 -- and
the makeover of the house they live in. Sort of a reality "Brady Bunch."

And the nominees for Silicon Valley's top schmoozer are being announced today,
and what a loquacious lineup it is: Victor Arranaga of Applied Materials, Mike
Fox Jr. of M.E. Fox & Co., Rebecca Gallardo-Serrano of the Hispanic Association
of Real Estate Professionals, attorney Fernando Hernandez, Rosana Madrigal of
KLIV/KRTY, Diana Morgan of DBC Commercial Group, the aforementioned Mills of Biz
Ink, Cesar Plata of MuyBueno.net, Steve Rubin of Silicon Valley Bank, County
Assessor Larry Stone, Wes Weinhardt of the Tech and Jonathon Ziegler of M
Squared. This year's winner will be announced at a San Jose/Silicon Valley
Chamber of Commerce fiesta April 29. Until then, we'll just listen while they
talk.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 13, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SEEK WAYS TO END CONFLICTS IN NATIVE COUNTRIES

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 276 words

DATELINE: BAY AREA


A diverse group of South Asian immigrants will meet Sunday at Ohlone College in
Fremont to formally discuss how to bring peace to their home countries of
Afghanistan, India, China and Pakistan.

Topics will include how to rid that region of poverty, illiteracy and inadequate
health care, said Sanjana Chopra, one of the organizers.

Chopra said the symposium is in Fremont because the fourth-largest city in the
Bay area is a "microcosm of South Asia."

Chopra also said she hopes the diverse communities can give solid advice, in the
form of a report, to those in South Asia "to show the people there how we can
all live together, and that we have more commonalities than differences."

The symposium will be hosted by the International Association for Human Values,
a non-governmental organization founded in 1997 by world leaders including the
Dalai Lama. Another founder, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, will be Sunday's keynote
speaker.

Shankar is known around the world as His Holy Happiness, an international
humanitarian and a spiritual master who offers self-empowerment messages mixed
with breathing and yoga techniques.

Local panelists include Raka Ray, chair of the University of
California-Berkeley's Center for South Asia Studies, Rona Popal, president of
the Afghan Women's Association International, Syed R. Mahmood, president of the
American Institute of International Studies, and Tony Lin, adviser to the North
American Chinese Educational Foundation.

For information on tickets, which are $5 and $10, click on www.iahv.org.

The symposium will be 2 to 4 p.m. at Ohlone College's Smith Center, 43600
Mission Boulevard.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area Briefing
New From Around The Region

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 14, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOLDING TIME REDUCED FOR SEPT. 11 DETAINEES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


The Department of Homeland Security announced new rules Tuesday designed to
prevent a recurrence of the lengthy detention of hundreds of foreign nationals,
many of whom were prevented from making phone calls or contacting lawyers for
months after they were jailed in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks.

The guidelines, made public Tuesday by Asa Hutchinson, the department's
undersecretary for border and transportation security, were welcomed by civil
rights groups that had bitterly denounced the detention of 762 immigration
violators after the attacks, based on sometimes ill-founded FBI suspicionsthat
they had links to terrorism.

The new rules are a response to a critical report in June by the Justice
Department, which concluded that in the aftermath of the terrorist strikes,
hundreds of Arab and South Asian men who had committed sometimes minor
immigration violations languished in jail without timely review by U.S.
officials.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 22, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SIERRA CLUB ELECTS NEW BOARD MEMBERS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 304 words


Five new members were elected Wednesday to the Sierra Club's board of directors,
following a controversial and heated campaign that split the influential
environmental organization over the issue of immigration.

"We've been distracted by a very divisive election," said Larry Fahn, the club's
president.

"The members have spoken very clearly. It was a clear mandate that we should be
focusing on our mission of protecting the planet," he said.

Three outsider candidates who advocated for the club taking a tougher position
on immigration and its impact on the environment -- a former governor from
Colorado, a New York scientist and the former director of a congressional black
caucus -- lost by a wide margin, garnering less than one-tenth of the national
votes received by each of the winning board members.

"I think it's a pretty stark repudiation of the anti-immigrant agenda," said
David Ostendorf, executive director of the Center for New Community, a Chicago
faith-based, civil rights advocacy group that campaigned against
anti-immigration candidates.

The new board members are a marine biologist from Florida, a doctoral student in
Pennsylvania, an insurance executive from Michigan, a consumer attorney from San
Francisco and a North Carolina environmental activist.

All five were endorsed by a group called Groundswell Sierra, a network of Sierra
Club volunteers who fought against the takeover.

The controversy generated a record number of club voters -- 171,000 -- the most
in the club's 112-year old history, Fahn said.

The election was conducted by mail and online, and results were announced
Wednesday.

"I congratulate the winners," former Colorado governor Richard D. Lamm, who lost
a bid for one of the club seats, said in an e-mail Wednesday. "And I never argue
with the voters."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 2, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SHORTS

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff and wire reports

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 5H

LENGTH: 143 words

* "Gateway to Gold Mountain," a traveling exhibit by the Angel Island
Immigration Station Foundation, chronicling the immigration experience of
thousands of Asians who came to the United States from 1910 to 1940, will be on
view May 17-Sept. 6 at the National Geographic Theater at the Hearst Castle
Visitor Center.

* CityPass, the company that assembles most-visited attractions into booklets
for cities, has added CityPass Toronto; it covers admission to Art Gallery of
Ontario, CN Tower, Casa Loma, Ontario Science Centre, Royal Ontario Museum and
Toronto Zoo for $46 Canadian (about $35), $28.50 (about $21) for children.

* Starting in the fall, Carnival Cruise Lines' 2,124-passenger Spirit will offer
eight-day cruise vacations from San Diego, the first time Carnival has a
seasonal home-port operation from the Port of San Diego.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 5, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS TO CONSIDER MAJOR IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 96 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Millions of undocumented immigrants will be legalized and seasonal workers on
temporary visas will be able to apply to stay permanently in the United States
under proposed legislation introduced Tuesday in Congress.

The country's leading unions, civil rights and immigrant advocacy groups from
the Bay Area endorsed the bill, called SOLVE Act, or the Safe, Orderly, Legal
Visas and Enforcement Act of 2004, sponsored in the Senate by Sen. Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass.

The bill was sponsored in the House by U.S. Reps. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., and Luis
Gutierrez, D-Ill.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 11, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BAY AREA ACTIVIST WOULD BAR DOOR TO OTHERS;
'THE ANTI-IMMIGRANT IMMIGRANT'

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 997 words


A decade ago, she was Suzanne Feinberg, a suburban mom who joined a neighborhood
fight against an Orinda housing development.

Today, she is better known as Yeh Ling-Ling, a Vietnamese immigrant who is one
of the Bay Area's most vocal and impassioned critics of immigration.

As the executive director of Oakland's Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable
America, the woman dubbed by her opponents as the "anti-immigrant immigrant"
makes no apologies for her belief that excessive immigration saps the country's
resources and should be curtailed. And she's fully aware of the inherent
contradiction of her life story.

"If the U.S. government had told me in 1980 that the bus was full, I would have
understood," said Yeh, 51, who returned to using her birth name in 1994, when
she began her crusade.

In a simmering election-year debate over immigration reform, Yeh is perhaps the
country's best known advocate of a view that was once dismissed as extreme but
is gaining prominence in some quarters. Last month, the Sierra Club, the
country's oldest and most influential environmental organization, averted an
attempt by immigration critics connected to Yeh to win seats on its board.

Two of the losing candidates in the contentious election, Richard Lamm, former
governor of Colorado, and Frank Morris, former executive director of the
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, serve on the board of directors of
Diversity Alliance. They garnered more than 20,000 votes out of 171,000 cast, an
achievement Yeh considers a milestone in her campaign to curb immigration.

"You can't have quality and quantity at the same time," said Yeh, who became a
naturalized U.S. citizen in 1996.

Immigration, she believes, negatively influences a number of pressing issues
facing the nation: homeland security, overcrowded schools, the national budget,
health care and the environment. The United States could immediately solve
overpopulation problems, she said, by shutting its borders and letting only the
skilled, chosen few enter.

The eighth of nine children, Yeh was born in Saigon to affluent Chinese parents.
But when war broke out in 1957, the family fled to Cambodia. Beginning in 1970,
the family and thousands of others came under siege by the genocidal purge of
the Khmer Rouge. Yeh lost her parents and a sister in thatwar. She and a brother
went to Taiwan, where she learned Mandarin, Cantonese and Taiwanese.

From Taiwan, she went to study law in Paris. But after being denied residency in
France, she decided in 1980 to join a sister who had immigrated to Southern
California in the 1960s.

Yeh landed a job with a San Francisco attorney in the late 1980s, working as a
senior paralegal, helping immigrants complete their immigration papers. It was
there, working with low-income immigrants seeking to stay permanently in the
United States, that Yeh became convinced that immigration was exacerbating many
of America's social problems.

"It was a shock that she became so completely involved in anti-immigrant
positions," said David Strand, the San Francisco immigration attorney for whom
Yeh worked. "I disagree with her so much."

Yeh traces her concerns about overpopulation to seeing her father work hard to
support nine children. He would have enjoyed his life much more, she said, with
one or two children.

"If my father had stopped at two, I wouldn't be here. I know that," said the
divorced mother of a college-age son.

Limiting population growth was at the heart of Yeh's first public cause -- in
the mid 1990s she fought against a housing development near her neighborhood
that she worried would crowd roads and schools and exhaust community services.

Many fellow immigrants and immigrant advocates find Yeh's views particularly
painful.

"I don't want to give folks like her more credit than they deserve. This is
quite a minority point of view," said Traci Hong, an immigrant from Korea who is
an attorney for the National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium.

Eric Ward, field director of the Center for New Community, a faith-based
civil-rights group in Chicago, said Yeh represents a self-loathing perspective
that is not representative of immigrant and ethnic communities in the United
States.

"Yeh Ling-Ling is an anomaly. She's the Ward Connerly of the anti-immigrant
movement," said Ward, referring to the University of California regent who has
fought to ban the use of affirmative action in college admissions nationwide.

But Yeh also has found growing support across the country, including from
immigrants such as Maria Hsia Chang, a Hong Kong native and a political science
professor at the University of Nevada in Reno.

"The critics are saying that if you're an immigrant, you have no right to
advocate any kind of moratorium," said Chang, who's on an advisory board of
Diversity Alliance. "I find that criticism extremely curious."

It is no coincidence, Chang said, that immigrants like Vishwas More, a retired
Stanford University scientist and former member of the board of governors of the
California Community Colleges, serve on the Diversity Alliance board.

More, who immigrated from India, said Yeh's perspective as a critic is
important.

"As immigrants, we understand the issues better than people who were born here,"
More said.

YEH LING-LING
TITLE: Executive director, Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable America

BORN: Jan. 26, 1953, in Saigon, Vietnam. Immigrated to the United States in
1980, after living in Cambodia, Taiwan and France.

CAREER: French and Chinese interpreter; senior paralegal at a San Francisco law
firm; former staff member of Population-Environment Balance, a national group
that advocates a moratorium on immigration to control U.S. population.

EDUCATION: Two bachelor's degrees from the University of Paris-Sorbonne, with
concentrations in law and French-Chinese translation. Early education in
Cambodia. Secondary education in Taiwan.

FAMILY: Divorced, with one son.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Yeh Ling-Ling advocates an immigration policy that would allow only the skilled,
chosen few to enter the United States.
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
The executive director of Oakland's Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable
America, Yeh Ling-Ling, a naturalized citizen who immigrated to the United
States in 1980, has been dubbed the "anti-immigrant immigrant" by her opponents.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 18, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAYCHECK SEGREGATION;
WHAT'S NEXT, WORKING THREE JOBS TO GET A ROOM ABOVE A GARAGE?

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 484 words

"The jobs don't pay well," said Maria Parra, "and you can't live on one job."

So her husband, Miguel Hernandez works two, landscaping by day and dishwashing
by night. Two low-wage jobs gets the family of five $30,000 a year, no company
health insurance, and a one-bedroom apartment in the Bay Area.

Parra and Hernandez put faces on a new report showing that the children of
immigrants in California are three times more likely to live in poverty than the
children of citizens. The Mexican couple spoke with the Mercury News shortly
before Children Now, an Oakland-based advocacy group, released its findings this
week.

But I know a fair amount of immigration-control types who believe that's the
immigrants' fault, that when you don't speak English you'll get a low-end job,
and stay poor.

True enough. Maria Parra knows that as well anyone. That's why she's studying
English through a federal program and taking parenting classes. At the same
time, working-poor Mexican immigrants are less likely to receive food stamps and
other public assistance than citizens.

When these immigrants fall behind they don't fall into line for welfare. They
get a second job. Some get a third job. Like waves of European or Asian
newcomers before them, they take the long view. A house in the suburbs, a Kaiser
Permanente health card or a high-tech job may not be in the cards for them, but
it will for their children.

To their credit, the Children Now authors didn't recommend drastic changes. If
it were up to me, I'd raise the minimum wage to about $14 an hour, which is
where it would be had it kept up with the cost of living. But that's just me.

The report's authors argue instead for maintaining or expanding programs that
help the working-poor stay afloat and don't cost taxpayers a whole lot. That
public support -- English classes, medical coverage for children and day care --
promotes self-reliance.

Why should taxpayers fork out even one penny more, especially when immigrants
are so willing to grind it out?

The up-close answer is that few people can work three low-wage jobs without
suffering a nervous breakdown, a broken back or a broken marriage, while their
kids grow up on the streets.

America was a much better place when my dad could save enough from his low-wage,
trucking job to buy a little house. Now the working poor need two jobs for a
small apartment. What's next, three jobs for a room above a garage?

Economic segregation will only get worse if we fail to help the working poor --
immigrants and native-born Americans. We only have to look at last weekend's
newspapers. Fifty years after the U.S. Supreme Court outlawed school
segregation, the level of racial segregation driven by income disparity is
alarming. How much worse will segregation become in another 50 years, not only
in our schools but throughout society, if we abandon the working poor today?

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Miguel Hernandez and his wife, Maria Parra, with their children, Yasmin, 2,
Jose, 6, at left, and Miguel Jr., 10.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 29, 2004 Saturday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

IMMIGRANT HUB OFFERS DIVERSE HISTORY;
BARRACKS AT ANGEL ISLAND TO REOPEN TEMPORARILY, THEN WILL BE RENOVATED

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 763 words


Closed for renovation for seven months, the old barracks at the historic
Immigration Station at Angel Island, where thousands of immigrants were detained
between 1910 and 1940, is scheduled to reopen today.

"This is a great opportunity for families to come together and learn about
history," said Katherine Toy, executive director of the Angel Island Immigration
Station Foundation, the non-profit group that's working on preserving the
station, a designated National Historic Landmark on the San Francisco Bay
island.

More than 1 million immigrants were processed at Angel Island, called the "Ellis
Island of the West."

The two-story, clapboard barracks housed immigrants from Canada, China, India,
Mexico, New Zealand, the Philippines and Russia who were detained at the
station. But it is also historically significant because it was the temporary
home for thousands of Chinese detainees during an era when the federal
government implemented laws restricting, and then excluding, Asians from
immigrating into the country.

Chinese detainees carved poems about their longings and frustrations on the
walls of the first floor of the detention barracks, the only building that's
been opened to the public on the 15-acre station site.

An emergency program to preserve the poems forced the closing of the barracks in
October.

This weekend's reopening is short-lived. The entire Immigration Station will be
closed for a year beginning in November to undergo the first phase of a $30
million renovation. One focus will be the second floor of the barracks -- a
section that's never been opened to the public -- where conservators also found
writings in Farsi and Hindi. Little is known about the many Punjabi immigrants
who were at the station, Toy said.

"I'd hate for it to be typecast as a place for just Chinese and Asians," Toy
said. "The point is what happened to immigrants on Angel Island is the vehicle
by which to tell a universal story: We have a love-hate relationship with
immigration. That's the power of the place."

The renovation that begins in the fall will be paid for with a $15 million state
bond approved in 2000. But the cost of restoring the rest of the station -- a
hospital, another barracks, a power house -- will cost more than $15 million
more, Toy said.

Early this week, Rep. Lynn Woolsey, D-Santa Rosa, introduced legislation that
would allow the federal government to allocate funds to restore the Immigration
Station on Angel Island. The station is on the 740-acre island owned by the
California State Parks, which normally makes it ineligible to receive federal
funds.

"Not only our children but all Americans have something to learn from Angel
Island's immigrants," Woolsey said in a statement.

"We have a strong desire to see the restoration of this wonderful place," said
Roy Stearns, a spokesman for California State Parks.

Stearns declined comment about the proposed federal legislation becausestate
park officials have not reviewed it.

Dale Ching, 84, of Daly City, was 16 years old when he landed in San Francisco
in 1937 to join his father and a brother who had immigrated to the United States
two years before. He was detained at the station for 3 1/2 months.

"You didn't know what they were going to do to you," said Ching, who retired
from operating an appliance repair business. For five decades, he had no desire
to go back.

"I wanted to put everything behind me," he said.

Ching returned to Angel Island in 1991 with his grandchildren, who insisted he
go with them. Then he became a docent.

"This was the mess hall," he told a group of schoolchildren from San Francisco
and Santa Rosa on Thursday, as he stood on the foundation of what used to be the
dining area at the station. Men and women ate separately, and the food was spare
and not so good, he said.

Ching is the only former detainee who serves as a docent at the station, Toy
said. Her foundation is working to archive more firsthand accounts of former
detainees like Ching.

"We should always work to get these stories out of the older generation," Toy
said. "They have so much to tell us in their own words."

VISITING ANGEL ISLAND
* To get there: Take a ferry from Tiburon, San Francisco or Oakland/Alameda.

* Tours: Take a guided tour led by either Angel Island State Park's staff or
volunteers from the Angel Island Association. The Immigration Station and the
barracks are a 30- to 45-minute walk from the ferry dock.

* For more information: See www.aiisf.org

Source: Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Also Ran: page 1B Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photos (4), Map;
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
Docent Dale Ching shows a photo of immigrants leaving the Angel Island
Immigration Station. Thousands were held there in the early 1900s, including
Ching.
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
The interior of the Angel Island Immigration Station. The station, which is a
state park site, is scheduled to undergo an extensive renovation.
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
A Chinese poem carved into the wall of the Angel Island Immigration Station,
which housed immigrants from Canada, China, India, Mexico, New Zealand, the
Philippines and Russia.
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
Dale Ching is a docent at the Angel Island Immigration Station.
Ching was 16 when he came to the island in 1937 to join his father
and brother. He was detained 3 1, 2 months.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 2, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AIMING HIGHER;
UPWARDLY GLOBAL, AN S.F. NON-PROFIT, HELPS IMMIGRANTS FIND JOBS THAT UTILIZE
THEIR PROFESSIONAL TRAINING

BYLINE: JOHN BOUDREAU, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1014 words


The accountant from Sudan pumps gas in San Jose. The dentist from Colombia is a
nanny in San Francisco. The Cameroon man, with two law degrees, worked as a
security guard before getting a clerk position in a San Francisco law firm.

It's a scenario Jane Leu, who used to work for a refugee resettlement agency,
has seen played out again and again.

"Every place I went in the United States, I saw these really smart, ambitious
people working in factories," she said. "None were working in the professions
they were in their home countries. There were too many scientists cleaning hotel
rooms. They were pretty disillusioned."

So in 2000, Leu founded Upwardly Global, a San Francisco non-profit that helps
immigrants who are professionals, particularly those from Africa, Latin America
and Asia, find jobs that closely match their training.

The start-up non-profit is backed with $300,000 from the Draper Richards
Foundation, a foundation based in San Francisco started by venture capitalists
Bill Draper and Robin Richards Donohoe.

"I had seen what the Indian community had done for Silicon Valley," Draper said.
"I thought, 'Boy, we ought to make sure we use all the talent we have here.'
We've all seen immigrants in jobs that are just not fitting for their
backgrounds and skills. This model is scale-able. It shouldn't just work in the
valley. It should work in Texas and New York."

The organization aims to help immigrants navigate the American business culture,
giving advice on resume writing and the art of networking. It passes on job tips
and explains the nuances of the corporate culture. Clients are paired up with
volunteer mentors and sometimes pointed in new directions.

The organization only assists those with college degrees who have a permanent
working status in the United States. It reviews diplomas, course transcripts,
employment authorizations and asylum letters to screen candidates. It has placed
about 65 people in white-collar jobs, and is now working with 150 clients.

Even Upwardly Global can't always do direct matches, especially in fields such
as medicine, law and journalism, where American requirements are often different
from those of other countries. But the group tries to put clients at least in
the professional ranks.

There are few, if any, organizations like Upwardly Global, observed Don Climent,
regional director of the International Rescue Committee in San Francisco, which
provides resettlement services.

Those newly arrived here get immediate assistance "that will help them get a job
at the bottom rung," he said. "The more educated you are, the more you have
invested in your profession, the more you lose."

Jonas Enang Ekwoge, a lawyer from Cameroon, came to the United States in 2003 as
a refugee. He does not have training in American law.

"It's emotionally stressful," said Enang Ekwoge, who first worked as a security
guard but now is a clerk in a San Francisco law firm. "It's very difficult."

Starting over

Oyundary Tsagaan, a broadcast journalist from Mongolia, fled to the United
States in 2002 after she aired an investigation about government corruption. Her
husband, she said, died under suspicious circumstances after she started
receiving threats.

Now, she is starting over.

"I was working at a cafe in Oakland," Tsagaan said. "I couldn't find a job in my
profession."

Through Upwardly Global, she recently got a part-time position at a San
Francisco TV station as production assistant. It is, at least, a first step,
said Tsagaan, a former television station manager.

"I feel like I'm at my home," she said. "It's what I can do. It's what I used to
do."

Andrea Garcia, a systems engineer from Mexico, struggled to find satisfying work
in 2001, when she moved to the Bay Area after marrying an American. "I am a
minority here because there are not a lot of Mexicans with professional skills
who migrate to the United States," she said.

Upwardly Global "gave me contacts," she said. "That is the key thing."

Garcia landed a job as consultant after she and other representatives of the
non-profit made a presentation at BearingPoint, an international consulting
company. She said she is stunned by the flexibility of the American workplace,
where people can end up in jobs far removed from what they studied in college.

Upwardly Global has an excellent candidate base, said Shelley Hansen, director
for integration services alliances BearingPoint's Silicon Valley office.
"They've got a great mission," she said.

Leu also offers seminars to corporations to help them spot diverse talent.
Upwardly Global provides cultural guidance to companies, as well. For instance,
the practice of offering up ideas doesn't come naturally for some foreign-born
professionals, she said.

Cultural differences

"A lot of our clients just want to keep their head down, work hard, don't rock
the boat," Leu said. "They get a reputation that they don't have any good ideas,
which is not the case."

"The people who find us are highly motivated to get their careers back," she
said. "Their identity is tied to their professions. Imagine what it takes to be
a doctor if you are from Afghanistan and a woman."

UPWARDLY GLOBAL
* Founded: In 2000 by Jane Leu

* Mission: Helps immigrant professionals find work in their fields. Helps
companies find diverse job candidates. Provides Internet services.

* Number of employees: Four

* 2004 budget: $335,000

* Institutional supporters: Draper Richards Foundation, Ashoka, Three Guineas
Fund, MK Level Playing Field Institute, Community Technology Foundation of
California, The San Francisco Foundation, Cisco Foundation, Wells Fargo,
Autodesk, Union Bank of California

* Web site: www.upwardlyglobal.org

* Location: 582 Market St., Suite 1207, San Francisco

MATCH MAKERS
Upwardly Global is assisting 150 professional immigrants find careers that match
their expertise. They come from the following regions:

* Africa: 30 percent

* Latin America: 30 percent

* Asia: 25 percent

* Eastern Europe: 10 percent

* Middle East: 5 percent

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Upwardly Global is sponsoring a morning seminar, "Building Successful
Partnerships for Immigrant Inclusion," on June 17 at Agilent Technologies, 350
W. Trimble Road, San Jose. See www.upwardly
global.org or call (415) 834-9902.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Andrea Garcia recently landed a position with BearingPoint, an international
consulting company, with the help of Upwardly Global.
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Andrea Garcia, a systems engineer from Mexico, struggled to find satisfying
work.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 2, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AIMING HIGHER;
UPWARDLY GLOBAL, AN S.F. NON-PROFIT, HELPS IMMIGRANTS FIND JOBS THAT UTILIZE
THEIR PROFESSIONAL TRAINING

BYLINE: JOHN BOUDREAU, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1014 words


The accountant from Sudan pumps gas in San Jose. The dentist from Colombia is a
nanny in San Francisco. The Cameroon man, with two law degrees, worked as a
security guard before getting a clerk position in a San Francisco law firm.

It's a scenario Jane Leu, who used to work for a refugee resettlement agency,
has seen played out again and again.

"Every place I went in the United States, I saw these really smart, ambitious
people working in factories," she said. "None were working in the professions
they were in their home countries. There were too many scientists cleaning hotel
rooms. They were pretty disillusioned."

So in 2000, Leu founded Upwardly Global, a San Francisco non-profit that helps
immigrants who are professionals, particularly those from Africa, Latin America
and Asia, find jobs that closely match their training.

The start-up non-profit is backed with $300,000 from the Draper Richards
Foundation, a foundation based in San Francisco started by venture capitalists
Bill Draper and Robin Richards Donohoe.

"I had seen what the Indian community had done for Silicon Valley," Draper said.
"I thought, 'Boy, we ought to make sure we use all the talent we have here.'
We've all seen immigrants in jobs that are just not fitting for their
backgrounds and skills. This model is scale-able. It shouldn't just work in the
valley. It should work in Texas and New York."

The organization aims to help immigrants navigate the American business culture,
giving advice on resume writing and the art of networking. It passes on job tips
and explains the nuances of the corporate culture. Clients are paired up with
volunteer mentors and sometimes pointed in new directions.

The organization only assists those with college degrees who have a permanent
working status in the United States. It reviews diplomas, course transcripts,
employment authorizations and asylum letters to screen candidates. It has placed
about 65 people in white-collar jobs, and is now working with 150 clients.

Even Upwardly Global can't always do direct matches, especially in fields such
as medicine, law and journalism, where American requirements are often different
from those of other countries. But the group tries to put clients at least in
the professional ranks.

There are few, if any, organizations like Upwardly Global, observed Don Climent,
regional director of the International Rescue Committee in San Francisco, which
provides resettlement services.

Those newly arrived here get immediate assistance "that will help them get a job
at the bottom rung," he said. "The more educated you are, the more you have
invested in your profession, the more you lose."

Jonas Enang Ekwoge, a lawyer from Cameroon, came to the United States in 2003 as
a refugee. He does not have training in American law.

"It's emotionally stressful," said Enang Ekwoge, who first worked as a security
guard but now is a clerk in a San Francisco law firm. "It's very difficult."

Starting over

Oyundary Tsagaan, a broadcast journalist from Mongolia, fled to the United
States in 2002 after she aired an investigation about government corruption. Her
husband, she said, died under suspicious circumstances after she started
receiving threats.

Now, she is starting over.

"I was working at a cafe in Oakland," Tsagaan said. "I couldn't find a job in my
profession."

Through Upwardly Global, she recently got a part-time position at a San
Francisco TV station as production assistant. It is, at least, a first step,
said Tsagaan, a former television station manager.

"I feel like I'm at my home," she said. "It's what I can do. It's what I used to
do."

Andrea Garcia, a systems engineer from Mexico, struggled to find satisfying work
in 2001, when she moved to the Bay Area after marrying an American. "I am a
minority here because there are not a lot of Mexicans with professional skills
who migrate to the United States," she said.

Upwardly Global "gave me contacts," she said. "That is the key thing."

Garcia landed a job as consultant after she and other representatives of the
non-profit made a presentation at BearingPoint, an international consulting
company. She said she is stunned by the flexibility of the American workplace,
where people can end up in jobs far removed from what they studied in college.

Upwardly Global has an excellent candidate base, said Shelley Hansen, director
for integration services alliances BearingPoint's Silicon Valley office.
"They've got a great mission," she said.

Leu also offers seminars to corporations to help them spot diverse talent.
Upwardly Global provides cultural guidance to companies, as well. For instance,
the practice of offering up ideas doesn't come naturally for some foreign-born
professionals, she said.

Cultural differences

"A lot of our clients just want to keep their head down, work hard, don't rock
the boat," Leu said. "They get a reputation that they don't have any good ideas,
which is not the case."

"The people who find us are highly motivated to get their careers back," she
said. "Their identity is tied to their professions. Imagine what it takes to be
a doctor if you are from Afghanistan and a woman."

UPWARDLY GLOBAL
* Founded: In 2000 by Jane Leu

* Mission: Helps immigrant professionals find work in their fields. Helps
companies find diverse job candidates. Provides Internet services.

* Number of employees: Four

* 2004 budget: $335,000

* Institutional supporters: Draper Richards Foundation, Ashoka, Three Guineas
Fund, MK Level Playing Field Institute, Community Technology Foundation of
California, The San Francisco Foundation, Cisco Foundation, Wells Fargo,
Autodesk, Union Bank of California

* Web site: www.upwardlyglobal.org

* Location: 582 Market St., Suite 1207, San Francisco

MATCH MAKERS
Upwardly Global is assisting 150 professional immigrants find careers that match
their expertise. They come from the following regions:

* Africa: 30 percent

* Latin America: 30 percent

* Asia: 25 percent

* Eastern Europe: 10 percent

* Middle East: 5 percent

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Upwardly Global is sponsoring a morning seminar, "Building Successful
Partnerships for Immigrant Inclusion," on June 17 at Agilent Technologies, 350
W. Trimble Road, San Jose. See www.upwardly
global.org or call (415) 834-9902.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Andrea Garcia recently landed a position with BearingPoint, an international
consulting company, with the help of Upwardly Global.
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Andrea Garcia, a systems engineer from Mexico, struggled to find satisfying
work.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 18, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILL BOOMERS MOW LAWNS?;
UNLIKELY;
IMMIGRANTS, NOT RETIREES, WILL STILL BE DOING THE GRUNT WORK

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9C

LENGTH: 621 words


Back in the early days, I used to mow lawns and pull weeds on Saturdays for
people who lived in the hills a short bike ride from our house. They were happy
to help a high school student buy new blue jeans, a Stones album or help his
family pay the heating bill.

That was the limit of my economic output at age 16. I never thought young
Americans could replace immigrant, low-wage farmworkers, dishwashers and
seamstresses who kept American industries afloat. And as far as I knew, my
weekend employers weren't trying to subsidize their retirement by hiring teens
for odd jobs.

So I'm constantly amazed by two facets of the immigration-reform movement. The
first is the notion that American teenagers and college students could pick up
the slack if we deported all illegal immigrants. For good measure, they'd
recruit welfare recipients, too.

"I myself worked in a laundry and clerked in a department store when I went to
college in order to help pay for my education," one man wrote to me recently.
"My many fellow students also worked any job they could get. Yes, they even
picked crops in the harvest season. They mowed lawns, raked leaves, cleaned
houses, etc."

Reading letters like his, you wonder how Irish indentured servants, black
slaves, sharecroppers, Depression-era Okies, Japanese strawberry farmers, Puerto
Rican tobacco pickers and Mexican braceros ever found work, what with all those
college boys hogging up the good jobs.

I know a few teens in my city who'd love to flip burgers at McDonald's this
summer, but not a single one is anxious to pick lettuce in the hot sun all day
and live in farmworker housing. That's OK, because this next fellow offers a
solution:

"As for the farm work, picking crops and etc.," he wrote, "we will put the
engineers back to work designing modern-day equipment to handle this chore, and
with all this high tech technology available, it would be a simple thing to
replace the migrants."

Actually, he's got a point. Mechanized farming can reduce agriculture's
dependence on imported farmhands. But if you think your genetically engineered,
thick-skinned tomatoes and cucumbers have no meat now, just wait until the
machines serve up rock-hard strawberries.

Besides, domestic service, not agriculture, is the largest employer of illegal
immigrants. Until scientists invent an android nanny or gardener, the
mechanization of low-wage labor won't dent the problem.

But Americans can't retire with the quality of life they expect without large
numbers of immigrant workers to pay for it.

A new report from the Census Bureau points out that in a country nearing 300
million people, whites are aging rapidly while Latinos and Asians, who are the
fastest growing groups primarily through immigration, are younger.

The median age of whites is nearly 40. It is 34 for Asians, 31 for blacks, and
27 for Latinos.

William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution in Washington, suggests
that immigrant Latinos and Asians will replenish the workforce, allowing the
baby boomers to keep rockin' after retirin'.

If things continue at the same rate, there will be as many Latinos, Asians,
blacks and other minorities as non-Hispanic whites by 2050. By then, will the
children and grandchildren of immigrants settle for the grunt jobs that their
parents took without complaint? Of course not. They'll be better educated,
working better jobs and contributing to government and private retirement funds.

I don't know about you, but I don't want to move into Leisure World on the day
the Social Security Trust Fund goes bust, my 401(k) plan heads south and my
doctor abandons Medicare. The sooner we accept immigrants as our saviors, the
better off we'll be.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist. His column appears on Tuesday
and Friday.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 12, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CURBING CONTRACT FRAUD;
LAW REQUIRES CERTAIN FIRMS TO OFFER PAPERWORK IN CUSTOMER'S LANGUAGE
PROTECTION FOR ASIAN IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: CECILIA KANG, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 764 words


Since Minh Thai arrived from Vietnam six months ago, he has relied on relatives,
friends and even strangers to help translate everything from cell phone plans to
school enrollment forms.

Now, a new law meant to protect Asian immigrants from falling victim to contract
fraud will give the cosmetology student confidence to start shopping for a new
car -- on his own.

The Consumer Protection for New Californians bill, which took effect this month,
requires certain businesses that negotiate with customers in Chinese, Korean,
Tagalog or Vietnamese to provide contracts in those languages. It expands a
28-year-old state law that protects people who negotiate in Spanish and reflects
the state's ongoing attempt to adapt to an increasingly diverse population in
which a fifth of Californians who speak a foreign language at home also feel
they speak English "less than well."

"It's a big decision, so I want to fully understand what I'm signing," Thai, 49,
said through an interpreter. His family of four currently shares his daughter's
car. "I will feel more comfortable reading a contract in Vietnamese."

The law applies to documents related to car leases and purchases, residential
rental agreements, legal service fees and certain unsecured bank loans, such as
financing for household appliances. It does not affect credit card agreements,
mortgages, cell phone or cable television plans, or gym memberships.

Assemblywoman Judy Chu, D-Monterey Park, pushed for the legislation to help
reduce the number of instances in which Asian immigrants sign contracts in
English that have different terms from what is negotiated in their native
language.

"In a state as diverse as California, it only makes good business sense to serve
its business customers in the language they understand," Chu said.

In Santa Clara County, where a third of residents are foreign born, 20 percent
of the population speaks an Asian language at home and 10 percent feel they
speak English "less than well," according to the 2000 census.

Across the Bay Area, businesses have responded to the region's changing
demographics by hiring bilingual employees and producing brochures in a variety
of languages, said Phil Ting, executive director of the Asian Law Caucus in San
Francisco. It's only fair, he said, that they also provide financial contracts
in the same languages.

"This bill symbolizes greater inclusion," Ting said. "Without it, immigrants are
more vulnerable to abuse and businesses aren't held accountable."

But several industry groups argue the law is unnecessary.

The California Motor Car Dealers Association opposed the legislation when it was
introduced last year, saying that while the number of customers who prefer to
speak Asian languages is growing, it's still a relatively small market. The
costs of creating contracts in four additional languages outweigh the business
opportunity, said Brian Maas, the association's director of government affairs.
He said the 1,500 dealerships that the organization represents are responsible
for providing their own translated contracts.

"We didn't think there was a market case to be made for adding the four
languages," Maas said. "We have our doubts, but only time will tell."

Eric Wiegers, a spokesman for the Tri-County Apartment Association, which
represents 3,400 apartment owners, said the organization doesn't yet have lease
contracts ready in the four languages. In the meantime, they are recommending
its members negotiate and present contracts in English.

"The problem is that it is very difficult and costly to create standardized
forms in those languages," Wiegers said. "If it were easily done, I would agree
wholeheartedly with it."

But there are businesses that have responded in time to the law.

Anhtuan Truong, a dealer at Beshoff Mercedes Benz in San Jose, said he's been
offering his clients who negotiate in Vietnamese contracts in that language
since last week. But of the few Vietnamese-American customers he serves each
day, none have preferred contracts in Vietnamese.

"Most of them feel more comfortable to read technical language in English
because they never learned those terms in Vietnamese in the first place," Truong
said.
ABOUT THE LAW
THE RULE: Businesses that negotiate in a foreign language mustprovide a contract
in that language.
LANGUAGES: Chinese, Korean, Tagalog and Vietnamese, as well as Spanish.
THE CONTRACTS: Car leases and purchases, residential rental agreements, legal
service fees and certain unsecured bank loans, such as financing for household
appliances.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Eliza Duong checks out a car at Beshoff Mercedes Benz in San Jose, with
daughter, Erica Huynh, 3, left, niece Tracy Truong and salesman Andy Pham.
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS
A contract at Beshoff Mercedes Benz in San Jose is in Vietnamese, as required by
a state law on behalf of Asian immigrants that took effect this month.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 16, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHESS LEGEND ARRESTED ON 1992 CHARGE IN U.S.

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 141 words

DATELINE: JAPAN


The hunt for Bobby Fischer, the unpredictable chess legend, ended this week when
he was detained in Japan, where he awaits possible deportation on charges that
he attended a 1992 match in Yugoslavia in violation of a U.S. ban.

The Japanese Immigration Bureau detained the 61-year-old Fischer on Tuesday at
Narita International Airport in Tokyo at the urging of U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

The arrest capped a cat-and-mouse game between U.S. authorities and Fischer, who
shuttled among several nations, including Japan, the Philippines and Hungary, to
avoid arrest. A grand jury in Washington charged him in 1992 with violating the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act by going to Yugoslavia for the chess
match against Boris Spassky. The charge, handed up in 1992, carries a maximum
penalty of 10 years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WORLD NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 25, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WAITING AT HOME;
PILOT PROGRAM AIMS TO LIMIT JAIL TIME
IMMIGRANTS OFFERED HOUSE ARREST AMID DEPORTATION HEARINGS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 941 words


Every night after 6 p.m. when his curfew begins, Gerardo Gonzaga stands close to
the telephone in his Vallejo home.

He waits for a minute while the small electronic gadget strapped to his right
ankle transmits a signal to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office
in San Francisco.

The inaudible signal lets immigration officials know whether Gonzaga, 23, an
undocumented immigrant from Mexico who is facing deportation, is in fact at
home, under house arrest.

Gonzaga is one of the Bay Area's first participants in a national pilot program
that allows certain immigrants who have been arrested and detained to live at
home while awaiting deportation. San Francisco is one of eight U.S. immigration
bureaus that in the coming months will release as many as 200 immigrants who are
not convicted felons and do not pose a threat to national security.

"I couldn't stand it in jail," said Gonzaga, 23, who was arrested by immigration
agents last month at San Francisco International Airport, where he worked as a
cook at a Mexican restaurant.

'I feel good'

Gonzaga spent three nights in jail, a relatively short stay compared with many
others in his situation who have sat in cells for months and even years as they
awaited resolution of their cases. If it weren't for the pilot program, he knows
he'd still be in jail rather than at home with his wife, Lilian, and two infant
daughters, all U.S. citizens.

Under the program, Gonzaga is allowed to leave his home from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.,
but he is not allowed to work. These days he is taking care of his two young
children while his wife works as a cook at a restaurant at San Francisco
Airport. Three times a week, he must report to an immigration agent in San
Francisco.

"I feel good to be at home because I can be with my wife and children," said
Gonzaga, who came to the United States illegally six years ago from Puebla,
Mexico.

The pilot project, called Intensive Supervision Appearance Program, or ISAP,
relies on the same system and tools in place for non-violent criminal parolees:
electronic monitoring devices, random visits and regular meetings with
immigration agents.

So far, 25 of the more than 400 detainees being held in San Francisco have
qualified to participate in the month-old program, more than any other pilot
city, immigration officials said. The agency will evaluate the program after a
year to determine whether to continue.

"It's very good," said Nancy Alcantar, field office director for detention and
removal with Immigration and Customs Enforcement in San Francisco. "It's a way
for people whom we don't have to hold in custody to be with their families
instead."

Immigration officials said the extensive monitoring procedure also is a way to
ensure that immigrants such as Gonzaga don't skip out on their scheduled
hearings.

'Just a Band-Aid'

Many immigrant advocates who have been lobbying the Department of Homeland
Security -- the agency that oversees immigration enforcement -- to reduce the
number of detentions, praised the new program.

But some cautioned that it provides limited relief, ignoring thousands of other
immigrants awaiting hearings and deportation proceedings while in detention.

"This is a step in a more positive direction. But in a way it's just a
Band-Aid," said Amy Reinhorn, a spokeswoman for the Northern California chapter
of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "What really needs to be
addressed is why so many people need to be detained."

Since the former Immigration and Naturalization Service was split intothree
agencies -- a result of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 -- the federal
government has enforced mandatory detention of visa violators, undocumented
immigrants, non-citizen immigrants convicted of felonies, and others considered
a threat to national security.

Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national group that advocates for immigration limits, said it's too early to
tell how well the pilot program is going to work.

"There's a difference between theory and practice," Mehlman said. "It probably
could be viable if it's actually enforced and they're actually proceeding with
deportation."

'Nice to see her free'

Rosario Maria Hernandez, a San Francisco attorney, said one of her clients spent
more than 10 months in Yuba County Jail before the new program came along. Her
client, a legal permanent resident from South Korea and the widow of a Gulf War
veteran, is facing deportation because of two misdemeanor convictions for which
she has already served time.

Hernandez declined to discuss specifics of the convictions.

"After being detained for a long time, this is better," Hernandez said. "She can
breathe fresh air, she can go for walks, she can work. It's nice to see her free
again."

The outcome of Gonzaga's deportation proceeding is unknown, but he and his wife
are grateful for the time they have at home.

"It's difficult for us that he's not working," said Lilian Gonzaga, 23, an
immigrant from El Salvador who became a U.S. citizen in January. "But it's still
better than jail. He's with me and my children."

CHART:  MERCURY NEWS
Immigrants detained
U.S. immigration officials began cracking down on those living in the United
States illegally after the reorganization in 2002 of the former Immigration and
Naturalization Service.  The numbers of immigrants detained annually nationwide
by immigration authorities:
2001 208,267
2002 201,853
2003 231,497
Source: U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Nuevo Mundo Staff Writer Clarisse Cespedes contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Chart;
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
While his wife, Lilian, and daughter Nataly look on, Gerardo Gonzaga shows the
bracelet that links him with U.S. immigration authorities in San Francisco.
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Gerardo Gonzaga, sitting with his wife, Lilian, and daughter Nataly, has been
taking care of the kids.
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Gerardo Gonzaga, 23, of Vallejo stands on the balcony of his brother's San Bruno
apartment last week. Gonzaga's house arrest allows him to leave home from 6 a.m.
to 6 p.m.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               July 29, 2004 Thursday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

OAKLAND MAN SUES U.S. OVER DEPORTATION

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 297 words


An Oakland resident who claims he was wrongfully deported while awaiting his
application for political asylum filed a lawsuit in federal court in San
Francisco this week, seeking $10 million in punitive damages from the federal
government.

Victoriano Lorenso Jeronimo, 42, a Mayan native from Guatemala, was arrested by
immigration agents in March 2001, although a judge had ruled that he was
entitled to an asylum hearing. He returned to the United States two years later
and was granted asylum in March.

Jeronimo, represented by attorneys with the Lawyers' Committee for CivilRights,
was able to receive political asylum because he was sought by the Guatemalan
military and accused of being a guerrilla sympathizer. He left Guatemala in 1982
and lived in a refugee camp in Quintana Roo, Mexico.

He came to the United States seeking asylum in 1999.

"I was afraid of the soldiers and police in Guatemala. I was afraid I would be
killed if the soldiers knew who I was. What the U.S. government did to me was
wrong," Jeronimo said in a statement from his lawyer. "I lived in fear because
of what they did to me."

The lawsuit names the Department of Homeland Security, as well as unnamed
immigration agents.

Jeronimo was first ordered deported in January 2001, after he failed to appear
at his asylum hearing. According to court documents, Jeronimo is illiterate and
did not understand the hearing notice.

With the help of a lawyer, he succeeded in reopening his asylum case. An
immigration judge rescinded the deportation order.

But according to the lawsuit, immigration agents deported Jeronimo to Guatemala
"in defiance of the immigration judge's order."

A Washington, D.C., spokesman for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 14, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAN HELD AFTER SEPT. 11 DEPORTED TO PAKISTAN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 68 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Ansar Mahmood, 27, a Pakistani immigrant detained on terror suspicions in fall
2001 after he photographed near a water-treatment plant near Hudson, N.Y., has
been deported, officials confirmed Friday.

Mahmood was cleared of any ties to terrorism, but investigators found he helped
a Pakistani couple with expired visas obtain housing and charged him with
harboring illegal immigrants, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 17, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SOLID TURNAROUND AT IMMIGRATION OFFICE

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 197 words


For years, anyone passing by the infamous long lines of immigrants outside San
Jose's Immigration and Naturalization Service office could sense something was
wrong.

Mismanagement, paperwork delays and confusion reigned. Immigrants wanting to do
the right thing by applying for citizenship or residency sometimes were
literally out in the cold (or feeling the heat) and in limbo-land.

As Mercury News writer Jessie Mangaliman's article on Monday pointed out, the
federal office at 1887 Monterey Road is one of 81 nationwide that has been
reorganized and renamed the Citizenship and Immigration Services.

In San Jose, the differences go beyond a new name. They include improved
technology, family-friendly waiting areas and more respectful agents.

But the real change is in the results. The local office, once a nationally known
pit, now ranks among the top five U.S. immigration offices of similar clientele
size for processing of green-cards applications, and the 11th for citizenship
applications.

The office slashed a case backlog of more than 47,000 to below 4,000.

The ludicrously long lines are gone and efficiency and effectiveness have taken
their place.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 24, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SERVICE STARTS APPOINTMENTS ON INTERNET

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 422 words


A new Internet-based appointment system designed to put an end to lines at
federal immigration offices made its debut in San Jose on Monday to mixed
reviews.

For those who had made appointments, the process was a breeze. But walk-in
customers were not pleased to learn that users of the new system would get
served first.

"Very convenient," said Ingrid Hau, an immigrant from Hong Kong, who came to
renew her temporary resident card. Security guards waved her in after she showed
them a computer printout of her appointment, which she made a week ago.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will officially launch the new
system, known as Infopass, nationwide Monday. For years, the immigration agency
has been dogged by long lines that officials attribute to an archaic walk-in
system that forces immigrants to wait, often for hours.

"This is how it's supposed to be. See? No lines," said Martha Ramirez, a CIS
supervisor who greeted Infopass customers, and answered questions from walk-ins.

Beginning Oct. 1, San Jose will no longer allow walk-ins.

Some immigrants and their advocates worry that the Internet-based system will be
difficult to access for some.

"We don't have a computer at home," said Maria Fe de Castro, of Santa Clara, an
immigrant from the Philippines who came to get forms for her husband, who
recently got his green card.

Castro was prepared to wait to speak with an immigration officer about
completing the forms, but Ramirez persuaded her to make an Infopass appointment
for later this week. Since Infopass customers were being served first, there was
no guarantee that she'd see an officer Monday, Ramirez said. Castro said her
brother, who has a computer at home, can help her make an Infopass appointment.

"Imagine an immigrant who's not familiar with computers, trying to do this in
the public library and having technical problems," said Martha Campos, a program
director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network, a San Jose
non-profit group. "This is going to be crazy for people."

Warren Janssen, director of the San Jose CIS office, said it'll take some time
for immigrants to adjust, but he expects the new system to be a success as it
has in cities such as Miami and Los Angeles.

Janssen said Campos and other immigrant advocates are going to be critical in
educating the immigrant community about the new system. Most public libraries
and non-profit groups that work with immigrants have computers to help
immigrants make appointments, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
To make an appointment online, visit www.uscis.gov, click on Infopass and follow
directions.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 29, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THREE ROOTS JOURNEYS

BYLINE: JILL WOLFSON column

SECTION: BOOKS; Pg. 4H

LENGTH: 1021 words


FREE TO SUCCEED IN AMERICA
Like many novelists with recent-immigrant roots, Bharati Mukherjee, a professor
of English at the University of California-Berkeley and a San Francisco
resident, explores life between two cultures. Her characters struggle to balance
deeply ingrained tradition with a newfound taste for modernity.

In her new novel, "The Tree Bride," Mukherjee picks up where she left off in her
previous, well-received book, "Desirable Daughters." Calcutta-born and of high
caste, Tara Chattergee had come to Silicon Valley with her husband, who became a
cyberspace tycoon -- the "Atherton Communications Guru," "The Rajah Mogul" and
"The Swami of Stanford," as the press has dubbed him. He is the most successful
of a tide of immigration from south Asia:

"During the twenty years I've been in California, an immigrant fog of south
Asians has crept into America. Quiet, prosperous, hardworking, professional --
in India they would have been blocked by social convention andfamily duties.
There are Indians in every town, every hospital, every high school and college,
in banks, motels, 7-Elevens and taxis."

In the previous novel, Tara had left her husband and was living in San
Francisco. On the surface, she had become very Westernized, sophisticated and
urban enough to be divorced and living with a non-Indian. But a bomb blast in
her home shatters the facade of her assimilation. Pregnant, Tara is back with
her husband, who was injured in the bombing. She is also intent on researching a
compelling and mysterious ancestor: Tara Lata, the "Tree Bride" of the novel's
title. Generations ago, her father married her to a tree when the girl's fiance
died, a step that spared her a lifetime of grieving widowhood.

Mukherjee, author of six novels, two non-fiction books, two collections of short
stories and the winner of the National Book Critics Circle Award, combines wry
insight and political intrigue with a lyrical style. Her characters may be
transforming the communications industry, but they are also communicating with
ghosts. As the author explains: "I'm consciously playing with the American
literary tradition of roots-retrieval, mixing memory (Tara's personal as well as
her family's and community's) with imagination."

THE TREE BRIDE
By Bharati Mukherjee
Hyperion, 293 pp., $23.95
MEXICO HISTORY WOULD BENEFIT FROM A TIMELINE
At more than 600 pages, "The Life and Times of Mexico" is not a quick overview
of Mexican history or an easy read for someone hoping to get a linear account.

In his book, which will be in stores next month, San Francisco resident Earl
Shorris, recipient of the National Humanities Medal and the Mexican Order of the
Aztec Eagle, plunges the reader into 3,000 years of history. To tell the story,
Shorris weaves a sometimes difficult-to-follow path through art and politics,
religion and military battles, geography and linguistics. He brings together
straightforward history with tales in the oral tradition, interviews with
prostitutes and intellectuals, discussions of recent politics and the political
meaning of cuisine.

"Nothing so distinguishes the European from the American worlds in Mexico as
corn and bread. They are the primary symbols, native and imported, Mesoamerican
and Christian, poor and rich, dark and light, ancient and modern, ignorant and
intelligent. The conflict between corn and bread affects Mexican religion,
regionalism, corruption, language, diet, personality and politics. It is at the
heart of Mexico. And it is learned early, even now."

Shorris has a dense, sometimes poetic, sometimes heavy-handed writing style. In
a volume this large and ambitious, I found myself longing for some kind of
narrative thread to pull me through the head-spinning number of names, dates and
theories. It takes commitment to make this journey with Shorris. With so much
thrown at the reader, so much lovely language, it's best to take it slowly,
savoring a few pages at a time.
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF MEXICO
By Earl Shorris
Norton, 640 pp., $29.95
ONE FAMILY'S SAD ENCOUNTER WITH ALZHEIMER'S
In the slim novel "Someone Not Really Her Mother," three generations of women
confront the past, the future and the role of memory in understanding the
intricacies of family, art and motherhood.

Hannah Pearl, the matriarch of the family, is in an assisted-living facility,
vaguely aware that she is losing her memory. Names disappear as she is about to
say them. Her daughter morphs into a stranger and then into her own long-dead
mother. Her language is fading quickly, changing from English to her
early-childhood French. Hannah was the only one in her immediate family to
escape and survive the Nazis.

Harriet Chessman, who lives in the Bay Area, does an admirable job of
re-creating an Alzheimer's patient's tenuous hold on the present. Her Hannah is
gentle and compliant, initially accepting of her gaps in understanding. In one
well-developed scene, Hannah's daughter Miranda visits the facility to take her
mother out to lunch, dropping names of restaurant possibilities and exotic
dishes:

"What is she talking about? Hannah's glasses start to slip down her nose; she
catches them and fixes them. How is the woman coming up with names like this,
Pomegranate, Wings? She must be mistaken. . . . Not wishing to hurt the woman's
feelings, Hannah smiles, and the woman smiles too. She is American, Hannah's
sure. Hannah notices how her eyes look puzzled -- sad maybe. She has a little
line just above one of her eyebrows -- how is that called? A something line."

Hannah's granddaughters -- traditional Fiona, who is a new mother, and her more
poetic, free-spirited sister, Ida -- hold promise as characters but
unfortunately remain shadowy figures. Chessman is the author of two previous
novels, "Ohio Angels" and "Lydia Cassatt Reading the Morning Paper," and I kept
wishing for this one to be fuller, more probing of the triangle created when a
mother loses her own mother and granddaughters strive to make sense of their
legacy.

SOMEONE NOT REALLY HER MOTHER
By Harriet Scott Chessman
Dutton. 192 pp., $21.95

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay area books

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  September 9, 2004 Thursday CUPERTINO EDITION

DOCUMENTARY HAILS ASIAN-AMERICANS' RISE;
FILM, SHOWING ON PUBLIC ACCESS, FEATURES MANY OF THE COMMUNITY'S LEADERS

BYLINE: MICHAEL CRONK, Mercury News

SECTION: THE GUIDE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 594 words


A compelling coming-of-age saga of Asian-Americans in Silicon Valley is being
told through "In America -- The Cupertino Story."

The 25-minute documentary chronicles how Asian-Americans, who now represent
nearly half of the city's 52,000-plus residents, are continuing to help make
Cupertino one of the wealthiest and most successful multicultural communities in
the country. In the process, it maintains that Cupertino has become "a beacon of
the Asian-American grass-roots political movement."

Prominent local Asian-American leaders such as former Cupertino Mayor Michael
Chang and Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, lend their insights and personal stories
to the documentary.

"This is a story of America and of how immigrants have stepped up to the
opportunity to participate in community in all ways, including public service,"
said Chang, a college professor who in 1995 became the first Asian-American
elected to the Cupertino City Council.

"It's also a story of how American society makes it possible for different
immigrant groups to participate," he said.

A screening of the documentary was held Sept. 1 at a gathering of local elected
officials and volunteers at the Cypress Hotel in Cupertino. It was also the
focal point of a larger celebration of the International Channel Networks' "We
the People" program, which recognizes the contributions of immigrants to the
United States.

The documentary, which was shot by Echo Pictures and is being broadcast locally
this month on the Comcast cable system, highlights Cupertino's Asian-American
residents at work, at play and in the classroom.

There's footage of a community diversity conference in progress -- an example of
leading the way in striving to make the city a model of multicultural diversity.
Chang is seen first taking his seat on the city council. Cupertino Union School
District President Pearl Cheng visits with students at one of Cupertino's
academically strong schools. Asian-Americans shop at a farmers market, and wave
the flag and eat pancakes at Cupertino's Fourth of July celebration.

The high-tech industry is featured prominently because Cupertino is the home of
Apple Computer and because Asian-Americans make up as much as 20 percent to 30
percent of the employee workforce at Silicon Valley's 10 largest high-tech
companies, mostly in engineering and technical fields. A survey showed that from
1995 to 1999 more than 27 percent of 4,000 start-up companies were
Asian-American.

"Why Silicon Valley is Silicon Valley, is because there are so many immigrants:
engineers, high-tech, medical people and lawyers who have come to Silicon Valley
to make strong contributions," said Cupertino Vice Mayor Patrick Kwok, another
of the local leaders featured in the documentary.

"We're not here to take over. We're here to assimilate and integrate," Kwok
said. "That makes the community stronger and a better place to live."

The history of Asian-Americans in Silicon Valley is covered in the documentary,
from the Gold Rush days of the 1840s and the valley's agricultural past, to
their attempts to assimilate in the culture, to the recent influx of immigrants.
It also depicts shameful incidents such as the internment of Japanese-Americans
during World War II. The scenes are relatedin personal detail by Norman Mineta,
U.S. Transportation Secretary, and Honda.

"The Cupertino Story" is the sixth episode in the "In America" series that to
date has traced the history and experiences of Chinese, Indian, Russian,
Vietnamese and Arab immigrants to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The viewing schedule for "In America -- The Cupertino Story" is 10:30 a.m.
Friday; 11:30 a.m. Sept. 17; 1 p.m. Sept. 25; and 7 p.m. Sept. 29. For most
Comcast customers, the International Channel (produced by International Channel
Networks) is available on Expanded Basic service in Cupertino, Sunnyvale, Santa
Clara and most surrounding communities on Channel 69. However, until Comcast
completes upgrades that will standardize the channel lineup throughout the Bay
Area, the International Channel is available in a few neighborhoods on Channel
33.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
ON THE COVER: Rose-Marie Twu, one of two winners in the International Channel
Networks' 2004 Vision in America program, at a reception before a screening of
"In America -- The Cupertino Story" at the Cypress Hotel in Cupertino.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Cupertino Vice Mayor Patrick Kwok, left, former Mayor Michael Chang, Evergreen
Valley Professor Paul Fong and Cupertino schools chief Pearl Cheng answer
questions last month.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Rep. Mike Honda appears on screen during a viewing of "In America -- The
Cupertino Story" last month at the Cypress Hotel in Cupertino. The documentary
is part of a series that traces the history of groups that immigrated to the
United States.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 12, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MOMENTUM BUILDS TO RECTIFY '30S 'MEXICAN REPATRIATION'

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 485 words


Ignacio Pina was 6 when immigration officers came to his Montana home, held his
family behind bars for a week, then herded them onto a train bound for Mexico --
a country he and his five siblings had never seen.

"They just kicked us out with what we were wearing," the U.S.-born Pina recalls
more than 70 years later.

It was 1931, the first year of a decadelong effort to remove Mexicans to free up
jobs in a U.S. economy mired in the Great Depression. Estimates of the number of
people caught in the raids range from 500,000 to 2 million, with researchers
agreeing that they included tens of thousands of legal immigrants, as well as
children like Pina who were born in the United States.

"Mexican Repatriation," authorized by President Hoover and carried out in
cooperation with local authorities, targeted areas with large Latino
populations, mostly in California, Texas and Michigan. It left festering
emotional wounds that for many have still not healed.

Pina, an 80-year-old retired railroad worker who lives in Bakersfield, still
gets angry when he recalls how his family was uprooted and forced to struggle to
survive in a foreign country.

"It's a feeling I will have until I die," he said. "This government did a very
wrong thing."

He and others have long sought an apology and official acknowledgment of their
plight in U.S. history books. Now, there is a chance they may get their wish.

The California Legislature has passed two bills addressing the issue: One would
create a privately funded commission to investigate Mexican Repatriation; the
second would open a two-year window for victims to file damage claims, since the
statute of limitations has long since closed.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who has until the end of the month to sign the
bills, has not disclosed his position but supporters are optimistic, given his
recent appeal to fellow immigrants to join him in the Republican Party.

"One would hope that the governor's immigrant background would make him more
sympathetic," said Francisco Estrada, the director of public policy for the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

Last year, former Gov. Gray Davis vetoed legislation that would have reopened
the statute of limitations for damage claims, saying it would be more efficient
for the state to pay claims directly rather than through litigation. Other
critics say cash-strapped governments and businesses can't afford to compensate
people for a long-ago injustice.

Supporters of the measures compare the survivors of the repatriation to the
Japanese-Americans held at internment camps during World War II who received an
apology and $20,000 in reparations from the U.S. government in 1988. U.S. Rep.
Hilda Solis, D-El Monte, plans to introduce a bill in Congress this year that
would investigate the Depression-era deportations and consider whether
reparations would be appropriate.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 23, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANTI-TERROR MEASURES DELAY 'GREEN CARD' PROCESSING

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 106 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


The number of foreigners who became permanent U.S. immigrants dropped sharply in
2003 as anti-terrorism measures delayed the processing of applications, said a
new government report.

The Homeland Security report showed that 705,827 people became legal permanent
residents in fiscal year 2003, down from 1.06 million the year before. A
permanent-resident document, known as a green card, allows an immigrant to live
and work indefinitely in the United States.

Of the foreign residents already in the United States, only 347,416 got green
cards in 2003, roughly half the number as in the previous year, because of the
slowdown.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 19, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT GROUPS RALLY BEHIND LICENSE LAW

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 127 words

DATELINE: MONTEREY PARK


Supporters of a new law granting illegal immigrants the right to apply for
driver's licenses said Saturday that they would stage work stoppages and other
actions as part of a counteroffensive against a Republican effort to overturn
the measure.

About 150 members of Hermandad Mexicana Latinoamericana, a Santa Ana-based
immigrants' advocacy group, were joined by Democratic officials at the group's
national conference to devise strategies to protect the controversial law.

Along with work stoppages, the group intends to designate days on which
supporters will not make purchases at stores or send their children to school.

Nativo Lopez, the group's national director, said California's economy would
suffer without the contributions of immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 29, 2004 Thursday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

TEACHER FREED FROM JAIL BUT MUST LEAVE U.S. IN MONTH

BYLINE: JOSHUA L. KWAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 559 words


Yana Slobodova came home from jail Tuesday night, but it is a bittersweet and
temporary reprieve.

The Russian piano teacher was detained and had been held in an Oakland jail for
nearly three weeks because she was living in the United States without
authorization. Slobodova could have been deported without the chance to say
goodbye to her 20-month-old son, Nikita, and her husband, Alexander Makarchuk.
But in order to gain freedom for 30 days, Slobodova promised immigration
officials she would not appeal her case any further and to leave the United
States by Feb. 27.

"I'm just happy to be out, to tell you the truth," said Slobodova, who arrived
in the country in 1996 with improper papers. "I'm probably going to be shocked
later, upset later, but for now I'm just happy to see my baby and my husband."

Makarchuk, a U.S. citizen, is still seething. "I feel mad at the government
because they made her sign away her rights" to keep appealing her case. If
Slobodova had not agreed to the conditions of her release, she might have been
deported to Russia without seeing her family.

While a direct appeal to immigration officials is off the table, Makarchuk said
the family will try asking for help from various branches of the federal
government: California's congressional delegation, the Department of Homeland
Security and Vice President Dick Cheney.

Slobodova, who lives in San Francisco, is from St. Petersburg, Russia. In 1996,
while she was single, she entered the United States with documentation stating
that she was the wife of a U.S. citizen. Slobodova has since admitted to
misrepresenting herself to immigration officials, but she and her husband
contend that she was also the victim of fraudulent immigration consultants who
gave her the wrong paperwork. Slobodova said she paid $10,000 to immigration
consultants, who convinced her she could gain permanent residency based on her
extraordinary musical ability.

Upon arriving in the United States, Slobodova began a lengthy process of seeking
asylum. She married Makarchuk, a naturalized citizen, in 1999. Her parents
successfully sought refugee status as Russian Jews and now live in San Mateo.
They helped post Slobodova's $10,000 bond from jail this week.

The much-beloved teacher taught private piano lessons at a performing arts
school in San Francisco and at the Community School of Music and Arts in
Mountain View. Dozens of students, parents and friends have written letters to
immigration officials attesting to Slobodova's character and the hardship to her
family that her deportation would cause.

Makarchuk has no plans to move to Russia. He hopes to find a cheaper apartment
for himself and Nikita, and Slobodova is looking up acquaintances in St.
Petersburg, where she earned a master's degree at a conservatory. Makarchuk can
later make another attempt to gain permanent residency for his wife. Beyond
that, the family said, it is hard to picture the future.

"I love the city," said Slobodova, who lives in San Francisco. "I have a healthy
baby and everything was going so well for me. It's very hard to lose all this.

"Being locked up for so long makes you think how much you take for granted. It's
about time to say thank you for everything. I'll call and see a lot of people.
Thirty days seems maybe like a long time, but it's not."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 8B, Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SPECIAL TO THE MERCURY NEWS
Yana Slobodova, shown with son Nikita, taught piano lessons at the Community
School of Music and Arts in Mountain View.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 27, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UTAH DEBATES MEXICAN ID CARD;
CONSUL SLAMS BILL THAT WOULD DENY DRIVER'S LICENSES

BYLINE: PAUL FOY, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY


The Mexican consul in Utah denounced a bill in the Legislature that would
prevent Mexican nationals from using a Mexican identification card to obtain a
Utah driver's license, saying advocates were "promoting hatred against Mexican
people."

The consul, Patricia Deluera, was joined Thursday at the Utah Capitol by a
Mormon Church representative, who said backers of the bill may have improperly
claimed the church supported their cause.

Deluera said she was particularly upset over claims by an anti-immigration group
in Utah that the Mexican government encourages its citizens to illegally enter
the United States.

Matt Throckmorton, chairman of Utahns for Immigration Reform and Enforcement,
said Thursday that he stood by that remark, which he made at a legislative
hearing last week.

Deluera said the assertion is "false and unfounded" and hurts relations between
Mexico and the United States.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints said it was investigating
complaints that Utahns for Immigration Reform and Enforcement was "citing church
teachings as apparent justification for their political purposes."

Meanwhile, state Rep. Mike Thompson defended House Bill 109, which would stop
Utah driver's license clerks from accepting Mexican ID cards as valid proof of
identity. The cards are issued by Mexican consulates in the United States.

Throckmorton said applicants' backgrounds are not checked, making the cards
unreliable.

Deluera insisted the identification was "very reliable."

The Utah driver's license division accepts Mexican ID cards because "we have a
very good relationship with the consulate" in Salt Lake City, said Judy
Hamaker-Mann, the division's director. She said the agency accepts cards issued
only by that office and not from Mexican consulates in other states.

"Our position has been, if people can prove who they are, they can take a
driver's test, get a license, register their vehicle and buy insurance,"
Hamaker-Mann said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 21, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOAT HIJACK STORY DISPUTED;
REFUGEES DESCRIBE SMUGGLING OPERATION

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 457 words


A stonemason and a part-time electrician from China described Wednesday in
federal court the inner workings of a human-smuggling operation that ended on
the coast of Big Sur last year when 10 undocumented Chinese men washed ashore.

The testimony of the two men from the southern China province of Fujian
contradicted hijacking claims by Capt. Lai Fa Chen and Zong Xian Lin, both of
Taiwan, who are on trial this week in U.S. District Court in San Jose on charges
of smuggling undocumented immigrants.

They are accused of smuggling the 10 men, who are in their 20s and 30s, on a
fishing boat called the Kuai Le 366, which was found Oct. 21, 2002, by the U.S.
Coast Guard about nine miles off the California coast.

Chen told local and federal authorities that the 10 men, who he said were hired
as fishermen in August 2002, hijacked the boat. In court documents, he said that
the men detained him in the ship's hold until it reached California waters.

But in testimony Monday, two of the undocumented men described how they each
paid a deposit of $10,000 to be smuggled aboard the boat.

The men remained in the ship's hold for about 20 days, according to testimony.
The voyage to the United States took about two months. In the final hours the
men boarded a life raft and washed ashore in Big Sur.

Xiong Yu, the stonemason who testified Monday, said with help from his brothers
and sisters, he borrowed the money to pay for the trip. Yu is the first of the
Chinese men to testify in the trial, which is expected to continue for four
weeks.

In court documents, Yu and the other men told FBI agents that they detained Chen
only after the captain demanded an additional $10,000 each to take them to
California. They refused, the men said, and then detained Chen. The engineer
steered them to the United States.

"We did not use force or violence," Yu said in court Monday. "We asked him to go
down in the hold because we were afraid he would take the boat back to China."

In a plea bargain agreement with government prosecutors, Yu and the other men
have since pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor count of illegal entry into the
United States in exchange for their testimony about the smuggling operation. All
of them are in a federal halfway house in San Francisco, and they have all
applied for political asylum, citing China's one-child policy.

"I must come to America. I was hurt by the family planning in China," testified
Yu Han Bing, 28, a cook and part-time electrician from Fujian province of China.

As part of the deal, prosecutors will recommend to the Department of Homeland
Security that the men receive visas that will allow them to remain legally in
the United States, according to court documents.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 216 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 15, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLING RINGLEADER GUILTY IN 19 DEATHS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 70 words

DATELINE: TEXAS


The ringleader in the nation's deadliest immigrant-smuggling scheme pleaded
guilty Monday in Houston in connection with the deaths of 19 people abandoned in
a sweltering truck trailer.

Karla Patricia Chavez, 26, could get up to life in prison without parole at
sentencing Sept. 13.

The Honduran woman pleaded guilty to conspiring to harbor and transport illegal
immigrants in a manner that led to their deaths.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
