
                               1 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                September 25, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL BATTLE ENDS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


House and Senate negotiators Tuesday approved an immigration bill that stiffens
border enforcement, speeds the deportation of aliens who are criminals and
restricts public benefits to legal immigrants. Republicans dropped a provision
allowing states to bar children who are illegal immigrants from public schools.
That provision will be changed to exempt all illegal immigrant children who are
enrolled in school as of next July, and will be voted on as a separate bill.
Democrats objected to provisions allowing legal immigrants to be deported if
they used more than 12 months of public benefits, including child care or
English classes. Another would bar legal immigrants infected with the AIDS virus
from receiving publicly financed health treatment. The House scheduled a vote
for today and a Senate vote is expected soon.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 8, 1998 Thursday

INS RAID ON COSSETTA'S;
NEW WELFARE UPS ANTE ON IMMIGRATION RULES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 381 words


When the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service raided the Cossetta Italian
Market & Pizzeria this week, it served up a reminder that the problem of
undocumented alien workers has long since arrived in the Upper Midwest, far from
stereotypical arenas of immigration overload in Texas, Florida and California.

The agency thinks many thousands of noncitizens work illegally in the Twin
Cities today.

The INS arrested 23 alleged illegal workers at Cossetta's and suspects that as
many as 70 may have been employed there using counterfeit documents.

Without presuming to know all the facts in the Cossetta case, we believe it is
clear that most employers seek to comply with immigration laws - and equally
clear that a few knowingly defy them.

Among law-abiding employers, the trouble is often a lack of knowledge about the
laws. In particular, there is fear and confusion about how to avoid
discrimination complaints while complying with laws forbidding employment of
nonresident aliens.

The INS is eager to help educate employers and industry groups on these issues
(call 335-2255 for information).

But even informed and honest employers can't be expected to recognize
counterfeit documents. This fact provides a handy alibi to businesspeople who
employ workers they know or suspect to be illegal. They do so for the simple
reason that illegal workers often make desirable employees - industrious,
uncomplaining and cheap.

In these days of labor shortages and record low unemployment rates, it's
unlikely undocumented workers are crowding out large numbers of willing
unemployed Americans, or even pulling low-skill wages down significantly.

But it is vital that illegal workers not be allowed to undermine the labor
market for welfare recipients being pressed to find employment as welfare reform
gets under way.

It is true that the ease with which illegals seem to secure jobs raises doubts
about nonworking Americans' eagerness to find work. But if the idle are now to
be prodded, they shouldn't face unfair and illegal competition.

Congress must provide the resources needed for vigorous enforcement of
immigration laws, even here in the north. Employers must inform themselves of
their responsibilities and cooperate fully with federal officials.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 30, 1999 Friday

CALIFORNIA WON'T CONTINUE EFFORTS TO CUT BENEFITS TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
VOTER-APPROVED MEASURE WAS BLOCKED BY COURTS

BYLINE: SCOTT LINDLAW ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, CALIF.


Gov. Gray Davis on Thursday abandoned the state's effort to preserve Proposition
187, a voter-approved ban on schooling and other public benefits for illegal
immigrants.

Davis and other parties involved in a legal dispute stemming from the 1994
measure emerged from mediation saying federal law already does much of what the
measure sought to do.

Proposition 187 was approved by 59 percent of the voters, but federal courts
have blocked virtually all of it from taking effect.

"We have resolved a divisive wedge issue in a way that is fair to the voters,
the constitution and the law," said Davis, a Democrat who opposed the measure.
His predecessor, Republican Pete Wilson, backed it.

Under the agreement, the parties in the secret mediation, who included several
Proposition 187 opponents but none of its supporters, asked a federal court to
drop the state's appeals.

Sharon Browne, a lawyer for the drafters of Proposition 187, condemned the deal.
She said her group, the Pacific Legal Foundation, was studying the agreement and
considering "future litigation," including suing state agencies that do not
implement provisions of Proposition 187.

Davis

"All the voters who voted for Proposition 187 were without a voice in the
litigation," Browne said.

Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, a critic of Davis' handling of the matter, praised the
deal.

"Today, an ugly chapter in the history of California politics has come to an
end," said Bustamante, a Democrat.

The initiative sought to exclude illegal immigrants from public schools and
other social services, including non-emergency health care. It also would have
required state and local officials and service providers to report suspected
illegal immigrants to federal authorities.

Those in the mediation agreed that the landmark 1996 federal welfare law cut
illegal immigrants off from many of the same services targeted by Proposition
187.

The parties also agreed that a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling requiring Texas to
educate illegal immigrants prohibited Proposition 187's effort to keep such
students out of public schools.

The only part of Proposition 187 that survives is a provision imposing tougher
penalties on those who sell or use false identification documents to hide their
true citizenship.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer has until Sept. 30 to approve or reject the
agreement.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:
Davis

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 4, 1998 Thursday

2 MEN INDICTED IN SMUGGLING OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Ka Vang, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 408 words


Two Mexican nationals were indicted by a federal grand jury Wednesday in
connection with the smuggling of 19 illegal immigrants into the country in a
van.

Juan Cortez-Ortega and Pedro Vital-Granados were allegedly transporting
Ecuadoran nationals in a van and heading to the Twin Cities and New York when
the vehicle broke down May 7 on northbound Interstate 35 in Lakeville.

INS agents arrested the two men after Lakeville police spotted the van around 1
p.m. with a flat tire near the County Road 50 interchange.

When police stopped to help, they noticed the van had Arizona license plates and
saw people huddled in a nearby ditch. INS agents were called to the scene and
discovered the van had an oversized gas tank and a hole in the floor, being used
as a urinal. Both are common practices among those who smuggle illegal
immigrants, said Chuck Midby, supervisor and special agent for the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Authorities reported finding 19 people - 17 men and two women - lying in the
ditch. They told authorities that Cortez-Ortega and Vital-Granados were the
drivers, court documents say. The illegal immigrants also reportedly said they
paid Cortez-Ortega to transport them to various cities in the United States.
During the arrest, police found $801 on Cortez-Ortega. Vital-Granados allegedly
admitted that a professional smuggler hired him to transport the immigrants to
various destinations.

Vital-Granados was previously deported from the United States to Mexico on Oct.
6, 1997, court documents say.

As the 19 people awaited deportation back to their native land, which could take
as long as four years, the men they identified as their drivers were indicted on
charges of conspiring to transport and harbor illegal aliens.

If convicted, Cortez-Ortega and Vital-Granados could face a maximum penalty of
15 years in prison and a $500,000 fine. They are currently being held without
bail. Their arraignment hearing has not been scheduled yet, said Karen Bailey,
media coordinator for the U.S. attorney's office.

The Twin Cities and New York are major hubs for illegal immigrants because both
cities have a high demand for workers, Midby said.

It is common practice for smugglers to use the highway to move illegal
immigrants around, he said. "In the last couple of years, the illegal problem
has gone from bad to worse," he said. "The labor shortage is more acute now."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: A shorter version of this story appeared in the City edition
When police stopped to help, they noticed the van had Arizona license plates and
saw people huddled in a nearby ditch. INS agents were called to the scene and
discovered the van had an oversized gas tank and a hole in the floor, being used
as a urinal.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 2, 1998 Wednesday

ONCE HOME FREE, MEXICAN MAN FACES PRISON;
ALIEN SMUGGLER WAS CAUGHT TRYING TO RE-ENTER U.S.

BYLINE: David Hawley, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 431 words


Pedro Vital-Granados was facing federal charges for smuggling illegal immigrants
last May when the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service made a mistake and
deported him.

But on Tuesday, the Mexican citizen stood before a federal judge in Minneapolis
and pleaded guilty to charges that he conspired to transport 19 illegal
immigrants, all Ecuadoran nationals, into the United States.

The appearance came after Vital-Granados, 22, was caught trying to re-enter the
United States in June by sneaking across the border in Arizona. Until he crossed
the border, federal officials said there was little likelihood that
Vital-Granados would be arrested in Mexico and extradited back to Minnesota.

"Once a smuggler, always a smuggler," said Assistant U.S. Attorney David Reyes
in explaining why Vital-Granados had taken a chance on getting caught in U.S.
territory.

But Brian Toder, attorney for Vital-Granados, disagreed. "This is a guy who
loves America," Toder said. "Unfortunately, he committed a felony to get here."

Vital-Granados' reason for returning to U.S. jurisdiction did not come up when
he appeared before U.S. District Judge John R. Tunheim and pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to transport illegal immigrants. Under a plea agreement, he faces
between 18 and 24 months in prison.

The charges stemmed from an incident that occurred May 7 when a van driven by
Vital-Granados and another man broke down on Interstate 35 in Lakeville. When
police stopped to help, they noticed the van had Arizona license plates and saw
people - 17 men and two women - huddled in a nearby ditch.

Vital-Granados later told INS agents that he had been hired to drive from
Phoenix to the Twin Cities, Chicago and New York, dropping off groups of illegal
immigrants in each city. INS agents said the van had an oversized gas tank and a
hole in the floor that was used as a urinal.

Tunheim said Vital-Granados could be sentenced to up to three years of probation
in addition to his prison term - even though it's likely that he will be
deported after he serves his sentence. The probation sentence means that
Vital-Granados could be exposed to additional prosecution if he attempts to
illegally enter the United States after he is released from prison and deported.

Vital-Granados was previously deported from the United States to Mexico in
October 1997, according to an indictment that was handed down last June. He
remains in federal custody until sentencing later this year.

Minneapolis reporter David Hawley can be reached at dhawley@pioneerpress.com or
(612) 338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 21, 1998 Saturday

OFFICIALS BREAK UP BIG ALIEN SMUGGLING RING;
MULTIMILLION-DOLLAR, WORLDWIDE OPERATION BROUGHT MORE THAN 12,000 PEOPLE TO U.S.

BYLINE: MICHELLE MITTELSTADT, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal officials said Friday they had smashed an international ring that
smuggled more than 12,000 Indians and other foreigners into the United States at
$20,000 or more a person, using Russia, Cuba and other countries as transit
points.

It was the largest operation to smuggle aliens into the United States ever
dismantled, they said.

"Let all those who flout the nation's immigration laws be warned: We plan to
take swift and decisive action against smuggling whenever we discover it,"
Attorney General Janet Reno said.

Twenty-one people have been arrested in the United States, Puerto Rico and the
Bahamas as part of "Operation Seek and Keep," a yearlong smuggling and
money-laundering investigation led by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. A federal grand jury in Dallas charged 31 people in three sealed
indictments that contain 58 immigration and money-laundering counts.

The organization's alleged ringleader, Nick Diaz, also known as Nitin Shettie,
was arrested by INS officials in the Bahamas last week and is in custody in
Miami. A second alleged leader, Navtej Pall Singh Sandu, was arrested in Puerto
Rico. A third, Niranjan Maan Singh, is being sought. He is believed to be in
India.

Officials said the organization, a loose confederation of three separate
cartels, specialized in smuggling Indian nationals through Moscow to Cuba, where
they were dispatched to Ecuador, the Bahamas or Mexico before being smuggled
into Texas, Florida and other U.S. points by land, sea or air. The ring also
smuggled aliens from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Syria, the officials said.

The ring, whose take was estimated at nearly $220 million, smuggled more than
12,000 foreigners into the United States over the last three years. The illegal
immigrants were detained in secret houses in New Jersey, Florida and elsewhere
until their families or prospective employers paid their smuggling fees. Aliens
whose smuggling fees were paid by an employer worked for that employer until the
debt was paid off, officials said.

Officials would not name the employers or specify their industries.

But U.S. Attorney Paul Coggins said numerous worksite enforcement actions will
result: "We have approximately 1,000 leads across this country in connection
with the unscrupulous businesses that placed orders for these illegal aliens."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 23, 1997 Sunday

THOUSANDS OF FRENCH PROTEST NEW IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION;
OPPONENTS SAY BILL MAKES SCAPEGOATS OF SOME IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MATTHEW GLEDHILL, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Tens of thousands of people marched through Paris on Saturday in a star-studded
show of opposition against an immigration law they say is dangerous.

Although prompted by a bill to curb illegal immigration, the protest was equally
against the influence of the far-right National Front and a perceived
anti-immigrant tendency in French politics.

"This is against a state of mind that says immigrants are automatically guilty
of the problems in our society," French director Bertrand Tavernier said. "This
started a long time ago."

When the march ended, about 300 illegal immigrants, mainly from Asia, occupied a
church in Paris. They demanded negotiations to obtain residency permits.

A similar action by immigrants at another church last summer became a crisis for
the conservative government. The standoff dragged on for weeks until police
hauled off the occupiers, to the anger of many French.

The sea of demonstrators Saturday stretched for more than a mile. Some carried
suitcases, suggesting the tenuous nature of the immigrant's existence.

"French, Immigrants, Solidarity," chanted the crowd, which included people of
all ages and races.

Police said 33,000 people took part in the protest. The participants included
Danielle Mitterrand, wife of the late Socialist President Francois Mitterrand;
actress Emmanuelle Beart; theater director Ariane Mnouchkine; and British singer
and actress Jane Birkin.

Smaller marches occurred in several other cities, including Lyon and Marseille.

The march took place Saturday despite the fact that the government had
eliminated the most controversial part of its immigration bill, which is
designed to curtail illegal immigration from Arab and African countries.

Currently, people who wish to lodge foreign guests from those countries must
obtain permission from their local city hall. The original bill would also have
had them signal the departure of the foreign guests.

Visitors from the United States and most other industrialized countries are
exempt from the immigration rules.

For some, the controversial provision, which was removed last week after a group
of well-known French film directors said they would disobey it, was a reminder
of the World War II Vichy regime, when some French denounced Jews to the
government collaborating with the Nazis.

The call to civil disobedience against the immigration legislation has grown to
include intellectuals, celebrities and some judges. On Saturday, they were
joined by the bishop of Clermont-Ferrand, in central France.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacques Brinon, Associated Press
A man carries his daughter on his shoulder during a demonstration
Saturday in Paris to protest a new immigration bill that opponents
claim blames foreigners as scapegoats for French ills. Despite
last-minute changes watering down the bill, the protest took on a life
of its own.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 26, 1997 Thursday

AUTOMATIC CITIZENSHIP ASSAILED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 53 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Seeking to slow illegal immigration, a California lawmaker proposed denying
citizenship to U.S.-born babies of illegal immigrants. Critics of the proposal,
unveiled at a House immigration subcommittee hearing Wednesday by Rep. Brian
Bilbray, R-Calif., termed it unconstitutional and an attack on civil liberties.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 30, 1997 Saturday

DEPORTED ILLEGAL ALIENS INCREASE

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of illegal aliens ejected from the country this year is nearly 50
percent higher than at the same time last year - thanks in part to tougher
immigration rules Congress passed in 1996. Preliminary figures show that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service deported 75,743 during the nine-month
period that ended June 30, 49.3 percent more than the 50,714 thrown out of the
country during the same period in 1996. About 40 percent - or 13,121 - of the
32,279 deported from April through June had criminal records. The numbers don't
include 57,000 aliens who left voluntarily.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 20, 1998 Friday

IMMIGRATION RAIDS DETAILED

SECTION: METRO; REGIONAL BRIEFING; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 155 words

DATELINE: WORTHINGTON, MINN.


Immigration officials say they have arrested dozens of illegal residents in
Worthington, Windom and Sioux Falls, S.D.

With the help of management at the Swift hog-packing plant in Worthington,
agents arrested 21 Mexicans, three Guatemalans and one Nicaraguan, a spokesman
with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

Spokesman Curtis Aljets said those arrests began Monday and were made at the
plant and at two homes in Worthington.

The INS raided John Morrell and Co. in Sioux Falls on Monday and arrested 16
illegal immigrants.

Another 18, all Mexicans, were arrested Wednesday at the Caldwell packing plant
in Windom.

Aljets said the raids were conducted on a tip that the workers had false U.S.
citizenship documents or were illegal immigrants.

Some of the workers will be voluntarily returned to Mexico and some have been
referred to Worthington authorities for prosecution, Aljets said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 11, 2000 Tuesday

INS MUST FREE SOME PRISONERS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 100 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Hundreds of illegal immigrants in nine Western states who have completed prison
terms for crimes in this country must be freed until the United States can
persuade their homelands to take them back, a federal appeals court ruled
Monday. In a 3-0 ruling, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejected
immigration officials' arguments that federal law authorizes indefinite jailing
of illegal immigrants whose native countries have no repatriation pact with the
United States. The ruling will probably be appealed, said Bill Strassberger, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 26, 2000 Wednesday

INS TO LET HOTEL WORKERS STAY;
7 OF 8 NAMED IN DEPORTATION CASE MAY REMAIN IN U.S. FOR 2 YEARS

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 713 words


Seven of eight illegal immigrants who were fired in October by the Holiday Inn
Express in Minneapolis after trying organize a union will be allowed to remain
in the United States for two years rather than be deported.

After weeks of nearly round-the-clock negotiations, lawyers for the former hotel
workers and the Immigration and Naturalization Service reached an agreement just
before a deportation hearing Tuesday in Bloomington.

When the agreement was announced outside the immigration court, more than 100
supporters of the workers, including labor organizers and religious figures,
waved American and Mexican flags, hoisted union banners and cheered in English
and Spanish with shouts of "Viva!" and "Si, se puede" - "Yes, we can!"

"I'm very pleased and I thank everyone here and thank you all for your support,"
Evertina Albino, 29, one of the eight workers said through a translator.

National labor leaders also hailed the agreement that protects the seven people
from deportation for two years and allows them to work as long as they break no
laws.

"This decision sends an important message to immigrant workers at every level of
the economy that if you stand up for your rights you will be backed up not only
by the community and your union but also by the justice system," said Linda
Chavez-Thompson, AFL-CIO executive vice president.

The workers, all from Mexico, were detained Oct. 13, 1999, after the hotel
manager notified the INS that they were in the country illegally. The workers
were arrested during a union organizing campaign, and they alleged they were
singled out for their union activities.

After their arrests, the National Labor Relations Board and the U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission both investigated the hotel's actions, and in
a landmark settlement, the Holiday Inn Express in January paid each worker
$8,000 for alleged workplace abuses. It was the first time the federal
government had enforced antidiscrimination laws for undocumented workers.

Both the labor board and employment commission as well as the special counsel in
the U.S. Department of Justice, which oversees the INS, then lobbied the INS St.
Paul office on behalf of the workers in an effort to allow them to stay.

"I would like to emphasize that this is a highly unusual set of circumstances
and this agreement does not establish a precedent," said INS District Director
Curtis J. Aljets.

There is no law that allows the seven to stay permanently unless Congress makes
changes within the next two years, Aljets said. Normally, illegal immigrants who
help in the investigation or prosecution of criminal cases are granted temporary
visas as a reward, but there is no such leeway allowed for workers who help out
in civil lawsuits, he said.

The agreement allows the workers to support their families and get their affairs
in order, officials said.

An eighth worker involved, Amado Flores, 21, was not allowed to stay because he
had been previously deported from the United States and illegally returned. He
is expected to be returned to Mexico next month.

But for the other seven - Evertina Albino, Rosa Albino, 19, Estela Albino, 28,
Reyna Albino, 25, Bulfrano Albino, 19, Bruna Alvarez, age unknown, and Norma
Lerma Del Toro, 29 - the agreement was something to be savored, at least for the
moment. Rosa, Estela and Evertina are sisters and the cousins of Bulfrano and
Reyna.

"If these two years go by and I am able to work, I will work hard for myself and
especially for my parents in Mexico," said Rosa Albino, who along with the
others regularly sent money to Mexico to support their families.

Minnesota AFL-CIO President Bernard Brommer was pleased with the outcome but
added labor and others will seek changes in the law. "It's broken and needs to
be repaired," he said.

Although there are a handful of bills pending in Congress, none to date may help
the workers in this particular case.

"This case sends a clear message to employers that the workplace must remain
free of discrimination," said Jorge Saavedra F., one of the lawyers for the
eight workers and chief counsel for Centro Legal, a St. Paul-based legal
organization.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or (651)
228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: DAWN VILLELLA, PIONEER PRESS
Bruna Alvarez and her 2-year-old daughter Delia are congratulated by
Local 17 Union Principal Officer Jaye Rynkunk, left, after an
agreement was struck allowing Alvarez and six Holiday Inn Express
co-workers to stay in the United States for two years.
A Local 17 Union supporter congratulates Evertina Albino and her
sisters Rosa and Estela on Tuesday ruled the illegal immigrants could
stay in the United States.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 9, 1998 Friday

INS NABS 3 SUSPECTS FOR LACK OF DOCUMENTS;
OFFICE CLEANERS ARRESTED JUST AFTER RAID ON COSSETTA'S

BYLINE: Blake Morrison, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 650 words


By the time cleaning crews arrive at the Bloomington office complex housing the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, most INS agents have long since
gone home.

But because of a Tuesday raid at Cossetta Italian Market & Pizzeria in St. Paul,
agents working late say they were able to nab three undocumented workers
assigned to clean offices in a building near their own.

Officials said the arrest of the three, just yards from the local INS
headquarters, underscores the extent of illegal labor in Minnesota. It came only
hours after INS agents had collared 23 workers employed by Cossetta.

By Thursday, two of the three custodial workers and 18 of the Cossetta workers
already had been flown back to Mexico, and removal hearings will be scheduled
for the others.

"It isn't the only time" undocumented workers have been arrested near INS
offices, said Curtis Aljets, INS district director. "And that kind of shows how
prevalent that is."

Aljets said Thursday the cleaning crew is not employed by the INS and the
workers did not have access to INS offices. They were employed by Marsden
Building Maintenance, a St. Paul-based custodial firm that just Wednesday turned
over the names of nine prospective employees to the INS. The nine, attending a
training workshop, were turned in because they didn't have proper documents,
said Guy Mingo, Marsden president.

"We employ a lot of people, and it's more difficult to identify a fake resident
alien card because it depends on the quality of who is making the thing," said
Mingo, whose company employs about 3,000 workers. Mingo said the three workers
arrested this week had provided documents when they were offered jobs and "the
belief at the time of hire was that they were legal. But the belief now is that
they were fraudulent."

Still, despite a quadrupling in arrests of illegal workers by the local INS
office during the 1990s, the numbers here pale in comparison to the record in
southwestern states.

INS spokesman Tim Counts said 768 undocumented people were arrested in
Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota workplaces last year, compared with 406
in 1993, when the local INS office started keeping separate statistics for the
three states. Many of those detained were Mexican nationals.

And with large numbers of low-skill jobs to fill, the restaurant and lodging
industries are prime targets for undocumented workers, INS and hospitality
officials said.

"Any service industry paying hourly jobs has this problem. People know this is a
pretty fertile place for jobs," said Arnold Hughes, president of the statewide
trade group Hospitality Minnesota

The organization sends its 4,000 members simple, basic advice on the topic:
"Don't hire anyone if they don't have documentation," Hughes said. "But if
people are using fraudulent documents that look real, what are you going to do?"

Others worry that INS efforts, such as the raid at Cossetta, only serve to
reinforce negative images of immigrants.

"The point is, every time a raid happens ...the stereotype that all immigrants
are undocumented is perpetuated," said Luz Maria Frias, chief legal officer for
Centro Legal, a St. Paul-based non-profit law office serving indigent members of
the state's Latino community. "But there are many immigrants here who contribute
to the local economy."

INS officials say the investigation into the illegal workers at Cossetta is
continuing. Although officials say the company likely will be fined, they would
not say how much.

Meanwhile, at the restaurant, a short-staffed work crew is trying to keep the
pizza and pasta ready for customers.

"Right now, we're all working harder and longer hours," said Chris Jirovec,
manager of the restaurant. Since the Tuesday raid, he said he had hired six new
workers. But "it will be months before we recover."
This story includes information from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 20, 1999 Saturday

IMMIGRATION SERVICE SCANS MEGAMALL FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS;
LINKS TO MALL VIOLENCE PROMPT BROAD AUDIT

BYLINE: Amy Mayron, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 886 words


Reacting to recent violence involving illegal immigrant workers at the Mall of
America, federal Immigration and Naturalization Service agents are conducting an
audit of all mall employees.

Agents say they expect to make arrests soon and estimate that up to 1,500
employees at the mall could be illegal immigrants. They have found 87 illegal
employees at one mall business, but no arrests have yet been carried out, said
Supervisory Special Agent Chuck Midby, who would not reveal the name of the
business.

"The more you can manage that population of illegal immigrants, the more you can
eliminate the criminal activity that comes with it," he said.

Of the 10,000 employees at the mall, about 2,000 are immigrants, and only about
500 have valid green cards, Midby estimated.

A man arrested in connection with a December shooting was an illegal immigrant
working at Cafe Odyssey, and he was charged with possessing crack cocaine. Two
other people who were later arrested were also illegal immigrants working at the
mall, Midby said. He said he could not recall where they were working.

So far, INS does not hold the mall or its businesses liable for the illegal
employees. Agents believe the problem stems from inadequate training of business
managers to identify fake green cards.

INS agents are asking all mall employers to turn over their employees'
paperwork. Illegal cases involve fake green cards, which can be difficult to
spot if managers don't know what to look for, Midby said. Green cards serve as
identification allowing legal immigrants to work in the United States.

INS has conducted two-hour training sessions with most mall managers to tell
them how to spot false cards.

When the INS finds a worker in the country illegally, it can arrest and deport
that person. But Midby said 1,000 or more arrests can be impractical for a small
regional office such as the one in the Twin Cities. So agents are evaluating
each case as they go along and will likely make arrests, either at once or on a
case-by-case basis, he said.

Midby would not say when arrests would be made or how many the agency expects to
carry out.

While the mall has been in the public eye for its recent problems with violence
- a shooting in December and a stabbing earlier this month - its problems are
not unique, Midby said. Malls, restaurants, industrial businesses and hotels and
motels all have similar problems and often have them on the same scale, he said.

Minnesota employers polled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis last fall
said their chief concern for 1999 was finding enough workers. More precisely,
say some employers, their challenge is finding employees at the right price.

Minnesota, particularly the Twin Cities, has one of the tightest job markets in
the country.

The state's unemployment rate was 2.5 percent in December, compared to the U.S.
rate of 4.3 percent. In the Twin Cities, the unemployment rate has been below 2
percent in recent months, a level economists consider full employment.

Tim Breen, manager of Hooters, said on Friday the INS used to simply ask
businesses to keep accurate paperwork and leave it to federal officers to spot
fake cards. Now, he said, the INS has shifted and asked businesses to take a
more active role in spotting the fakes and to call the INS to check potential
employees.

"I'm sure every one of us has them," Breen said. His restaurant has 90
employees, 10 to 15 of whom are immigrants with green cards, he said.

On Friday restaurant managers did not seem put off by the audit and welcomed the
added training for their managers. Some believe INS should get involved earlier
to prevent violence. Others said there's not much they can do to identify fake
green cards, and it should be INS's responsibility to catch illegal employees.

Several managers have now developed a policy of checking with INS on all
immigrants for their status before they will be hired.

Mark Potter, director of U.S. Operations for Elephant and Castle International
Inc., which runs the Alamo Grill, said his managers scrutinize every green card
presented to them. Only a few of about 50 of his employees are immigrants, he
said.

"If INS is making accusations and if they were aware of illegal employees, they
should have done something before the shooting," Potter said. "Why are they
being reactive?"

How to spot a fake green card
*Pictures on valid green cards (such as the sample card at top) are digital
images superimposed on the paper inside the lamination. Fakes (such as the
confiscated forgery below it) often show distinct cutout marks where people have
inserted their own photos.
*The seal on a valid card will be very clear and every detail, including small
arrows in the center image, will be easy to see. The seal may overlap the
picture, and a discriminating eye can see the photo or other information beneath
the seal's lines. A fake seal will not be clear and will rarely touch the
picture.
*The red, white and blue rainbow effect on the back of a valid card shows a
gradual fading of the colors. A fake card will have a distinct line where the
red turns to blue. In some cases, the red and blue overlap, which is never the
case on a real card.
Amy Mayron can be reached at amayron@pioneerpress.com or at (612) 338-6872.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version appeared in City Edition on Page 1B.

GRAPHIC: Photo
Midby
Photo: Scott Goihl, Pioneer Press
Louis Humberto Guerra is a legal alien of Mexican descent who has been
working at Hooters in the Mall of America for five years. Other mall
employees, however, may be in the United States with false
credentials.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 12, 1999 Monday

INS HAS TUNNEL VISION, BLIND TO ECONOMIC REALITIES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Sandy M. Fernandez, Commentator; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 609 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is flexing its muscles again. But its
strong-arm tactics won't work.

In February, the INS launched a series of raids on the fruit-packing houses of
central Washington state's Yakima Valley. But rather than chase people down, the
agents went after paper. They combed the packing houses and asked to see
documentation of employee work papers. They identified forgeries and demanded
that the employers either fire those workers or face stiff fines. When the raids
were over, they had displaced close to 600 illegal workers - mostly Mexican. It
was one of the single biggest sweeps the INS has conducted in the Northwest.

Raids of this type have become the agency's favorite weapon against illegal
workers residing north of the border states. INS agents have fired hotel workers
in Florida, meatpackers in Nebraska and restaurant employees in Seattle, among
other places. While the traditional nab-and-deport raid collars, on average, 50
to 60 workers a stop, the administrative raid can target hundreds. And, because
it does not obligate the agency to hold or transport the captured workers, it is
far cheaper. INS sources say that if these immigrants are deprived of work, they
will go home again.

Unfortunately, this "interior enforcement program" relies on a picture of
illegal immigrants that is outdated and biased. These workers are not the
single-issue economic opportunists that the agency says it is shooing away by -
as they say in pest control - removing the food source.

These immigrants are linked to the places they inhabit. Many of them have held
their jobs for years. They live in communities with friends, family and spouses.
Many of their children were born in the United States. Some of those children
are now in high school. For many parents, the choice between uprooting their own
kids from the only country they've ever known or defying the INS is no choice at
all. They'll choose to scramble and eke out a living, no matter how meager.

Yakima Valley fruit growers have no illusions about their fired workers going
"home." The INS claims that these employers are being fooled by unscrupulous,
scheming aliens with ever-improving fake documents, but the fruit industry
itself acknowledges a reliance on undocumented labor.

Who else, especially in these booming economic times, would consent to pick or
pack fruit for poverty wages? And who else would work in slaughterhouses or bus
tables at the going industry rates?

There are reasons immigrants are doing this work. Yet INS policy ignores these
complex economic realities. Instead, it seems to believe that without
undocumented workers, Americans would rush to these jobs. It also seems to
believe that jobless mothers and fathers will pack up their broods and return to
countries that many of them have not seen in years.

For the next few months, things will be tough in Yakima Valley. Most of those
dismissed have vowed to stay on, looking for new work at smaller orchards and
factories, which are less likely to be targeted. The workers can't claim
welfare, unemployment or medical benefits, but they can get government
assistance for their U.S.-born children. That area does not have the resources,
though, to provide for all the families left without means of supporting
themselves.

It would be nice if someday INS policy matched the reality of today's
international economy.

Fernandez is the articles editor of Latina magazine in New York. Write her in
care of the Progressive Media Project at pmproj@progressive.org or at 409 E.
Main St., Madison, Wis. 53703. Distributed for the project by KRT News Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 20, 1999 Wednesday

LABOR UNION TO POST BAIL FOR 6 IMMIGRANT WORKERS;
HOTEL EMPLOYEES TURNED IN LAST WEEK FACE DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Mike Hughlett, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 285 words


Six illegal immigrants were slated to be bailed out of jail Thursday evening by
their labor union, avoiding immediate deportation from Minnesota to Mexico.

All six will eventually face deportation hearings. But in the meantime, they
will participate in an inquiry about whether their Minneapolis employer turned
them in to the Immigration and Naturalization Service because of their union
involvement.

The Holiday Inn Express in downtown Minneapolis last week informed the INS that
it suspected that eight of its workers - roughly half its work force - were
illegal immigrants. The INS found that to be the case and immediately detained
six in local jails. The other two were allowed to stay temporarily in the United
States because they have minor children. They will eventually face deportation
hearings, too.

Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union Local 17 told the INS Tuesday
that it planned to post a $3,000 bond for each of the six jailed workers, four
women and two men. The union claims the eight workers were turned over to the
INS because they were strong union supporters. Several were on the union's
contract negotiating committee at the hotel.

The Holiday Inn Express was unionized in August, and management and Local 17
were slated to begin their first contract negotiation in early November.

The union filed an unfair labor practice complaint Friday with the National
Labor Relations Board, claiming the hotel retaliated against the workers for
their union activity. An NLRB official in Minneapolis said he hopes to have a
decision in about a month.

Mike Hughlett, who covers economics and labor, can be reached at
mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5428

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 6, 2000 Thursday

HOTEL MAY SETTLE CASE WITH EEOC

BYLINE: Mike Hughlett Staff writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 383 words


A downtown Minneapolis hotel is on the verge of settling at least one complaint
before a federal agency, and possibly a second, stemming from its termination in
October of eight illegal immigrant workers, people familiar with the situation
said Wednesday.

The Holiday Inn Express fired the eight workers, all from Mexico, after
discovering they were illegal immigrants. They are currently awaiting
deportation hearings.

The workers' union, Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Local 17, filed an
unfair-labor practices complaint against the hotel with the National Labor
Relations Board. The union claimed that the Holiday Inn turned the workers over
to immigration authorities in retaliation for their union activity, an
accusation the company has denied.

A settlement is expected to be announced as early as today.

In addition, the federal Equal Opportunity Employment Commission, which
investigates claims of discrimination, also has been looking into the firings,
according to the sources. The EEOC doesn't normally disclose its investigations
until they result in settlements or lawsuits. The Holiday Inn and the EEOC
declined to comment.

The company and the EEOC apparently are on the verge of a settlement, which also
could be announced today, according to the sources.

If they reach an agreement, it would be one of the first tests of a major policy
shift unveiled by the EEOC last fall.

The commission said at the time that it would provide undocumented workers with
more protections against workplace abuse. Previously, the EEOC argued that it
had limited responsibilities for workers who were in the United States
illegally.

Thus, any EEOC case against the Holiday Inn "could be either a landmark or a
land mine," said Marshall Tanick, a Twin Cities attorney who practices
employment law.

The 96-room Holiday Inn Express was unionized in August and was scheduled to
begin contract negotiations in November. The union's negotiating committee
included several of the fired workers.

The case has become a rallying point for organized labor, particularly since the
hotel and restaurant industry is apparently a heavy user of illegal immigrant
labor. Mike Hughlett, who covers economics and labor, can be reached at
mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5428.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 17, 2000 Thursday

AFL-CIO PANEL AGREES TO SUPPORT AMNESTY FOR ILLEGAL WORKERS;
UNIONS NOW RECRUIT IMMIGRANTS AS ALLIES, NO LONGER SEE THREAT

BYLINE: ALICE ANN LOVE, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS


AFL-CIO leaders shifted their stance toward immigrants Wednesday and called for
the repeal of a 1986 law they say has made it hard to unionize or improve
conditions for undocumented workers.

The labor federation's governing committee unanimously agreed to the new policy,
which also commits unions to press for amnesty for the estimated 5 million to 6
million workers and their families who are here illegally or have only temporary
legal status.

"With this resolution, the AFL-CIO proudly stands on the side of immigrant
workers," said AFL-CIO executive vice president Linda Chavez-Thompson.

"The current system of immigration enforcement in the United States is broken,
and we must fix it. We believe the AFL-CIO can lead on this issue," said.

Labor leaders said the policy recognizes new labor market realities. Unions are
now actively recruiting immigrants who in the past had been kept at arm's length
because they were seen as a threat to Americans' jobs.

"Employers are saying they're desperate for workers, and there are workers in
this country who have no way to get legal status despite the fact that they're
going to work every day," said Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees
International Union.

The AFL-CIO is still committed to opposing increases in the number of immigrants
allowed to come here to work legally.

But the labor federation is calling for new immigration laws that would protect
those already in the United States working illegally from firing or deportation
if they try to unionize or complain to the government about violations of labor
laws, including the minimum wage and safety requirements.

The AFL-CIO wants the new rules to replace a law passed in 1986 that set up the
current system of enforcing immigration laws through employers, holding over
companies the threat of punishment if they hire undocumented workers.

Unions originally supported that law, believing it would serve their interest in
keeping American jobs for American citizens.

Now, that stance has backfired.

With the unemployment rate the lowest in 30 years and employers scrambling to
find help, a wave of undocumented workers are filling jobs that Americans don't
want - janitors and meat cutters, in hotels and restaurants, on farms and in
clothing factories.

Unions have begun to recognize these immigrant workers, who are easily exploited
by companies because of their illegal status, as good prospects to boost the
ranks of organized labor.

But organizing has been difficult because, labor leaders say, companies - even
those that have been complicit in hiring undocumented workers in the first place
- react by using the worker's illegal status for intimidation or grounds for
firing.

In Minnesota, nine Holiday Inn workers who were trying to organize under the
Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union recently won
$72,000 in back pay through a federal complaint process after they lost their
jobs when the company turned them in to immigration officials. The nine,
however, still face deportation to Mexico.

Labor Secretary Alexis Herman, who met with the AFL-CIO leaders Wednesday, said
she did not make any commitments but told them that the Clinton administration
would consider their proposals, including the amnesty request.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 26, 2000 Sunday

RALLYING FOR REPRESENTATION;
RECENT U.S. IMMIGRANTS HAVE BEEN SLOW TO EMBRACE LABOR UNIONS, AND VICE VERSA.
ORGANIZERS LIKE URIEL PEREZ ARE WORKING TO OVERCOME THE OBSTACLES THAT LEAVE
MANY IMMIGRANT WORKERS UNREPRESENTED.

BYLINE: Mike Hughlett Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 2040 words


Organized labor has essentially admitted it: Without people like Uriel Perez
Espinoza, unions can't succeed in being a significant voice for American
workers.
Perez was originally one of the thousands of illegal immigrants who keep the
Twin Cities hotel business humming. Now he's an organizer for Minneapolis-based
Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Local 17.

The hotel workers union has been a local leader in trying to organize immigrants
and better meet the needs of its immigrant members. It was one of the first Twin
Cities unions to hire a full-time Spanish-speaking organizer and translator -
Perez - in order to better communicate with Hispanic members and potential
recruits. And it has met some success in organizing immigrants from several
ethnic groups.

Local 17's actions sounds like a no-brainer for any labor union: adapt or
atrophy. But it's not that simple.

First, a significant number of recent Hispanic immigrants - whether they're
cleaning hotels or office buildings or working in restaurants or factories - are
illegal aliens who fear the ultimate retribution, deportation, for union
sympathies. Second, organized labor has largely been suspicious of the late
20th-century boom in U.S. immigration, and changing prevailing internal union
attitudes and practices toward immigrant workers doesn't always come easy.

Labor officially made a turnaround last month when the AFL-CIO, the umbrella
group for most U.S. unions, changed its tune on federal immigration policy and
demanded blanket amnesty for undocumented immigrants. The announcement was
particularly newsworthy because just 14 years ago, the AFL-CIO supported
get-tough federal immigration legislation - a law that has actually made it
harder for unions to represent immigrants.

Of course, when that 1986 law was passed, organized labor wasn't even halfway
through the slide that would eventually sap its power over the last quarter of
the 20th century. To reverse that slide, unions need to win over immigrants,
some labor experts say.

"The unions themselves have become shrinking islands," said Peter Rachleff, a
labor activist and history professor at Macalester College in St. Paul. "If they
are going to reverse their own declines, they are going to have to organize
immigrants."

Fear of deportation

Hotel workers Local 17 figured that out a few years ago as the demographics of
its ranks changed. Increasingly, its newest members were recent arrivals from
eastern Europe, Africa, east Asia and Central America, particularly Mexico. Now,
the union, which has about 5,000 members, finds that at least 15 percent to 30
percent of the workers at most Twin Cities hotels are recent immigrants.

Uriel Perez worked at several of those hotels after arriving in the Twin Cities
in 1989. Cleaning rooms and busing tables wasn't part of his original training.
He got a college degree in philosophy and later studied child psychology in his
hometown of Puebla, about 80 miles southeast of Mexico City. But after working
as a low-paid teacher - and seeing little opportunity for advancement - he came
to the United States, originally settling in Los Angeles and working in the
hospitality trade.

After a couple of years there, Perez lit out for the Twin Cities, largely
because he felt he could earn more money here and learn English faster in a
metro area with a considerably lower concentration of Spanish-speaking
residents. Perez's story has since been repeated many times over: Relatively
high pay and a relatively low cost of living in the Twin Cities continue to help
lure Hispanic workers in southern California and elsewhere.

Perez had originally entered the country on a tourist visa, but stayed beyond
its expiration. Like tens of thousands of undocumented workers, he settled in
the U.S., got married, bought a house and had children (two in Perez's case).
But the Immigration and Naturalization Service caught up with him in 1994.

Perez argued he was eligible for amnesty under the 1986 immigration law, but the
INS disagreed and, after a lengthy struggle, ordered him to leave in 1997. By
then he was working for the hotel workers union, which interceded on his behalf,
sponsoring Perez for an H1-B visa - a hard-to-get temporary residency permit for
professional workers with college backgrounds.

For Local 17, Perez was deemed essential: He was a dedicated, Spanish-speaking
union member who had first-hand knowledge of the immigrant experience.

"You need to get over cultural and language barriers to tell workers what their
rights are under the law," said Jaye Rykunyk, Local 17's principal officer.
"That is where you make or break your union organizing ability."

Local 17's ability to communicate in Spanish was a critical element in
organizing the Holiday Inn Express in downtown Minneapolis last August. A
majority of the hotel's 22 workers were Mexican immigrants.

The Holiday Inn campaign was a small one, but one that amply demonstrated a
dilemma in organizing some immigrants: the precarious position of undocumented
workers, most of whom (in the Twin Cities, at least) are from Mexico. Legally,
they're supposed to be afforded the same rights in the workplace as U.S.
citizens. But legally, they're not supposed to be in the U.S. in the first
place.

It's not clear how many illegal immigrants are working in the Twin Cities, but
estimates peg the number at anywhere from 7,000 to 30,000. They play a
significant economic role, buying as much as $310 million in goods and services
annually and filling jobs that might go unfilled in a metro area with an
ultra-low unemployment rate of about 2 percent, according to a 1999 study done
for two Twin Cities ecumenical religious groups.

Several illegal immigrants had apparently been working at the Holiday Inn
Express since it opened in April 1998. Last October, the hotel's management
turned over eight undocumented Mexican housekeepers to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Most were from the same family, the Albinos, and all
were strong supporters of the union.

Local 17 protested to the National Labor Relations Board, claiming the Holiday
Inn retaliated against the workers for their union support. The federal Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission later filed a discrimination suit against the
hotel.

The Holiday Inn Express denied the charges, saying it feared fines from the INS
if it didn't report the workers. The company settled with the EEOC and the NLRB
in January, agreeing to pay $72,000 to the Mexican workers it had terminated.
The case marked the first time the EEOC had made good on a 1999 pledge to
protect undocumented workers against workplace abuse.

But while the Holiday Inn workers won the battle, they will likely lose the
proverbial war. They're still slated to be deported, though the union and other
groups are fighting to keep them here.

Their fate is exactly what undocumented workers fear most if they side with a
union.

Perez and hotel union organizers are well aware of the problem. They say they
don't ask potential recruits about their legal status. But if undocumented
workers bring up the subject, Perez says immigrants are warned that the union
can't save them from deportation.

"I'll tell them, 'If you want to improve yourselves, you'll have to take the
risk,"' he said. "I'll tell them, 'You are undocumented, but you still have
rights."'

Fears of deportation also keep undocumented workers from pressing workplace
grievances with their employers or federal regulators, union officials say.

"Workers will take their lumps before filing for wage and hour violations," said
Bill Klinsing, business representative for Minneapolis-based Service Employees
International Union Local 26, which represents janitors in commercial buildings.

SEIU Local 26 has also been adapting to changing demographics. Approximately 40
percent of its roughly 4,000 members are immigrants, with Hispanics making up
the biggest percentage. So, about year ago, SEIU Local 26 hired a Mexican
immigrant - Uriel Perez's younger brother Mariano - to serve as a full-time
translator and organizer.

Labor barriers

Hiring non-English speaking organizers and publishing union literature in
foreign languages isn't exactly new. Labor has a long tradition of organizing
immigrants. Of course, organized labor also has a long tradition of being
anti-immigrant. Yes, it's a paradox, one summed up by labor historian Rachleff
as the struggle between two competing union world views.

The "exclusionary" view prevailed during the first 30 years of the 20th century.
For example, unions affiliated with the dominant American Federation of Labor
(AFL) did little to organize northeastern Minnesota's rapidly growing ranks of
miners, many of whom hailed from southern and eastern Europe.

When the miners walked out en masse in 1916, it was the radical - and
immigrant-friendly - Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) that led the strike.
The miners lost, and the IWW was crippled by a federal government crackdown. But
by the mid-1930s, the "inclusionary" spirit of the IWW had become the norm in
the great organizing drives by new unions affiliated with the Congress of
Industrial Organizations (CIO).

The 1980s tended to be another exclusionary period, as foreign competition
helped sap U.S. industries that were union strongholds, Rachleff said. Now,
unions are again reaching out to immigrants. "The question is, are they doing it
fast enough and seriously enough?" he said.

Unions have plenty of internal barriers in their quest.

The idea that immigrants poach American jobs is a long-standing fear among
rank-and-file union members, said Richard Metcalf, Midwest regional
secretary-treasurer for the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile
Workers, which has a long history of aggressively organizing immigrants.

Another problem: Some native-born union members may hold ethnocentric views of
immigrants, reflecting a larger and more entrenched societal problem, Metcalf
said.

Organizing and servicing non-English speaking workers can also take a toll on
union resources and challenge internal union management strategies. "Internally,
it's something unions are just catching up to," Metcalf said.

Bill Pearson, president of South St. Paul-based United Food and Commercial
Workers Local 789, knows the problem well.

He's toyed with hiring a Spanish-speaking organizer, but isn't sure that adding
a new position just for that reason is a cost-effective move. After all, Spanish
speakers compose only about 3 percent of his local's membership of 7,400, and
its most fertile organizing territory - the nursing home industry - requires
that workers speak English.

But Hispanic immigrants compose up to 60 percent of the UFCW's membership at
Long Prairie Packing - a percentage that has been growing rapidly.

UFCW 789 has particularly had trouble recruiting bilingual stewards for the
central Minnesota meat plant's killing floor. It occasionally succeeds - only to
see its latest steward leave meatpacking for another vocation, a natural result
of Minnesota's opportunity-laden economic boom

During recent contract negotiations at Long Prairie, Local 789's parent union
sent in a bilingual representative to help with translation. The international
rep had some bad news for Pearson: The Latino workers at Long Prairie Packing
felt the union wasn't doing enough for them. "It just kills me when somebody
says, 'You don't represent us very well,"' Pearson said.

IMMIGRATION FACTS
Minnesota's foreign-born population is estimated to have risen at least 50
percent in the 1990s.

With growing immigration, an estimated 15 percent of Minnesota's population will
be minorities in 2025, compared with 9 percent now.

Minnesota's Hispanic population is estimated to have grown 61.3 percent from
1990 to 1998.

The nation's overall Spanish-speaking population rose 35 percent from 1990 to
1998.

Roughly 7,000 to 30,000 undocumented workers are estimated to be working in
Minnesota.

Source: Minnesota demographers office; U.S. Census Bureau; Pioneer Press
research.

Mike Hughlett, who covers economics and labor, can be reached at
mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5428.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: CRAIG BORCK, PIONEER PRESS
1) Unions are increasingly embracing the idea of organizing
immigrants, and the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Local 17
has been particularly aggressive in doing so. Uriel Perez (in blue
shirt), an immigrant and one of the union's organizers, chats with
employees of the Marquette Hotel in Minneapolis during their lunch
break. Watching on the left is union president William S. McCarthy.
The employees are Esperanza Ortiz, Carlos Friere, Blanca Velez and
Maria Jara.
2) Local union organizer Uriel Perez is well aware of the fear of
deportation held by many immigrant laborers: He was nearly deported in
1997 for being an undocumented worker. Here he meets with employees of
the Marquette Hotel in Minneapolis during their lunch break.
Photo: SCOTT TAKUSHI, PIONEER PRESS
A local court case recently illustrated the plight of immigrant
workers. Last October, nine undocumented employees at the Holiday Inn
Express in Minneapolis were fired and turned over to the Immigration
and Naturalization Service after they tried to organize. Holiday Inn
later agreed to a settlement, but the workers may still be deported.
Four of them are (left to right) Rosa Albino, Evertina Albino, Reyna
Albino and Estela Albino.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  August 21, 1996 Wednesday WISCONSIN EDITION

SEVENTY-SIX SUSPECTED ILLEGAL ALIENS ROUNDED UP AT MEATPACKING PLANT

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: GREEN BAY, Wis.


Seventy-six suspected illegal aliens were rounded up Tuesday at the American
Foods Group plant here, where they worked as meatpackers, officials said.

Roger Lindo of Milwaukee, agent in charge of the district Immigration and
Naturalization Service office, said 68 men and eight women had been working with
false papers.

"The majority are Mexicans," he said. "If they are willing to go voluntarily,
they will be put on vans and taken to the southern U.S. border.

"If they are of other nationalities, they will be taken in custody to Chicago
and arrangements made to take them to the country of their nationality. If they
do not wish to leave voluntarily, they will be placed in deportation
proceedings."

The move came less than two weeks after American Foods announced it would join a
pilot program in conjunction with the immigration service. The program is
designed to help employers verify immigrants' job eligibility.

The company's chief executive officer, Carl Kuehne, said he understood the INS
was looking for forged birth certificates.

"The problem is in forged documentation," said American Foods spokesman Pat
Krohlow. "If (papers) appear to be reasonably genuine and relate to the person
offering them as identification, you have to accept them."

It is discriminatory to question an applicant further if his or her papers
appear true and represent the bearer, he said.

"We value them as good employees," Kuehne said of those rounded up by the INS.
"However, their eagerness to work in this country and earn good wages has
apparently tempted them to obtain fraudulent documents."

Kuehne said the raid disrupted American Foods production Tuesday. The plant
normally slaughters 1,500 head of cattle daily.

"We would think that within a day or two we will be back at full production,"
Kuehne said. "Obviously we're going to be hiring some more people and asking for
some volunteers from other shifts."

American Foods, which was formerly known as Green Bay Dressed Beef, has about
1,000 employees in Green Bay and another 900 or so in Huron and Mitchell, S.D.,
packing plants and seafood sales offices in Minneapolis-St. Paul and New York
City.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   August 30, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

ALIEN DEPORTATIONS INCREASE

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government has deported more illegal aliens this year than it did in all of
1995, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said Thursday. In the first 10
months of fiscal 1996, the INS sent an estimated 54,362 noncitizens out of the
country, 8 percent more than the 50,200 deported in fiscal 1995, INS General
Counsel David Martin said. Illegal aliens convicted of committing crimes in this
country made up 29,207 of the total. The rest - 25,155 - were noncriminal
deportations, aliens caught working at U.S. businesses, for example.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 October 30, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

INS SWEEP RESULTS IN 138 ARRESTS;
BAILEY NURSERIES RAID BREAKS RECORD FOR MINNESOTA JOB SITE

BYLINE: BYLINE: Chip Johnson, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 429 words


A Tuesday morning raid at farms owned by a Newport-based nursery resulted in the
arrest of 138 suspected illegal immigrants, the largest-ever action at a single
Minnesota job site, federal authorities said.

At about 6 a.m., more than 60 officers from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and U.S. Border Patrol descended on at least a half-dozen farms owned by
Bailey Nurseries in Woodbury, Hastings, Newport and Cottage Grove, authorities
said.

INS officials said most of the people arrested were Mexican nationals.

"What we did as an agency was audit employment eligibility forms, and determined
a number of inconsistencies," said Mark Camgeni, assistant director of the St.
Paul District office's investigative unit.

"We targeted 190 people and made 138 arrests," he said.

The workers will be detained while the INS begins scheduling deportation
hearings, Camgeni said.

Karen Ellingson, the managing attorney of Officina Legal, a St. Paul-based law
practice specializing in immigration services, said INS agents also visited the
Concord Square Apartments in St. Paul, apparently searching for illegal
immigrants.

Some of the undocumented workers will undoubtedly challenge the arrests and want
a deportation hearing, which can take up to eight months, Camgeni said. Others
who admit entering the country illegally could be flown back to Mexico as early
as today, he said.

The arrests are the culmination of a six-month investigation prompted by a
number of complaints against the company, one of the nation's largest wholesale
nurseries.

The investigation began during the spring planting season and concluded just
after most of the crops had been harvested, but INS officials said the timing
was a coincidence.

Company officials cooperated with the investigation and said they were duped by
workers who presented forged documents that identified them as legal residents.

Michael Davis, an attorney representing the company, said employers are caught
"between a rock and a hard place" when they are presented with phony documents.

If they unknowingly accept the false documents, they face fines and sanctions
from the federal government. If they refuse to accept what appears to be a
legitimate document, they can be sued for discrimination.

The INS is expected within weeks to test an identification program to help
employers sort out legal residents from undocumented workers, Davis said.

Meanwhile, the combination of Minnesota's labor shortage and its robust economy
may account for the growing number of illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 15, 1997 Wednesday

INS TO BOOST ENFORCEMENT

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 74 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With a record $3.1 billion budget, the nation's immigration service is
allocating $400 million in new money to deter illegal crossings along the
Southwest border and remove undocumented aliens from the country's interior. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service is using part of the money provided by
Congress to hire 2,000 new people - including 1,000 new Border Patrol agents and
350 inspectors at border crossings and airports.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 17, 1997 Friday

MORE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DEAD

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 63 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Six more Mexicans who illegally entered the United States by trekking through
the mountains have died of exposure, bringing the immigrant death toll to 13
this year, officials said Thursday. The search for six undocumented immigrants
stranded in the snow-covered Laguna Mountains ended Thursday with the discovery
of four bodies. The two other victims were found Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 8, 1997 Saturday

5 MILLION IMMIGRANTS LIVING ILLEGALLY IN U.S., GOVERNMENT ESTIMATES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Five million immigrants are living illegally in the United States, the federal
government said Friday, providing the first official estimate in four years of
the hard-to-count population.

Illegal aliens account for just under 2 percent of the U.S. population, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

"If there is one idea that comes out of looking at these numbers it is, as we
have said many, many times before, that over the past two decades or so the
country has had insufficient resources and attention to the illegal immigration
problem," said Robert Bach, INS executive associate commissioner. "And it has
accumulated to where it is now a large and substantial issue."

Bach pointed to major funding increases provided in recent years, which doubled
the INS budget since 1993, from $1.5 billion to $3.1 billion.

With more manpower, equipment and programs, the INS is deporting more people,
beefing up enforcement at the Southwest border and ensuring that fewer illegal
immigrants obtain work, he said.

"We have no reason to believe the problem is getting worse," Bach said. "In fact
we have every reason to believe ... that we are making significant progress."

Bach's view wasn't universally shared.

"It is a huge indictment of the ineffectiveness of our immigration service that
there are so many illegal aliens in this country," said Dan Stein, executive
director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Stein, a longtime critic of the INS and the Clinton administration's immigration
policies, accused the agency of focusing too little attention on enforcement
beyond the Southwest border.

With the undocumented immigrant population growing by an estimated 275,000
people a year - at a time when the INS is deporting fewer than 100,000 people
this year - Stein said: "The way the INS is going, it's like emptying a bathtub
with a teaspoon without turning off the faucet."

The illegal immigrant population is fairly close to what it was before passage
of a sweeping 1986 immigration law that gave amnesty, in the form of
citizenship, to nearly 3 million people who were here illegally. Prior to that,
depending on who is doing the counting, anywhere from 4.8 million to 6 million
people were here unlawfully.

The latest estimates, based largely on Census data, cover illegal immigrants who
live here at least a year, not those who slip in for a few days or months and
then return home.

About 40 percent of the illegal population lives in California, which together
with Texas, New York, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey and Arizona accounts for 83
percent of the illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 11, 1997 Tuesday

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT COUNT ADDED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 60 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


For the first time, the U.S. immigration service is tracking the number of
undocumented immigrants found inside the country who agree to leave without a
legal fight. While the Immigration and Naturalization Service long has released
statistics on illegal aliens barred from entry at the border and those it has
deported, it hadn't tracked voluntary removals.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 21, 1997 Saturday

BILL COULD PUT TROOPS ON BORDER

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 76 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Up to 10,000 U.S. troops could be stationed along the Mexican border to help
stop illegal immigration and drug trafficking under a measure approved Friday by
the House. The troops would be barred by law from making arrests and other civil
law enforcement activities, but could help the border patrol and Immigration and
Naturalization Service in inspections and detaining illegal aliens, said the
sponsor of the measure, Rep. Jim Traficant, D-Ohio, said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 17, 1997 Thursday

3 INDICTED IN SALE OF FALSE DOCUMENTS;
SOCIAL SECURITY, GREEN CARDS COST $110-$150 EACH

BYLINE: Charles Laszewski, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 361 words


Two brothers and a daughter of one of them were indicted Wednesday in connection
with an alleged scheme to produce false Social Security and registration cards
for illegal immigrants.

Filiberto Onofre-Espinoza, his brother Tirso Onofre-Espinoza and Tirso's
daughter, Iran Onofre, all of Minneapolis, were indicted by a U.S. grand jury
for making and selling the documents for $110 to $150 each and with unlawful
possession of five or more U.S. identification documents.

According to a criminal complaint filed earlier in the case, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service had received information since late last year that
Filiberto Onofre-Espinoza had been selling the documents out of his apartment at
3130 Pillsbury Ave. S.

The alien registration card, more popularly known as the green card, and the
Social Security cards, are necessary for legal aliens to stay in the United
States and to obtain jobs, now that employers are required to have proof that
their workers are in the country legally.

In April, an INS agent posing as an illegal alien knocked on Filiberto's
apartment door. When he received no answer, he knocked on the door of Onofre one
floor down, according to the criminal complaint. Onofre allegedly called her
uncle, who arrived a short time later and took the undercover agent to his
apartment. He also took a piece of paper from a drawer in his niece's apartment,
which turned out to be a blank green card.

Filiberto then asked the undercover agent what name and birth date he wanted on
the fake cards, had him sign the card and with an ink pad, had him put his
fingerprint on it, according to the criminal complaint. When the cards were all
done, the agent paid him $110, according to the complaint.

The numbers selected for the phony Social Security card were from a deceased
woman born in 1910 and the numbers on the green card happen to have been issued
to a woman born in 1962, according to the complaint.

On June 23, the undercover agent returned with two other agents he claimed were
members of his family. This time, Onofre and her father, Tirso Onofre-Espinoza,
allegedly did the work on the cards.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 12, 1997 Tuesday

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS RISK JOURNEY

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 80 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Nearly 1,200 people died between 1993 and 1996 trying to cross illegally into
the United States from Mexico, and the journey is getting riskier as authorities
plug the most common routes, according to a study released Monday. The study by
the University of Houston's Center for Immigration Research, titled "Death at
the Border," is the first to attempt to count the number of people who die
trying to cross the 1,600-mile boundary, said Nestor Rodriguez, the center's
director.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 27, 1997 Saturday

IMMIGRANTS GET EXTENSION TO APPLY FOR LEGAL STATUS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 88 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress will consider giving illegal immigrants three more weeks to take
advantage of a program that allows them to pay a $1,000 fine and stay in the
United States while seeking legal residence. Thousands have been in a panic over
Tuesday's scheduled expiration of a measure that lets undocumented immigrants
file here for legal status instead of at U.S. consulates abroad. The three-week
extension is included in a stopgap spending bill the House will consider Monday
to finance government operations through Oct. 23.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 31, 1997 Friday

111,000 DEPORTED FROM U.S., MANY WITH CRIMINAL RECORDS;
EXPEDITED REMOVAL PROCEDURE CREDITED WITH BOOSTING RESULTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government forced more than 111,000 illegal immigrants to leave the United
States in the past year, the largest number ever. Almost half had criminal
records.

Attorney General Janet Reno called it "a significant milestone." The
deportations and other removals eclipsed the old record of 69,000.

Reno told a news conference that with continued support from Congress for
expanded enforcement staff and more jails, "we can and will make America's
streets and communities safer by deporting criminal aliens."

Three-quarters of those expelled were from Mexico, El Salvador, Honduras and
Guatemala.

While complimentary of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's improved
performance in expelling undocumented immigrants, some agency observers
cautioned that the numbers remain modest.

An estimated 5 million foreigners are living illegally in the United States, and
their ranks swell by 275,000 each year.

"Certainly, the numbers are good news," said Rosemary Jenks of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which frequently criticizes the agency's enforcement. But
the deportations are "a very small drop in a huge bucket when you look at 5
million illegal immigrants living in this country."

The INS has been under growing pressure from Congress and governors from border
states to crack down on illegal immigration.

Last year, Congress passed a law carrying tougher penalties for illegal
immigrants and strengthening the INS' enforcement hand.

Nearly two-thirds of the 50,000 criminal aliens expelled had convictions for
aggravated felonies. In addition to murder and rape, that category includes
lesser crimes such as credit card fraud, assault, shoplifting and drug use. More
than 40 percent of the criminal aliens had drug convictions.

Noncriminal expulsions surged 93 percent over 1995, in part because of a
controversial provision in the new law that allows for speedier action with
fewer procedural hurdles.

The expedited removals procedure, still under challenge in federal court,
granted immigration officials new powers to turn away would-be immigrants and
asylum-seekers who arrive at U.S. ports without valid travel documents.

Of the 61,629 noncriminal removals last year, 23,000 were handled under the
expedited procedures.

The overall expulsion numbers, which reflect only cases in which INS obtained
removal orders, don't include the nearly 77,000 aliens who left the country
without formal deportation proceedings. Most chose to leave after they were
arrested.

Separately, the INS turned back 1.3 million other people trying to cross into
the United States without permission, mainly in the Desert Southwest.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 19, 1997 Friday

THREE CHARGED IN FAKE PAPERS FOR IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: METRO; MINNEAPOLIS BRIEFING; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 145 words


Three people arrested in Worthington, Minn., were charged in federal court
Thursday with selling phony documents to illegal immigrants.

Alejandro Gil-Navarro, his wife, Maria Gil and Joel Equeda-Moreno were arrested
by Worthington police and the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service at
their Worthington home Wednesday night. After a hearing Thursday, the men were
being detained until another hearing next week. The woman was released on a
$25,000 unsecured bond.

The trio allegedly obtained genuine birth certificates illegally from a source
in Texas, then used those to acquire Social Security cards, U.S. Attorney David
Lillehaug said in a news release. The defendants are charged with selling sets
of documents to illegal aliens who would then assume the new identity in order
to get a job in the United States, according to the news release.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 15, 1998 Thursday

IMMIGRATION LOOPHOLE CLOSES

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Illegal immigrants stood in long lines at Immigration and Naturalization Service
offices to file last-minute applications for a program that allowed them to stay
in the United States after paying a $1,000 fine. The program was expiring at
midnight Wednesday to the applause of critics, who called it an insult to legal
immigrants who often wait years in their home countries for permission to
immigrate. The program allowed certain illegal immigrants to obtain "green
cards" allowing them to live and work in the United State, while they waited for
their applications to be processed.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 27, 1998 Friday

INS: RAIDS DETAINED 83

SECTION: METRO; REGIONAL BRIEFING; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 80 words

DATELINE: WELLS, MINN.


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said 83 people were detained in
a recent sweep of suspected illegal immigrants in southern Minnesota and
southeastern South Dakota.

Nine people were detained in a raid Monday in Wells.

The action was part of a crackdown on illegal immigrants stemming from the
selling of false identity packages.

Other cities included in the sweep were Worthington, Albert Lea and Windom in
Minnesota and Sioux Falls in South Dakota.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 11, 1998 Thursday

FEDS SEEK WARRANT FOR DEPORTED MAN

BYLINE: Molly Guthrey, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Metro; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 411 words


Pedro Vital-Granados, a Mexican citizen, was supposed to appear in U.S. District
Court in St. Paul Wednesday to face serious federal charges that he smuggled
illegal aliens into the United States.

Instead, due to a governmental mix-up, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service mistakenly deported Vital-Granados last month.

Now the U.S. Attorney's office wants a warrant issued for the arrest of
Vital-Granados; the defendant's attorney, Brian Toder of St. Paul, wants the
case dismissed. U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan is taking the matter under
advisement.

"They accidentally deported my client, so the government wants an arrest warrant
for failure to appear today," Toder said Wednesday. "I told the judge the case
should be dismissed because, after all, the government made it impossible for
him to appear today."

The INS, meanwhile, is studying how it made the unusual slip.

"We're trying to figure out just exactly what happened and make sure we tighten
up our procedures, especially as far as flagging the files to make sure
something like this doesn't happen again," said Curtis Aljets, the regional head
of the INS. "Really we shouldn't have any excuse for something like this
happening ... there were a number of safeguards that just didn't work in this
particular case and we'll just have to review the whole procedure so that it
doesn't happen again. It's an embarrassment to us."

Vital-Granados and Juan Cortez-Ortega were indicted June 3 by a federal grand
jury in connection with the alleged smuggling of 19 Ecuadoran illegal immigrants
in a van. Vital-Granados and Cortez-Ortega allegedly were headed to the Twin
Cities and New York when the vehicle broke down May 7 on northbound Interstate
35 in Lakeville. INS agents arrested the two men after Lakeville police spotted
the van around 1 p.m. with a flat tire near the County Road 50 interchange.
Vital-Granados was being held for the federal government at the Carver County
jail in Chaska.

Vital-Granados was previously deported from the United States to Mexico on Oct.
6, 1997. If convicted of the smuggling charge, he faces a maximum penalty of 15
years in prison and a $500,000 fine.

If a warrant is issued for his arrest, Vital-Granados could be arrested if he
tries to re-enter the United States. He would not be extradited back to the
United States, however, to face the charges.

Molly Guthrey can be reached at 228-5505 or mguthrey@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 7, 1998 Tuesday

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT PLAN REVIVED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 75 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After a bruising battle, Congress last winter ended a program that allowed
certain illegal immigrants to remain in the United States while legalizing their
status, provided they paid a $1,000 fine. But now language to revive the
program, which was open to immigrants with a visa number from the State
Department or to the spouse, minor children or parents of U.S. adult citizens,
has been quietly slipped into a Senate appropriations bill.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 7, 1998 Tuesday

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT PLAN REVIVED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 75 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After a bruising battle, Congress last winter ended a program that allowed
certain illegal immigrants to remain in the United States while legalizing their
status, provided they paid a $1,000 fine. But now language to revive the
program, which was open to immigrants with a visa number from the State
Department or to the spouse, minor children or parents of U.S. adult citizens,
has been quietly slipped into a Senate appropriations bill.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 17, 1998 Friday

COALITION CHALLENGES IMMIGRATION ARRESTS;
ABOUT 600 AT RALLY

BYLINE: Amy Mayron, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 676 words


A coalition of churches publicly confronted the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the Minneapolis Park Board on Thursday night in a
heated rally to demand change in the way they arrest illegal immigrants.

Members of the St. Paul Ecumenical Alliance of Congregations and Interfaith
Action of Minneapolis have complained for months that immigration laws are
discriminatory and that INS does not provide Spanish-speaking agents. Thursday
they accused the two agencies of unfair treatment of Hispanics in May after more
than 20 people were arrested at several Minneapolis parks and later deported.

"We have a deficiency of services in immigration," said Alberto Puga of
Interfaith Action. "We have to fight against arrests. We want the right to work
to support our families."

The meeting of about 600 people at the Holy Rosary Roman Catholic Church in
Minneapolis was at least the second time the coalition has had rallies to
campaign against the INS. It previously demanded the INS create additional phone
lines and staff them with Spanish-speaking people to answer questions. It
demanded extended office hours and a larger Spanish-speaking staff.

Coalition members called Dean Hove, deputy director of the INS district office
for Minnesota, to the stage and asked him whether he could meet the demands.
When he tried to give answers other than "yes" or "no," he was told to sit down,
and the meeting continued.

The INS district office, which serves Minnesota, South Dakota and North Dakota,
has 19 special agents. Hove said Thursday before the rally that he doesn't have
enough staff or money to meet the group's demands.

He said he was frustrated at what he sees as a one-sided relationship. The
coalition has made demands on the INS but is unwilling to help make changes, he
said.

For example, he said, the coalition asked the INS to distribute immigration
forms in public places in addition to INS offices. Hove said he'd make the forms
available but did not have enough staff to distribute them. He asked the
coalition to help, but it declined.

"We have tried very hard to work with the organizations," Hove said. "We would
like to continue, but it can't be a one-way street."

Juan Peralta of the St. Paul Ecumenical Alliance of Congregations said he thinks
the rallies will help bring about changes and develop the relationship between
the Hispanic community and INS.

"We're showing everyone what the power can do," he said. "The politicians for
generations have painted a bad picture of the Hispanic community. With this
action, we're showing everyone the real picture of the Hispanic community."

At the rally, coalition members distributed petitions supporting their demands
of the INS. They also passed out a separate sheet soliciting ideas about other
changes that should be made at the INS. Those sheets were to be returned to the
district INS office.

Park Police and INS stand by the operation for which they are being criticized.

Lt. Ken Baribeau said the coalition unfairly accused the police of violating
people's rights.

"We're not grabbing up people in blankets and nets," he said.

Police called the INS several months ago because they had received many
complaints from neighborhood residents about crowds commandeering the parks and
committing crimes such as theft and drug dealing. Some of the residents also
complained there were illegal immigrants in the crowds.

INS agents rode with the Park Police one night in late May and looked for
illegal aliens at five parks - Loring, Franklin-Steele, Peavey, Elliott and
Holmes. INS made all the arrests.

"It's not a regular thing. Our highest priority is to arrest illegal aliens who
are criminals," Hove said, adding that the operation was sparked by resident
complaints. "We have far too many things to do to go out and try to arrest
people at random."

The Park Board passed a resolution Wednesday night saying it would support any
action taken to ensure park safety, said Mary Merrill Anderson, assistant
superintendent for administration.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: Bill Alkofer, Pioneer Press
PROTESING IMMIGRATION POLICIES
"I have no problem bearing my brother's cross," said Petey Mitchell
of St. Paul during a march against the Immigration and Naturalization
Service Thursday night in Minneapolis. Mitchell helped lead the march
from Augsburg College to Holy Rosary Roman Catholic Church in the
Phillips neighborhood. Also in attendance was Dean Hove, the INS
district deputy director. "I've seen signs here that say, 'No one is
illegal,' " Hove said. "Obviously we have a difference in
philosophy."
More than 600 people attended a public meeting at Holy Rosary Catholic
Church in Minneapolis Thursdy night to discuss policies and procedures
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 14, 1998 Friday

SEVEN DIE IN CALIFORNIA DESERT

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 53 words

DATELINE: SALTON CITY, CALIF.


Seven people thought to be illegal immigrants were found dead in the desert
north of the Mexican border Thursday, killed apparently by the heat. The bodies
of five men, a woman and a teen-age boy were discovered near a route
increasingly used by people who smuggle immigrants into the United States for a
price.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           August 26, 1998 Wednesday

113 IMMIGRANTS FOUND IN RIG

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: SIERRA BLANCA, TEXAS


Cries for help from inside a tractor-trailer led Border Patrol agents to 113
illegal immigrants crammed into the rig at an immigration checkpoint. Agents
said a man inside the trailer began beating on the sides and calling out when a
little girl standing next to him began to pass out. Others in the group suffered
near asphyxiation and dehydration after spending up to 10 hours in the truck
before it was stopped Monday at the Border Patrol checkpoint in Sierra Blanca,
90 miles southeast of El Paso.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 9, 1999 Saturday

DEPORTATIONS SET RECORD

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government said Friday it removed a record number of illegal immigrants from
the United States last year, deporting 171,154 foreigners with criminal records
or other disqualifying factors. Mexican nationals accounted for 81 percent.
Removals for the fiscal year that ended in September were up 50 percent from the
1997 record of 114,386, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said. The
figures don't include the estimated 1.5 million cases of illegal immigrants
apprehended at the U.S. borders last year, most at the Southwest border, and
immediately turned back.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associated Press
Bobi Milner contends with driving snow while walking to work in
Springfield, Ill., Friday. Some areas of the Midwest and East were
getting their third blast of heavy snow in less than a week.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 25, 1999 Saturday

ILLEGAL ALIENS STRAIN MINNESOTA FACILITIES;
1,800 DEPORTED IN '98 FROM STATE, DAKOTAS

BYLINE: ASHLEY H. GRANT ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 557 words


About 1,800 illegal aliens were deported last year from Minnesota, South Dakota
and North Dakota, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said Friday.

About 50 percent were picked up when they were charged for another crime. The
remainder were arrested at work sites.

Curtis Aljets, INS director of the three-state St. Paul district, said a growing
number of illegal aliens is straining resources such as court space, jail beds
and police officers' time, particularly in Minnesota.

"By comparison to surrounding states, Minnesota is one of the weakest points in
the Upper Midwest in deterring illegal immigration," Aljets told members of a
Minnesota House commerce committee at the state Capitol.

Aljets said his assertions were based on anecdotal evidence rather than hard
numbers, adding that he thinks Minnesota has become a magnet for illegal aliens
because of the availability of welfare, medical treatment and education.

"Minnesotans pride themselves on providing good services and schools as well as
taking care of those who are less fortunate," he said. "These normally admirable
and positive characteristics contribute to Minnesotans being vulnerable to the
manipulation and fraud."

INS officials suggested that Minnesota join an INS verification program that it
has repeatedly refused to join since 1986. Minnesota was one of two states in
the 20-state northern INS region that received a waiver to keep from
participating in the system.

Sally Fashant, a supervisor at the Department of Human Services, said the state
proved at the time that its own system was equal to or better than the INS
system.

But lawmakers criticized the Department of Human Services for its "hands-off"
policy on reporting possible aliens to the INS. A memo sent to agency employees
in April directed them not to "initiate contact with the INS without the
client's written permission."

"I just find that appalling," said Rep. Fran Bradley, R-Rochester.

The INS said the biggest barrier for Minnesota is that the state has no defined
policy on immigration. That means each agency must decide on its own what to do
when it runs across aliens.

Public Safety Commissioner Charlie Weaver said his agency was looking into ways
to reduce the number of people getting drivers' licenses with fraudulent
documents.

"We are not law enforcement officers though. ... We don't want to turn into a
place where people are afraid to go," he said.

Jorge Saavedra, the chief legal officer for Centro Legal Inc., a non-profit law
office in St. Paul, cautioned lawmakers not to "go overboard" in setting new
restrictions.

He wants to make sure any new procedures would target only illegal aliens and
not inadvertently make life more difficult for legal immigrants.

The INS expects to have helped more than 8,100 immigrants become citizens in the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30. That would surpass the region's old record of 6,400
naturalizations in 1997.

"Minnesota has a sense of fairness and balance," Saavedra said. "A lot of people
are here because of this tolerance."

Aljets said that although the total number of deportations is expected to be
about the same in 1999 as it was last year, the rate of crime is higher.
Officials expect about 80 percent of those deported in the region to be arrested
on another criminal charge.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 16, 1999 Saturday

HOTEL EMPLOYEES FACE DEPORTATION;
EMPLOYER REFUTES MEXICAN WORKERS' SPECULATION THAT UNION TIES SPURRED ACTION

BYLINE: Mike Hughlett, Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 597 words


When eight Mexican workers showed up for work Wednesday at the Holiday Inn
Express in downtown Minneapolis, a federal immigration agent was there to meet
them. Six of them have been declared illegal immigrants, waiting in jail for
deportation. The other two may eventually face the same fate.

The eight are left wondering whether their plight is related to their strong
support for a newly organized union at the Holiday Inn Express, 225 S. 11th St.

The Twin Cities hotel workers union and a south Minneapolis priest say it is:
Management retaliated against the workers by turning them over to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, they believe.

The hotel's general manager disagrees: He said he simply had a legal obligation
to report the workers.

All the workers - six women and two men - have admitted to being in the United
States illegally and soon will be flown back to Mexico, according to an INS
official.

The illegal immigrants were all housekeepers, making up roughly half of the
Holiday Inn Express's staff. Some had begun working at the 96-room hotel soon
after it opened in April 1998. Others had worked there about 90 to 120 days. Six
of the eight are members of the same family.

Two of the women were allowed to stay temporarily in the United States because
they have minor children here. They will face a deportation hearing within the
next few months. The other six illegal immigrants were immediately detained: two
men in the Carver County jail, and four women in the Blue Earth County jail.

"They were strong union supporters," said Ed Leahy, associate priest at Holy
Rosary Catholic Church in South Minneapolis, where some of the workers attend
services. Leahy helped organize a rally with the Albinos last summer when
Holiday Inn workers were trying to unionize.

The union prevailed in August, and is slated to begin negotiating its first
contract in early November. The negotiations will go on, although the union is
now scrambling a bit. The illegal immigrant workers "were the negotiating
committee," said Jaye Rykunyk, the principal officer for Hotel Employees and
Restaurant Employees Local 17.

Illegal immigrants are endemic in the hotel and restaurant industry,
particularly with Minnesota's tight labor market, Rykunyk said. "It's an open
secret in our industry. Frankly, the industry doesn't function without those
workers."

Employers do sometimes discover that they may be employing undocumented workers,
Rykunyk said. The employer's usual response is to ask such workers for proof of
legality; if they don't have it, they're terminated, she said. Rykunyk said
she's never seen an employer turn over workers to the INS, however.

Kevin Koenig, the Holiday Inn Express's general manager, said he had a
responsibility to report the workers to the INS, or his firm would be
susceptible to fines. "It has nothing to do with the union," Koenig said.

Koenig said he was tipped off in September - he declined to say by whom - that
several of his workers were illegal immigrants. He called the Social Security
Administration, and found that all of the workers were using bogus Social
Security numbers.

Leahy and the union plan to hold a candlelight vigil Monday night in front of
the Holiday Inn Express to protest the workers' deportation. "It's almost like
an act of violence," Leahy said. "I feel as badly as when I buried those two
kids who got killed (in a recent drive-by shooting in South Minneapolis)."

Mike Hughlett, who covers economics and labor, can be reached at
mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5428

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 13, 1999 Saturday

176,000 ILLEGAL ALIENS EXPELLED DURING PAST YEAR

SECTION: MAIN; National Briefing; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 83 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More than 176,000 illegal immigrants, a third of whom have criminal records,
were expelled from the United States during the recently concluded fiscal year,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service reported Friday. The 176,990 removals
marked a record for the agency and a 3 percent increase from the 171,154
deported a year earlier. But removals were slowed because of the U.S. decision
to suspend deportations of Central American detainees whose homelands were
devastated by Hurricane Mitch.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 28, 1999 Tuesday

7 HELD ON IMMIGRATION, NOT TERRORISM, CHARGES

SECTION: MAIN; National Briefing; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Seven Jordanians were arrested at the Canadian border on what officials Monday
called routine illegal immigration charges - not terrorist suspicions - as
originally announced. Three men, two women and two children were taken into
custody by U.S. officials Sunday afternoon near the checkpoint at Blaine, Wash.,
about 100 miles north of Seattle. One of the women, who was with a toddler and
was legally in Canada, and a man in the process of becoming a Canadian citizen,
left a car at a duty-free shop on the Canadian side and walked across the border
in a nearby park, authorities said. U.S. officials picked them up and then found
four other people who were waiting to meet them - the woman's husband and a
couple and their toddler, said Gene Davis of the U.S. Border Patrol.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 7, 2000 Friday

HOTEL SETTLES WORKER CHARGES;
WILL PAY $72,000 IN LANDMARK CASE

BYLINE: Scott Carlson, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 764 words


In a landmark settlement Thursday with the federal government, the operators of
a downtown Minneapolis hotel have agreed to pay $72,000 to nine illegal
immigrants fired last October in alleged retaliation for leading a successful
union organizing drive.

The settlement between the Holiday Inn Express and the U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission is the first of its kind since agency officials pledged
recently to give undocumented workers more protections against workplace abuse.

The dispute involved Mexican housekeepers whom the Holiday Inn Express fired and
then reported to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The workers' union
posted bail for the jailed workers and then filed charges with the National
Labor Relations Board, accusing Holiday Inn Express of making retaliatory
firings. The EEOC later filed suit against the hotel.

Holiday Inn Express denied the union's allegations and said it didn't break any
labor or discrimination laws. In a prepared statement Thursday, the company said
it was cheaper for the hotel to settle the charges than wage a legal fight that
could last up to two years.

Twin Cities employment lawyers expect that the EEOC settlement will have a
ripple effect across the nation's business community. "This is an unprecedented
step on behalf of people who are not citizens of the U.S.," said Linda Holstein,
a Minneapolis corporate defense attorney.

Previously, the EEOC said it had limited authority to help workers who were in
the United States illegally. Marshall Tanick, a Minneapolis employment lawyer,
predicted that the EEOC's settlement will now encourage plaintiffs' attorneys to
consider taking on cases for illegal immigrants. Meanwhile, employers will
probably take more care in checking out potential employees before hiring them,
he said.

Holiday Inn claimed it was caught in a crossfire between federal "agency
agendas." It said that the INS told the hotel it could not employ the illegal
immigrants while the EEOC sued to bring the workers back. "Some effort should be
put into the legislative reconciliation of the various statutes and agency
agenda rather than placing employers in this inconsistent crossfire," the hotel
said.

The hotel's settlement - also reached with the NLRB - requires Holiday Inn to
train its managers on laws relating to discrimination and retaliation; make sure
workplace policies are communicated to all workers; and post notice of the
agreement at its workplace.

A regional EEOC attorney said the settlement "reinforces the Commission's
position that the anti-discrimination laws protect all employees, regardless of
their immigration status. Retaliating against unauthorized workers because they
complained about workplace bias is unlawful. Such unscrupulous behavior by
employers will not be tolerated."

The EEOC's lawsuit alleged that Holiday Inn Express committed race
discrimination against the nine workers, denying them lunch and rest breaks and
imposing more rigorous productivity standards on them. The workers involved were
Rosa Albino, Evertina Albino, Reyna Albino, Norma del Toro, Bulfrano Albino,
Bruna Alvarez, Estella Albino, Amado Flores and Francilia Albino.

The hotel denied the allegations, saying that some problems were the result of
misunderstandings.

Officers of Hotel and Restaurant Employees Local 17 called the settlement a
victory for the workers and the union. "They never expected that kind of money,"
said Martin Goff, a union vice president.

Goff said the undocumented workers stayed and fought deportation in order to
fight for some sort of justice for their firings. "They stayed because they
wanted to get justice. And they did."

Despite the EEOC settlement, the nine workers are currently awaiting deportation
hearings.

The case has become a rallying point for organized labor - particularly since
the hotel and restaurant industry apparently is a heavy user of illegal
immigrant labor. Holiday Inn Express said it was put in the "unfortunate
position" of having to report the illegal workers to the INS after learning some
employees had falsified Social Security numbers and other documents.

The 96-room Holiday Inn Express was unionized in August and the negotiations
committee included several of the fired workers. The union said Thursday it has
negotiated its first contract with the hotel, a two-year pact similar to other
area hotels.

Scott Carlson, who covers policy and regulation, can be reached at
scarlson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5470. Staff writer Mike Hughlett
contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 11, 2000 Tuesday

THREE ILLEGAL ALIENS DIE ON SHIP

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 105 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Three illegal immigrants were found dead Monday inside a soft-topped container
that had been shipped from Hong Kong. Fifteen people who survived the journey
inside the same container were taken into the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and were treated for malnutrition and dehydration. All 18
are believed to be from China. The boat, the Cape May, is owned by NYK, a
company that also owns a ship on which 25 illegal immigrants huddled in two
containers before being arrested in Vancouver, British Columbia, on Jan. 3. That
"doesn't mean the shipping line is involved in any way," Mortensen said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associated Press
Memorial service for Zumwalt
Sailors carry the coffin of Adm. Elmo R. Zumwalt Jr. after a memorial
service Monday at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. Zumwalt was
chief of naval operations from 1970 to 1974.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 12, 2000 Wednesday

LAWYERS SEEK AMNESTY FOR EIGHT ILLEGAL ALIENS;
HOTEL EMPLOYEES WERE TURNED IN BY BOSS IN OCTOBER

BYLINE: Mike Hughlett, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 250 words


Attorneys for eight illegal immigrants involved in a landmark labor settlement
have asked the federal government to grant the immigrants amnesty, allowing them
to stay in the United States.

The workers, all from Mexico, worked at the Holiday Inn Express in Minneapolis
until they were fired in October and reported by their employer to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The workers' union, Hotel Employees and
Restaurant Employees Local 17, complained to the National Labor Relations Board
that the workers were fired in retaliation for their union activity.

The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission also investigated the firings,
eventually filing a suit against the hotel for discrimination based on national
origin. The hotel reached a settlement with the EEOC and the NLRB and agreed to
pay $72,000 to the illegal immigrants. It was the first settlement of its kind
by the EEOC since that agency pledged last fall to extend workplace rights to
undocumented workers.

However, the eight workers still await deportation hearings.

"To complete the picture from a justice standpoint, they should be allowed to
remain in the United States and enjoy the fruits of this settlement," said Jorge
Saavedra F., chief legal officer for Centro Legal, which represents the workers.

INS official Curtis Aljets said Tuesday he didn't see any legal grounds upon
which to grant the workers amnesty.
Mike Hughlett can be reached at mhughlett@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5428.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 3, 2000 Thursday

RENO, INS CHIEF TO DISCUSS IMMIGRANTS' CASE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: TWIN CITIES


U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and the head of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service are set to discuss nine illegal immigrants who were fired
after they organized a union, the INS chief in the Twin Cities said Wednesday.

Curtis Aljets, director of the regional INS office, said his office was asked to
provide additional material on the case for today's meeting. That material
included the settlement agreement reached on the workers' behalf between the
Holiday Inn Express, the downtown Minneapolis hotel where the nine worked, and
two other federal agencies.

U.S. Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., has asked both Reno and INS Commissioner
Doris Meissner to let the nine stay in the United States because they helped
investigators from the National Labor Relations Board and the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission build a case against the hotel.

That investigation resulted in a $72,000 settlement last month. The Holiday Inn
Express paid $8,000 to each of the former housekeepers in the first major test
of new EEOC policies meant to protect all employees against discrimination
regardless of their immigration status.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 11, 2000 Tuesday

INVISIBLE WORKFORCE;
MUCH OF THE COUNTRY'S CURRENT PROSPERITY IS BEING CARRIED ON THE BACK OF
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS AND DAY LABORERES. IS IT TIME TO RECOGNIZE THEIR
CONTRIBUTIONS WITH A GENERAL AMNESTY?

BYLINE: Allan B. Ramirez, Commentator

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 642 words


We in the United States have enjoyed unprecedented economic growth in the past
decade. Many factors have contributed to this economic boom at the lowest level,
but not of the least importance are undocumented immigrants and day laborers.

Often forgotten and usually unnoticed, they do the menial tasks that support our
economy. Usually paid less than the minimum wage, hard-working men and women
perform jobs no one else wants: washing dishes at local restaurants, catering
halls and country clubs; heavy construction and demolition work; landscaping and
housekeeping positions. We even entrust to them the care of our children and
elderly parents.

Yet these individuals - without whom our nation could not prosper - live under a
cloud of fear: the disabling fear of deportation that makes them victims of
unscrupulous contractors, employers and landlords. Recently, Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan testified we will continue to need laborers in
entry-level jobs for the foreseeable future. The time has come to extend a
general amnesty to undocumented immigrants who, with their hard work, have
benefited our nation and each of us as individuals.

It has been my privilege to become acquainted with some of these hard-working
men and women. I have been appalled to experience the circumstances in which
they are forced to live and work: cockroach-infested apartments on Long Island's
"Gold Coast"; dingy basement rooms with but a single light bulb dangling by a
wire from the ceiling; rest rooms with facilities one would only imagine in
Third World nations.

I met two brothers from El Salvador, along with their two cousins, who share a
three-room apartment above a store. They pay $1,100 a month, plus utilities, but
have been forced to survive for months at a time without heat or water.

As long as their undocumented status remains tenuous, these men and others like
them will continue to be exploited by landlords who care only about getting
their monthly rent.

Among these workers are some who are contributing to our Social Security system,
from which they will never be able to benefit. Worse are those who go unpaid. A
Salvadoran woman worked for nearly a year as a live-in housekeeper. When her
services were no longer needed, she was fired and the wages for the last several
weeks went unpaid. When she complained, her employers initially threatened to
"call Immigration" on her, but eventually paid the back wages.

In none of these cases did the individuals seek protection or assistance from
government agencies. They feared to do so because of their status.

While for the most part they are the least educated, and the most vulnerable to
exploitation and intimidation, they continue to carry their share of the load in
building our expanding economy. Imagine if for one day all undocumented workers
stayed home. It would wreak incredible havoc on all of our lives, and speak
volumes about their economic impact. We need them, just as they need our nation
to help them better their lives.

The exploitation and abuse of undocumented workers will continue as long as
their status as responsible, hard-working members of our communities goes
unrecognized. Justice demands that we do nothing less than provide full and
complete amnesty to those who continue to help our nation grow.

This July 4, as we celebrate our freedoms both individually and as a nation, I
urge all members of the clergy to consider joining me in speaking from their
pulpits in support of amnesty for the undocumented among us. While there are
those Americans who view undocumented immigrants as fair prey for exploitation,
as a caring, civilized nation, we can still do the right thing.
Ramirez is pastor of the Brookville Reformed Church in Glen Head, N.Y.
Distributed by the Los Angeles Times-Washington Post News Service.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 26, 2000 Wednesday

INS TO LET HOTEL WORKERS STAY;
PRIEST, LAWYER FIND COMMON CAUSE, PATH IN QUEST FOR JUSTICE

BYLINE: Nick Coleman, Staff Columnist

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1330 words


There's a priest named Ed and a lawyer named Ben.

It sounds like the start of a joke, but the laugh's on anyone who opposes the
right of undocumented immigrants to live and work in Minnesota. Right now, those
immigrants have a charismatic priest and an energetic lawyer on their side. And
the priest and the lawyer - comrades in a cause and, since Saturday,
co-religionists - seem to make a winning combination.

After the TV crews had packed up and left Tuesday morning, Ed Leahy took off his
jacket and tore off the black dickey with the stiff white collar he had been
wearing, sweating in the sun outside the Immigration and Naturalization Service
offices.

The immigrant community of Minnesota - for which he has become a leading
advocate - had just won a hard-fought victory: Seven Minneapolis hotel workers
who were going to be deported to Mexico can stay in Minnesota. But it was too
hot for a Roman collar. Besides, no one recognizes Padre Eduardo in his formal
get-up.

"I never wear this thing," Leahy said with a laugh, trying to pull it over his
head. "It's too small, so my belly sticks out. I had to wear my jacket, too - to
hide the belly."

"Felicidades, amigo!" a woman shouted, running up to Leahy and giving him a bear
hug and congratulations in Spanish. Leahy reached for a handkerchief to wipe the
tears that had begun to flow. At long last, it was over. Or, perhaps, it had
just begun.

"Defending social justice is a necessary part of proclaiming the Gospel," Leahy
said as he dabbed his eyes. "Whether it's housing or health care or the right to
unionize, these people are not statistics, these people are not problems, these
people are people, real people, and that's the thing the church does not allow
us to forget."

"These people" are illegal immigrants who help keep the economy of the Twin
Cities (and the nation) humming by performing low-wage jobs, working in nursing
homes, restaurants, airports or the Holiday Inn Express. That's where the hotel
workers were arrested last October after hotel officials - trying to break up a
union organizing campaign - called the INS. With uncertain status and subject to
deportation, they work and live in fear. Father Leahy calls it "living in the
shadows."

"They have no rights, no protections, no voice," Leahy said. "They live in the
shadows and they live in fear of being discovered. But they come here for the
American dream, the same reason the rest of us came. And we need to protect
them."

Two of the most influential defenders of immigrant rights in the Twin Cities are
Father Leahy and a recent convert of his, attorney Ben Casper, an attorney for
the immigrant advocacy organization Centro Legal that represented the hotel
workers. Last Saturday night, at the Easter Vigil at Holy Rosary Church in South
Minneapolis, Father Leahy baptized Casper - a descendant of English
Episcopalians and European Jews - and welcomed him into the Catholic Church.
Tuesday, the priest and the lawyer teamed up to hail the INS agreement to allow
the hotel workers to stay in Minnesota for two years as a huge win for
undocumented workers.

"This is about the Gospel, spreading the good news that all people have
dignity," Leahy said. "We praise God for this victory, and for the struggle
ahead. This is a significant step towards the Kingdom."

Father Leahy, 36, was born in Chicago, the 10th child of Irish immigrants. With
sandy brown hair and a goatee that is turning gray, he looks more like a
doctoral student than a priest. But he's associate pastor of one of the
fastest-growing churches in Minnesota, the Church of the Holy Rosary (Santo
Rosario to its Latino faithful) in the Phillips Neighborhood of Minneapolis
where, at 11 a.m. Mass on Sundays, he preaches in Spanish to a
standing-room-only flock. He also is at the center of a growing social justice
movement that draws strength from the Catholic church and the burgeoning number
of Spanish-speakers - most from Mexico - who are arriving in Minneapolis. For
Padre Eduardo and his flock, Tuesday was a day of victory. The INS, which had
come within 24 hours last October of deporting the undocumented hotel workers
back to Mexico, had compromised with the people of Holy Rosary.

"Si, se puede!" supporters of the hotel workers were chanting. "Yes, we can!"
they were saying, echoing the rallying cry of Cesar Chavez and his followers in
the vineyards of California when the grape pickers were being organized. "Yes,
we can!"

The case of the hotel workers drew national attention. Eight workers at the
Holiday Inn Express in downtown Minneapolis who had joined a union effort to win
better wages and job conditions were busted by the INS after being turned in by
the hotel as illegal immigrants. Three of them sing in the choir at Holy Rosary
on Sundays, and Father Leahy and the church went to bat for them. Tuesday's
rally on behalf of the workers included a display of Mexican and Vatican flags
alongside the U.S. flag, and a circle of nuns singing "We Shall Overcome." The
state's growing Hispanic community, which is heavily Roman Catholic, is helping
reignite a social justice movement within the church, especially in inner-city
areas.

"We wouldn't have succeeded in this case if the hotel workers hadn't been part
of this church community," said Casper, 31. "The church really was the key to
the success of this campaign."

If it hadn't been for a chance encounter inside a county jail where four of the
women hotel workers - still wearing their hotel uniforms a week after their
arrest - were about to be deported, the case would have ended last fall with the
workers being sent back to Mexico. And if not for that encounter, Casper might
not be Catholic.

Casper was visiting an inmate, working on another case, when he was asked to
talk with the hotel workers. Within minutes, the deportation was on hold and the
jailed workers were on Casper's cell phone to Father Leahy, who urged them to
resist deportation, to stay and to fight.

They did, and Tuesday, they won at least partial vindication. The INS,
acknowledging the workers' cooperation with a government investigation of the
hotel, gave the workers a two-year reprieve. The hotel, accused of violating
laws prohibiting discrimination against workers, paid a fine earlier this year.
In two years, the workers will have to return to Mexico unless Congress relaxes
immigration laws. If Father Leahy and Holy Rosary have their way, the laws will
change.

"In terms of changing the laws to return compassion and justice - fairness - to
the way we treat immigrants, Holy Rosary is the focal point," Casper said.
"Father Ed is great. He's my friend and he's my priest at the same time. He's
the lightning rod, and you can expect great things out of Holy Rosary."

Casper, a native of Northfield, Minn., found himself increasingly drawn to Holy
Rosary and its Spanish-speaking congregation. Finally, he asked Leahy for
instruction in the Catholic faith. On Saturday, Casper received three Catholic
sacraments, being baptized, confirmed and making First Communion.

"I feel great!" he said. "I've always had a faith in God but I didn't have a
church. I feel at home at Holy Rosary. I'm expecting my first child in October,
and I am thrilled about it because I want to raise my child in a community like
this, a community of faith and energy."

Father Leahy has been the target of criticism, both within and outside the
church, accused by some of defending illegal immigrants, of engaging in
politics, or being "a bad priest." He doesn't have time for such stuff.

"This work is not easy, but it's necessary," he said as the crowd renewed its
chant of "Si, se puede."

"The Twin Cities aren't about Mary Tyler Moore and Rhoda anymore. We're becoming
a microcosm of the world and we have to have a moral sense of what is right and
wrong. That's a good thing. That's enriching all of us."

Nick Coleman can be reached at ncoleman@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5472.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CHRIS POLYDOROFF, PIONEER PRESS
Attorney Ben Casper, left, and Ed Leahy, or 'Padre Eduardo,' associate
pastor of the Church of the Holy Rosary in Minneapolis, beam at the
news of an agreement to allow immigrant hotel workers facing
deportation to remain in the United States for two years.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 5, 2000 Saturday

MEATPACKER SEEKS TO HAVE UNION ELECTION OVERTURNED;
UNION REPRESENTATIVES DENY THEY INTIMIDATED WORKERS

BYLINE: Scott Carlson, Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 458 words


Two weeks after production workers at Dakota Premium Foods voted to organize,
the South St. Paul meatpacker is asking a federal labor agency to throw out the
election, accusing some union backers of interfering with the balloting.

Dakota Premium alleges that at least one supporter of United Food and Commercial
Workers Local 789 threatened to turn in the names of undocumented employees to
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service if the union lost the election.
Many of the plant's workers are Spanish-speaking immigrants.

"While the company does not knowingly employ unauthorized workers, this was
nonetheless powerful intimidation for individuals who may already feel their
authorization to work in this country is tenuous and that the INS is not to be
trusted," the company asserted in papers filed with the National Labor Relations
Board in Minneapolis. A spokesman for the board said it is reviewing the
company's protest.

Dakota Premium also accused the union and its supporters of misrepresenting
sample ballots, shouting pro-union comments while employees stood in line to
vote at the plant's break room on July 21 and promising to give workers each
$10,000 if they voted to organize.

Local 789 representatives denied the company's allegations, calling them
"absurd" and "baseless."

"This election was fair and upfront," Bill Pearson, president of Local 789, said
Friday. "The company doesn't have the decency to sit down and negotiate a
contract."

Pearson contended that Dakota Premium is trying to demoralize the workers and
bust the union after they voted 112-71 to join Local 789. He said the company
sent two well-known union activists home Thursday morning and fired one of them,
a sign of escalating labor tensions.

If the labor board overturns the election, "we will most likely lose the next
one," Pearson said. "The company has spent the past six weeks telling workers
that even if they organize, they'll never get a contract. They continually
reminded them of eight years ago and the surface bargaining that resulted in a
decertification (of the union) after 13 months."

In early June, Dakota Premium meatpackers stopped working for about two hours
one day, raising concerns about production line speed and other issues. A
company spokesman contended Dakota Premium addressed the workers' concerns. But
some workers, many of whom are Spanish-speaking immigrants, approached Local 789
about getting a union.

After a campaign of less than two months, Dakota Premium workers voted to join
Local 879, one of the few times this year that a union in Minnesota has won an
organizing drive involving 100 or more workers.
Scott Carlson can be reached at scarlson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5470.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 30, 1999 Tuesday

SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES INVESTIGATED AFTER JAIL THEFT CHARGES;
DECISION PENDING ON WHETHER TO PROSECUTE

BYLINE: from staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 253 words


Two Ramsey County sheriff's deputies have been suspended with pay during an
investigation of allegations they stole $300 from an inmate at the Ramsey County
Adult Detention Center, Sheriff Bob Fletcher said Monday.

The alleged theft was reported by another deputy on Nov. 22, and the incident
was investigated by the Sheriff's Department, Fletcher said. The results of the
investigation have been turned over to the Minneapolis city attorney for a
decision on whether any criminal charges are warranted.

That decision is expected within a day or two, Fletcher said. The Minneapolis
city attorney is handling the case to avoid any possible conflict of interest by
the St. Paul city attorney.

"This type of allegation reflects on the integrity of our department, and we are
taking it very seriously," Fletcher said.

If charges are filed and the deputies are convicted, they will lose their
licenses as law enforcement officers, the sheriff added.

The alleged victim in the case is an illegal immigrant, Fletcher said. There are
no allegations of other thefts at the jail, he said. Approximately 20,000
inmates are booked into the adult detention center each year.

The two suspended deputies have worked at the jail about two years, the sheriff
said. Deputies work in teams of four at the facility, on downtown St. Paul's
Kellogg Boulevard.

In addition to the criminal investigation, the Sheriff's Department is also
conducting an internal affairs investigation of the allegations, Fletcher said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 31, 2000 Monday

FEDS ARE MISUING IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: Bernardo Ruiz, Commentator

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 467 words


The United States should stop using immigration law to punish union members.

This month, nine Minneapolis hotel maids won a lawsuit against Holiday Inn
Express. The workers had helped form a union in August. In October, managers of
the hotel fired them and reported them to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which had them arrested. The Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees
Union filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on
behalf of the workers, who won a $72,000 settlement. It was the first time the
EEOC ever intervened on behalf of illegal immigrants.

Despite their victory, the workers still are likely to be deported to Mexico.

This is not the first time U.S. employers have used threats of deportation to
keep immigrant workers from organizing labor unions. It will not be the last.
But employer sanctions against workers trying to organize have grown more
frequent and widespread.

Last March, 13 apple-packing houses fired more than 500 immigrant workers in
Washington state who were part of a union organizing drive.

In another case, management at RCR Classic, a Los Angeles furniture
manufacturer, allegedly targeted pro-union workers by sending them letters
asking them to verify their legal status.

These examples demonstrate how current immigration laws help unscrupulous
employers to break unions.

When Congress passed the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, employers
suddenly became de facto agents of the INS. They are required by law to verify
the immigration status of their employees. Many employers willingly continue to
hire undocumented workers. But as soon as these workers agitate for better pay
or for safer conditions or for union representation, some employers turn them
in.

The chances of a company getting fined by the INS are less than two-tenths of a
percent, according to the Washington Post. This gives employers little reason
not to hire undocumented workers. And it gives those employers tremendous power
to dismiss employees at willwhile blaming the government.

In an election year, immigration and labor are hot-button issues. But candidates
should address the fundamental conflicts in U.S. immigration and labor policies.

Many industries in the United States depend on immigrant labor. Whether they are
picking produce, sewing clothes in factories or building roads and highways,
immigrants are an essential part of today's work force.

Workers should have the right to organize freely - no matter what their
immigrant status.

Ruiz is associate editor at NACLA Report on the Americas magazine in New York.
He can be reached at pmproj@progressive.org, or in care of the Progressive Media
Project, 409 E. Main St., Madison, Wis. 53703. Distributed for the project by
KRT News Service.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      February 4, 2000 Friday CITY EDITION

HIGH-TECH WORKER VISAS DRYING UP

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 592 words

DATELINE: Washington


The United States has almost exhausted its allocation of visas for software
designers, architects, doctors and other highly educated workers just four
months into this fiscal year, immigration lawyers say.

"What our members in the field are saying is they don't think there will be
enough H-1B visas to go around and they will hit the cap shortly," said Matthew
Tallmer, a spokesman for the American Immigration Lawyers Association. Fiscal
year 2000 began Oct. 1, and the government already has a two-month backlog of
applications, lawyers say.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service won't say how many of its
congressionally mandated allotment of 115,000 visas it has granted until it
figures out how many it issued last year. The INS exceeded the limit, and
auditors from KPMG International are trying to determine by how much.

Intel, Sun Microsystems and other high-tech companies say the dearth of visas is
frustrating their hunt for skilled workers this year. And economists say the
shortfalls may lead companies to raise wages to the point where they also must
increase prices.

The shortfall of H-1B visas has been an important issue for the tech industry in
Minnesota, where labor shortages generally are even more acute than they are
nationally. Minnesota's unemployment rate was 2.4 percent in December,
comfortably below the U.S. rate of 4.1 percent.

The exhaustion of H-1B visas so soon "just exacerbates the problem," said R.
Jane Brown, president of the Minnesota High Tech Association, which includes
more than 700 firms, from small Internet companies to multinational
corporations.

Stanching the flow of foreign workers "is certainly not a positive development
if you were hoping for some slack to return to the labor force," said Kevin
Flanagan, an economist with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York.

Unemployment has been holding at a 30-year low of 4.1 percent for the last three
months.

"Even at the wages we're paying, we still can't find people in the U.S. to fill
these jobs," said Heidi Wilson, immigration manager for Sun, one of the largest
makers of computers that run Web sites.

Congress raised the limit on H-1B visas - those reserved for professional
workers with the equivalent of a bachelor's degree or higher - to 115,000 for
1999 and 2000 at the urging of business. The cap had been 65,000.

The new cap nonetheless was reached three months before the 1999 fiscal year
ended Sept. 30.

Agency spokeswoman Elaine Komis did say the INS has yet to reach the cap in
fiscal 2000. When it does will depend in part on whether the government decides
to count the extra visas granted last year as part of this year's allocation.

Sun hired between 300 and 500 foreign-born software engineers, computer chip
designers, and other skilled workers last year, Wilson estimated.

The company will have to move jobs to India if the INS doesn't grant all Sun's
visa applications this year, she said. "If we can't get them here, then we're
going to have to take the jobs where the talent is," said Wilson.

Intel, the world's largest maker of computer chips, has already sent eight
workers to offices in other countries because the INS hasn't acted on their visa
applications, said company spokeswoman Tracy Koon.

Several bills are circulating in Congress to ease the problem. A proposal by
Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona, seeking his party's presidential
nomination, would eliminate H-1B visa limits altogether until 2006.
Staff writer Mike Hughlett contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 26, 2000 Saturday

DEARTH OF HIGH-TECH WORKERS MAKES GERMANS RETHINK LAWS;
SCHROEDER URGES CHANGE IN IMMIGRATION RULES, BUT OPPOSITION SEEKS TRAINING

BYLINE: HANS GREIMEL, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: HANOVER, GERMANY


Dressed in a crisp blue suit, headhunter A. Ayyanarsamy has been working the
recruiter booths for five hours at the world's biggest technology fair, trying
to find jobs for computer wizards from India. So far, no luck.

Even with high unemployment, many jobs are going unfilled in Germany because a
snarl of red tape and strict immigration laws have aggravated a shortage of
qualified help.

"Trying to find a job for a highly trained Indian is next to impossible," says
Ayyanarsamy as he cruises the 150 recruiter stands at the high-tech fair known
as CeBIT.

This could change soon as business leaders and Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder push
for dramatic reforms that could open German borders to 30,000 foreign workers.

There are now 75,000 empty positions that can't be filled for lack of skilled
workers, complains the German association for computer and telecommunications
companies, BITCOM. That number is expected to shoot up to 350,000 in the next
two years as the German economy continues its shift from heavy industry to high
technology.

There is a worldwide shortage of computer workers, but it is especially acute in
Germany, where immigration laws typically slam the door on foreign workers.

Without access to a vast global labor pool, German companies fear they will fall
behind - especially compared with their U.S. competitors, who routinely recruit
the best and brightest from overseas, contributing to a brain drain from
developing countries.

German businesses now want to gear up for global competition by implementing a
U.S.-style "green card" system that would let in 30,000 technology experts from
Eastern Europe and India. Green cards are the documents foreigners need to work
and live permanently in the United States.

Schroeder endorsed the plan Wednesday night at the opening of CeBIT. But he has
yet to say how many workers would be let in and how long they would be allowed
to stay. The chancellor hopes to provide details of the plan by March 13,
government spokesman Bela Anda said Friday.

Schroeder has made clear, however, that companies could qualify for the special
workers only if they make equal efforts to retrain unemployed Germans.

Employers at the trade show welcomed the news as a major breakthrough.

Companies that want to hire from abroad confront a wall of bureaucracy. For a
prospective employee to win both a residence permit and a working permit, the
hiring company must prove that an equally qualified worker can't be found in
Germany or in any of the 14 other countries in the European Union.

In the end, permits are granted on the basis of whether it is in the "public
interest," a criterion that businesses complain is vague and open to abuse.

Ayyanarsamy who recruits throughout Europe, typically avoids Germany because of
the tough laws. He ventured to CeBIT, sensing change was in the air.

But plans to bring in foreign workers come at a time when Germany is battling a
chronic unemployment rate of roughly 10 percent, with more than 4 million people
out of work. IG Metall, the world's largest union and guardian of German
workers' high wages and generous benefits, attacked the plan. It wants
businesses to focus on retraining Germany's unemployed.

The opposition Christian Democratic party complained the plan only treated the
symptoms without curing the disease: poor training in German schools.
In the meantime, Ayyanarsamy said he will keep making the rounds at CeBIT
selling German companies on the virtues of hiring computer experts out of the
city of Bangalore, India's equivalent of the Silicon Valley.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christof Stache, Associated Press
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder visits the America Online booth as
he tours the CeBIT computer fair in Hanover, northern Germany, on
Thursday. Schroeder announced the government's preparedness to start a
work visa scheme to attract skilled foreign workers to fill some of
the 75,000 unfilled high-tech vacancies in Germany, despite a 10
percent unemployment rate.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 2, 2000 Thursday

LEGISLATION WOULD BOOST VISA PROGRAM

BYLINE: MICHELLE MITTELSTADT ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Amid complaints of acute high-tech worker shortages, the chairman of the House
immigration subcommittee introduced legislation Wednesday that would boost a
visa program for skilled foreigners by 45,000 this year.

The proposal by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, is far leaner than a Senate bill that
would increase the number of H-1B visas from 115,000 to 195,000 per year for
three years.

While welcoming Smith's effort, high-tech industry officials said his measure is
laced with onerous requirements and contains new user fees.

"It's a good news, bad news story. The good news is that Chairman Smith, who has
been skeptical in the past about the need for more H-1Bs, has now indicated he
clearly does accept there is a serious problem," said Harris Miller, president
of the Information Technology Association of America.

But when it comes to the actual provisions of Smith's bill, "We have lots of
concerns."

Smith defended his legislation as a "reasonable, realistic response to the
demonstrated actual needs of the industry."

As of Feb. 15, about 67,000 of the H-1B petitions were approved by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for the fiscal year, agency officials
said. There are about another 44,000 petitions pending with the INS, meaning up
to 111,000 may already be accounted for. The cap for the number of H-1B visas
that can be distributed between Oct. 1, 1999, and Sept. 30, 2000, is 115,000.

The strong demand for the visas is a reflection of the booming high-tech
industry in the United States in recent years. Of about 134,400 H-1B visas
distributed between May 11, 1998, and July 31, 1999, about 53 percent of them
were given to immigrants filling system analyst or programmer jobs, according to
an INS estimate. And 47.5 percent of those were distributed to people from
India.

The Computing Technology Industry Association claims nearly 269,000 high-tech
jobs are now unfilled, costing U.S. businesses $4.5 billion annually in lost
productivity. Organized labor contends the industry is looking overseas chiefly
to hold down wages and procure young talent.
This story contains material from Newsday.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  August 14, 1996 Wednesday WISCONSIN EDITION

MEXICAN RESTAURANT OWNER ADMITS HIRING ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 245 words

DATELINE: FOND DU LAC, Wis.


A Fond du Lac businessman faces sentencing this fall on a charge of aiding
illegal aliens he employed at his Mexican restaurant.

Victor Cortez, 32, owner of Mazatlan Restaurant, told The Reporter of Fond du
Lac on Tuesday that he never again will help illegal aliens by giving them work.

"They're (other aliens) not going to be getting any job. No way," he said.

Commenting that the investigation was "a long time ago," Cortez said the
restaurant has remained open and enjoyed good business.

Cortez pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court last Friday to a charge of
harboring and assisting illegal aliens.

Sentencing is scheduled Oct. 16. The charge carries a maximum penalty of five
years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

Evidence produced in court showed Cortez assisted illegal aliens - persons who
had illegally entered the country from Mexico - in obtaining fraudulent
identification documents, including passports.

Cortez told investigators he employed six aliens in his restaurant, paying them
only in cash.

The workers, who are friends of Cortez, were cooks, earning a wage of about $6
an hour, Cortez told The Reporter.

U.S. Attorney Thomas Schneider of Milwaukee said public debate has centered on
illegal aliens, but much of the problem would not exist without employers who
illegally hire and exploit the workers.

"This case demonstrates our commitment to criminally prosecuting employers who
hire illegal aliens," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  July 17, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

OFFICIAL CAUGHT WITH PASSPORTS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The top U.S. immigration official in Honduras was arrested in Hong Kong as part
of an investigation into an alleged ring smuggling aliens from China into the
United States via Central America, the Justice Department said Tuesday. Jerry
Wolf Stuchiner, a 19-year veteran of the immigration service, was arrested
Monday as he arrived in Hong Kong using a U.S. diplomatic passport and carrying
five fraudulent Honduran passports, said Michael Bromwich, Justice's inspector
general. The arrest was made by the Hong Kong Independent Commission Against
Corruption, which had joined the inspector general's office in investigating the
ring. Also arrested was a Salvadoran woman traveling with Stuchiner.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  August 15, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

NEW LAW PANICS LEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
INS MUST DEPORT PEOPLE WITH MINOR PAST CONVICTIONS

BYLINE: BYLINE: DAN BROWNING, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 823 words


Should a 10-year-old weapons charge in Northern Ireland prompt deportation of a
productive, law-abiding, legal resident of the United States?

Probably so, according an obscure provision of the Anti-Terrorism and Effective
Death Penalty Act, which President Bill Clinton signed into law April 24.

In essence, the law requires the INS to deport any immigrant who is not a
naturalized citizen if it learns that the person was convicted of crimes ranging
from prostitution to murder, regardless of whether the conviction occurred in
the United States or in other nations.

Lawyers in Minnesota say a provision slipped into the anti-terrorism bill at the
last minute has prompted a deluge of cases involving immigrants who may now be
deported because of prior criminal convictions, some of them minor offenses and
many years old.

"We've been...in an absolute state of chaos since April 24th," said Michael
Davis, an immigration specialist with the Minneapolis law firm of Ingber &
Aronson. Davis chairs the deportation and investigative committee for the
Minnesota chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, and was chair
of the Minnesota State Bar Association's immigration law section from 1992 to
1994.

"Last night, I was here at office until 11 p.m." working on cases resulting from
the new law, Davis said. "The night before, I slept two hours. You can't even
get in to see me for an appointment for like, two weeks at least, because we
can't keep up. And everybody we speak with is in the same circumstances," he
said.

"This change in law, and other changes Congress is talking about right now with
respect to immigrants, has people in a state of panic."

Mark Cangemi, a spokesman for the Twin Cities office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which covers Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota,
said his office has seen a jump in the percentage of immigrants apprehended who
have criminal pasts, from about 20 percent last year to about 50 percent so far
this year.

Cangemi couldn't explain what was driving the increase, other than increased
cooperation with regional law enforcement agencies and a crackdown on drug
smuggling. But whatever the cause, those numbers, in combination with the
anti-terrorism law and the anti-drug abuse act of 1990, are straining the
resources of his office, he said.

"We're not looking for any additional business," Cangemi said.

In fiscal year 1995, the Minnesota INS office arrested 1,202 immigrants and
placed them in deportation proceedings, Cangemi said. Of those, 234 had previous
criminal convictions of any type, and of those, 170 were convicted felons, he
said. Most of the latter were probably narcotics cases, "so you could say that
20 percent of our caseload had to do with criminal aliens," Cangemi said.

Through Wednesday of this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 31, the Minnesota INS
office had apprehended 948 immigrants. Of those, 411 had some type of criminal
history, and of those, 279 were felons, Cangemi said. "So almost half have
criminal history," Cangemi noted.

Those numbers may have a significant impact on the local INS office because the
anti-terrorism law expanded the laundry list of crimes that mandate deportation,
requires the INS to hold such suspects without bond and stripped judges of the
discretion to grant waivers for immigrants who can demonstrate they are reformed
and living productive lives in the United States.

The Board of Immigration Appeals has ruled that any immigrant who did not
already have a waiver request pending on April 24, when Clinton signed the
anti-terrorism bill into law, will no longer be eligible for a waiver.

Even the INS has said the law may go too far. David A. Martin, INS general
counsel, told the New York Times last month the immigration service would like
to see judges recoup some of their discretionary authority.

Whether that could happen during this election season, when immigrants have
found themselves targeted as the root of social disruption - particularly in the
electoral college-rich Southwest - is questionable.

"Clearly, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is positioning itself to
handle that (issue), but I think the Republicans see the opportunity,
particularly in California, to paint the administration as unsympathetic to the
plight of Californians" who are reeling from the negative impacts of illegal
immigration, said John Martin, special projects director for the Federation of
American Immigration Reform, an lobby group based in Washington.

Despite the politics, lawyers like Davis remain hopeful that Congress will
soften the law and stop likening small-time criminals with terrorists.

He describes a young client with "a few petty theft" convictions and a weapons
offense, whom Davis believes should get a waiver from deportation. "He was
sitting on the balcony of his house shooting a BB gun at some birds," Davis
explained.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   August 26, 1996 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

MORE IMMIGRANTS RUSH TO SAY, 'I'M AMERICAN'

BYLINE: BYLINE: BRIAN BONNER, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 991 words


Led by people born in Laos and Vietnam, with names like Nguyen, Her and
Manivanh, the rush is on in Minnesota to become U.S. citizens.

Naturalization ceremonies have nearly doubled since 1994. During the federal
budget year that ends Sept. 30, nearly 5,300 state residents will have taken the
oath of U.S. citizenship. Federal judges are swearing in groups as often as six
times a month.

The single largest ceremony this year, with 1,000 participants, will take place
Friday at the Minnesota State Fair.

The surge is driven by several factors, including a desire to protect
eligibility for U.S. government assistance. The new federal welfare law cuts
many benefits, including Supplemental Security Income grants and food stamps, to
noncitizen immigrants.

The SSI cuts will hit the immigrant community hard, since Southeast Asian
natives are among the most numerous foreign-born recipients of SSI payments,
which average $400 monthly.

Nationally, an estimated 500,000 legal immigrants are expected to lose their SSI
benefits, according to the National Senior Citizens Law Center.

Refugees are exempt from cutbacks during their first five years in the United
States. Termination from aid programs begins next year for recipients made
ineligible by the law, enacted Thursday with President Clinton's signature.

In Minnesota, where at least 50,000 Southeast Asian immigrants - and likely many
more - have made their homes, the naturalization trend shows no sign of abating.

"We're just deluged," said Michelle Egan, a district officer for the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Bloomington. Nationally, the story is
the same: A record 1 million or more naturalizations are expected this year
alone.

Even immigrants who don't get welfare said the new law - in the works for more
than a year - has prompted them to secure citizenship rights, so that they can
fully participate in American life.

"It's marvelous," said Blong Moua, who became a U.S. citizen Wednesday. "I feel
different. I feel like I have more obligation and more opportunity."

Moua, a computer programmer, took his oath in the Minneapolis federal courthouse
from U.S. District Judge Ann Montgomery. Moua, a Laotian Hmong, arrived in
America in 1979 as a Vietnam War refugee. But he put off getting his citizenship
because, "I couldn't find the time to go and do it."

For some, citizenship merely eliminates day-to-day identification hassles in the
United States and allows them to travel abroad with a U.S. passport. For others,
it takes on deep meaning.

Citizens have the right to vote and hold federal government jobs. They are also
able to sponsor more types of relatives abroad for U.S. residency, and to have
those applications processed more speedily. Also, children under 18 may
automatically become citizens when their parents naturalize.

"Just say 'I'm American,' and that's the magic word," said Selina Graves, a
Panama native who is studying for her naturalization exam at the International
Institute of Minnesota in St. Paul.

Graves said her institute instructor, Sondra Rosen, has "inspired me to love
history...I learned a lot of things about America. You have to earn that
knowledge, that history."

Classmate Margaret Tay, born in Ghana, agreed. "It's important to see what
others have given up for us," Tay said. "Everyone's an immigrant, so they should
remove those labels: 'foreigners, aliens.' "

A lawful permanent resident of the United States is eligible to apply for
citizenship five years after coming to the United States. The requirement is
three years for someone married to a U.S. citizen. A person must demonstrate
good moral standing, such as no convictions for a serious crime.

The application cost is $95. Several forms must be filled out, and fingerprints
and photographs submitted. The local address of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service is: 2901 Metro Drive, Suite 100, Bloomington, Minn.
55425.

In most cases, a basic understanding of how to read, write and speak English is
essential for naturalization. Exemptions are granted for people over 50 with at
least 20 years of permanent lawful U.S. residency, or over 55 with at least 15
years of residency.

Applicants must also learn the basics of American history and the nation's
guiding principles.

They must pass a written and oral civics test during an interview with an
immigration service officer. Or they must pass a standardized, multiple-choice
Educational Testing Service exam. That test can be taken at the International
Institute of Minnesota in St. Paul for a $30 fee.

It is a popular method. "We test 80 people a month and have been doing that for
almost a year now," said Jane Graupman, the institute's education supervisor.

The types of questions asked by the immigration service include: What country
did we fight during the Revolutionary War? What is the Bill of Rights? What kind
of government does the United States have? To study for the exam, the
International Institute offers preparatory classes for $35.

An interview with U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officers is
mandatory for all applicants. The whole process can take six months or longer,
although Commissioner Doris Meissner is attempting to speed it up.

"It happened to be one of our commissioner's priorities this year," said Bill
Adams, a supervisory district adjudications officer in Bloomington.

INTERNATIONAL DAY

About 1,000 people will become naturalized U.S. citizens in a ceremony at 6:30
p.m. Friday at the Grain Belt Premium Bandshell at the Minnesota State Fair.

LIVING IN MINNESOTA

Naturalized U.S. citizens living in Minnesota:

1994: 2,837

1995: 3,973

1996: 5,282

Top five birth nations of naturalized U.S. citizens living in Minnesota:

Laos: 19 percent

Vietnam: 17 percent

Mexico: 6 percent

Cambodia: 4 percent

Canada: 4 percent
Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janet Hostetter, Pioneer Press
At naturalization proceedings at the U.S. Federal Courthouse in Minneapolis,
Judge Ann Montgomery asked new citizens to identify themselves by their home
continents. Here, she asked for a show of hands of people born in Asia.

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  August 27, 1996 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

NONPROFIT COUNCIL'S BRIEF ON WELFARE DRAWS CROWD;
SOME CHANGES EFFECTIVE IN JANUARY

BYLINE: BYLINE: MARIA DOUGLAS REEVE, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 562 words


Adults without children, legal immigrants, and disabled and elderly people will
feel the earliest and perhaps the harshest of the effects of overhauling the
welfare system in Minnesota.

This week, nonprofit organizations, the private sector and government are
attempting to gauge what they can do and what collaboration will be needed for
the state to make it through the transition required by the welfare bill signed
last week by President Clinton.

The urgency of developing a plan was clear at a briefing sponsored Monday by the
Minnesota Council of Nonprofits, the Legal Services Advocacy Project and 16
other private and public agencies: Organizers expected a crowd of about 80 to
show up, but 350 people came, eager to get an explanation of what the federal
welfare bill means for Minnesota.

As soon as the beginning of the year, many adults without children will be cut
off food stamps. The new law limits eligibility to three months if the recipient
is not working at least 20 hours a week.

Legal immigrants also will feel the effects sooner rather than later. Those
coming into the country now will not be eligible for Aid to Families with
Dependent Children, food stamps, disability assistance or Medical Assistance for
five years.

Legal immigrants already in the country will not be given disability assistance
or food stamps and the state can decide whether to give AFDC or Medical
Assistance.

The rule affects all immigrants who are not refugees or seeking asylum -
providing some relief for Hmong refugees in Minnesota.

Deborah Huskins, assistant commissioner of economic and community support
strategies for the state Human Services Department, said the end of AFDC and the
introduction of the block grants forces the state to "decide what kind of
welfare system we want for children and families."

The state will not experience dramatically reduced funding for one to two years.

In the meantime, policy makers will be deciding which programs that are
currently in place will work and which won't under the new federal law.

The state's flagship reform effort is the Minnesota Family Investment Plan, a
pilot program started in seven counties two years ago and in Ramsey County on
July 1.

That plan works on four principles: Work should pay as much or more than
welfare; families, along with the government, have the responsibility to do what
they can to end the need for assistance; families should be strengthened; and
administration of the program should be simplified.

The state received a federal waiver last week to implement the program
statewide.

The cost of the program, especially for job training and education, will be
considered in an evaluation of which parts a waiver may affect and which it
makes sense to keep.

"I don't know what, if anything, will be more flexible for Minnesota," Huskins
said. "We applied with the thought that it might open some options."

Marcia Keller Avner, with the Minnesota Council of Non-Profits, said the
legislation means hard choices for the state.

"Private philanthropy, personal donations and churches will not be able to make
up the difference in federal welfare cuts," she said, adding that the large
turnout was a "very clear statement from nonprofits and the public sector that
we have to be collaborative and look with as much creativity and responsibility
as we can."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 September 27, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

CLINTON TARGETS IMMIGRATION BILL

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Setting up a confrontation with Republican leaders, the White House indicated
Thursday that President Clinton would withhold his support for a must-pass
spending bill until the GOP agrees to amend separate immigration legislation.
The immigration bill, which cleared the House Wednesday and awaits Senate
action, would beef up border security, clamp down on benefits to both legal and
illegal immigrants and impose stricter penalties on smugglers and document
forgers. By threatening to hold up the spending bill, which would keep much of
the government running beyond the end of the month, Clinton seeks to tone down
provisions dealing with legal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                September 28, 1996 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

LAW SENDS IMMIGRANTS SCRAMBLING;
MEASURE IS 'PUNITIVE,' SAY MANY HISPANIC RESIDENTS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Pat Burson, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 827 words


After living legally in the United States for 17 years, Ileana Mayer last March
became a citizen more out of anxiety than anything else.

Mayer, a native of Nicaragua who is married and lives in suburban Minneapolis,
was convinced of that after hearing reports that federal lawmakers were about to
sign legislation aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration that also
contained provisions that would curb benefits for legal immigrants.

"It made me realize I'm vulnerable right now," she said.

The bill, passed Wednesday by the House by nearly a three-to-one margin,
includes a number of provisions pertaining to legal immigrants, one of which
would increase up to 100 percent the minimum income U.S. residents would have to
earn before they could sponsor a family member for immigration.

Democrats and Republicans are debating the measure in the Senate.

Another provision in the bill would tighten eligibility requirements for
Medicaid and make legal immigrants who receive a year of welfare benefits during
their first seven years here subject to deportation.

"This is outrageous. This is a punitive law," said Margarita Zalamea, executive
director of the state of Minnesota's Chicano Latino Affairs Council, who
received dozens of calls and urgent faxes this week from local agencies that
work with immigrants who are concerned about the proposals.

"This is about families being kept apart from one another," she said. "Right now
there's such a bad climate toward those who are not U.S. citizens. If they are
going to start messing around with our rights as U.S. citizens, what's next?"

The council is urging people to call U.S. Sens. Paul Wellstone and Rod Grams and
the White House to object to the proposals.

Immigrants also are being encouraged to join a march for immigrant rights
planned for Oct. 12 in Washington, D.C. Organizers have planned a 6 p.m. public
forum tonight to discuss the march at St. Stephens School at 2211 Clinton Ave.
S, Minneapolis. Among the speakers will be Oscar Tellez of Chicago, who is one
of the national organizers of the march led by Cordinadora '96, a group based in
Los Angeles.

Topics will include welfare reform, attacks on immigration rights, deportations,
immigration raids and access to education and public health.

To reach the local organizing effort, Cordinadora '96 Minnesota, call 348-8550.
The local group plans to send about 50 people by bus to Washington.

One person planning to attend the march in Washington is Eduardo Barrera, who is
hoping 170 people would be willing to pay $165 plus tax to charter a plane from
Minnesota.

If he can't get 170 people, Barrera said he will go alone.

"We want to go to Washington and show that we are united and we are going to
fight for our rights and to be treated with dignity and respect," Barrera said,
likening the planned march to last year's Million Man March that drew hundreds
of thousands of African-Americans to the Lincoln Memorial.

"I want my community to participate in this, and I want the community to get the
respect that we deserve. Since this is an election year, obviously some
politicians are using us (immigrants) and using this time of elections to pass
all these bills."

After studying together for about six months to prepare for the citizenship
test, Mayer and her 74-year-old mother, who has been in the United States for
about 11 or 12 years, took the oath during swearing-in ceremony in Minneapolis
on March 20. They are among the hundreds of legal immigrants in Minnesota who
have decided to become citizens because of an increased sense of vulnerability.

According to Dean Hove, acting district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Bloomington, 3,669 people became citizens during
fiscal 1994, 5,408 in fiscal 1995, and this year more than 7,000 are expected to
take the oath.

"If the immigration bill passes, we expect an even greater increase next year,"
Hove said.

For Mayer, an international sales representative for a Twin-Cities-based two-way
radio communications company, the biggest issue was knowing that she would have
to resign citizenship in Nicaragua.

"It's a very serious and dramatic experience when they make you swear that this
is the only country," she said. "It's kind of emotional."

But she is happy she made the decision to become a citizen and is anxious to
vote in the November elections. "I'm going to be part of the decision-making in
this country. Before, I was an observer," she said. "I can hardly wait. If I
happen to be out of the country, I'm going to get an absentee ballot."

Taking action

Organizers of the Oct. 12 march in Washington, D.C., will hold a 6 p.m. public
forum tonight at St. Stephens School, 2211 Clinton Ave. S, Minneapolis. Topics
will include welfare reform, attacks on immigration rights, deportations,
immigration raids and access to education and public health. To reach
Cordinadora '96 Minnesota, call 348-8550.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  October 1, 1996 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

FINANCIER OFFERS $50 MILLION TO AID IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BYLINE: MICHELLE MITTELSTADT, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Upset by what he calls a "mean-spirited" welfare overhaul that denies food
stamps and other federal aid to legal immigrants, billionaire George Soros is
offering $50 million to help lawful newcomers harmed by the law.

"There are real people out there being hurt; that is what I am responding to,"
the Hungarian-born financier said at a news conference as he announced his Emma
Lazarus Fund. It is named for the poet whose words are inscribed on the Statue
of Liberty: "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to
breathe free. ... "

The idea, he told reporters, is to provide direct assistance for services that
help people qualify for citizenship - payment for English-language instruction,
civic education, even the $95 fee required for naturalization. Citizenship,
which takes a minimum of five years of residency, brings with it access to
assistance denied to noncitizens under the Republican-drafted bill that
President Clinton reluctantly signed into law in August.

"We want to spend the bulk of the money on the people themselves," he said,
noting that the money will be available immediately and that community-based
groups helping legal immigrants can apply for grants.

Soros, who left Hungary in 1947 for England, said he knows what it's like to
need the government safety net. While working as a railroad porter in England,
he broke a leg. Without access to the British health care system, "I couldn't
have taken care of myself," he said.

He moved to the United States in 1956 and became a citizen in the early 1960s.
Forbes magazine has estimated his wealth now at $2.5 billion. His foundations
have given hundreds of millions of dollars to emerging democracies in the former
Soviet bloc, South Africa, Haiti and Burma.

Immigrant-advocacy groups hailed his gift.

"It's substantively important in that if it's done right - and we have every
expectation that it will be - this will help people retain access to benefits,"
said Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic-rights group that fought the welfare changes.

Soros said he hopes the gift will mobilize others worried about the effects of
the welfare law. "I feel very strongly that it goes against the spirit of our
Constitution, and probably also the letter," he said.

Under the law, some 900,000 of the more than 9.6 million noncitizens living
legally in the United States will lose their food stamps, officials estimate.
Another 500,000 elderly or disabled immigrants could lose Supplemental Security
Income benefits.

In addition, new arrivals are ineligible for most federal benefits during their
first five years of residence.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 1996



CORRECTION: A report in Tuesday's Pioneer Press was incorrect regarding
immigrants' loss of federal social service benefits. Immigrants who will lose
food stamps and Supplemental Security Income are non-citizens who are not
refugees fleeing persecution, have not served in the U.S. military or have not
accumulated 40 quarters of work history. Refugees also will lose the benefits if
they have been here five years or longer and have not become citizens.
Thursday, October 3, 1996

GRAPHIC: Photo
George Soros

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  October 1, 1996 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

SENATE, CLINTON BEAT THE CLOCK ON SPENDING BILL, AVOID SHUTDOWN

BYLINE: BYLINE: ALAN FRAM, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With just hours to spare Monday, the Senate passed and President Clinton signed
a $389 billion spending bill for scores of federal agencies and a tightening of
immigration laws, the 104th Congress' last major legislation.

Clinton signed the measure little more than two hours before today's start of
the 1997 fiscal year, ensuring there would be no repeat of last year's partial
government shutdown when agencies' spending authority lapsed.

The catchall bill, approved 84-15 by the Senate, contains $6.5 billion in extra
money that Clinton demanded for education, drug fighting and other programs. It
pushes overall spending nearly as high as it was before Republicans captured
Congress two years ago.

It also drops GOP-written immigration provisions the White House argued were too
severe, such as one barring federally paid AIDS care for illegal immigrants.

Forty-six Democrats and 38 Republicans voted for the catchall legislation in the
Senate, while one Democrat and 14 Republicans opposed it. Sen. Paul Wellstone,
D-Minn., voted for it, and Sen. Rod Grams, R-Minn., voted against.

The House approved the measure Saturday night, 370-37, and with a pre-election
adjournment approaching, most of its members left Washington.

Senators saw their hopes for quick adjournment dashed by a dispute over a
separate bill authorizing air traffic systems. Democrats complained that it
contained language to help Federal Express prevent its truck drivers from
unionizing. They used parliamentary tactics to delay a vote until Thursday,
which gave them time to debate the Federal Express language.

Also percolating was a parks bill making dozens of land exchanges, boundary
changes and new designations of memorials and historic sites. Most were not
controversial, but behind-the-scenes battles over adding additional provisions
persisted. The House approved it Saturday, 404-4.

After winning GOP concessions on the spending and immigration measures,
Democrats decided "that we ought to quit while we're ahead," said Senate
Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D.

"Democrats recognize we won a great deal in here in terms of the president's
priorities and their priorities, and it's important to get this done ... and get
back to their constituents," White House chief of staff Leon Panetta told
reporters after lunching with Senate Democrats.

Republicans said the two-year Congress had stayed the budget-cutting course the
GOP had promised, even though the White House won extra spending in
round-the-clock talks that ended at dawn Saturday.

"Along the way, did we have to make some compromises to get our work product
done? Yes. But we got it done," said Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.

The spending and immigration measures were combined into a single bill. Congress
already had completed seven of the 13 annual spending bills, leaving six that
were wrapped into this measure.

It would finance nine Cabinet-level departments - Commerce, Defense, Education,
Health and Human Services, Interior, Justice, Labor, State and Treasury - plus
other lower-level agencies. It contained $244 billion for defense and
$145billion for domestic programs.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wilfredo Lee, Associated Press
Acting budget director Franklin Raines, left, and White House chief of staff
Leon Panetta share a laugh while meeting with reporters to discuss the federal
budget Monday in the White House briefing room. The federal government's new
fiscal year begins today.

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   October 4, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

INS TAKES MOLESTER INTO CUSTODY

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 196 words

DATELINE: La Crosse, Wis.


A Hmong child molester who sparked outrage after he was placed on probation for
24 years and ordered to continue to learn English was taken into custody
Thursday by U.S. immigration officials.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service began deportation proceedings against
Sia Ye Vang after he was convicted in July of four counts of first-degree sexual
assault of his then 10- and 11-year-old stepdaughters, said Gail Montenegro, an
INS spokeswoman in Chicago.

Anyone convicted of a felony is subject to deportation, officials said.

He has the right to a hearing before an immigration judge within seven days.

The girls testified they had been assaulted by Vang, 32, at their home between
1992 and 1994.

Vang, of Detroit, was placed on probation on the condition that he continue
taking English classes, remain employed, perform 1,000 hours of community
service and stay away from the victims.

The sentence angered many people, including state Sen. Alberta Darling, R-River
Hills, who said she would introduce legislation requiring a minimum one-year
sentence for convicted sex offenders.

The judge defended the ruling as a "true and just decision."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 October 12, 1996 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

LATINOS TO MARCH FOR CIVIL RIGHTS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 61 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Thousands of Latinos, spurred by the new welfare and immigration laws and what
they see as a rising tide of anti-immigrant feeling, were rallying around the
country and preparing to march today in the capital. The first march for Latino
and immigrant rights calls for a streamlined citizenship process, extended
immigrant amnesty and a $7 hourly minimum wage.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 19, 1997 Sunday

REFUGEES DECRY PLANNED WELFARE CUTOFF;
LEGAL IMMIGRANTS FEAR FUTURE, CITIZENSHIP TEST

BYLINE: CHIP JOHNSON, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO; Reworking Welfare; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 659 words


Using a mop handle for a cane and winded from the short walk to the microphone,
Xia Pao Vang stood at a St. Paul community meeting on Saturday to voice a
question that weighs heavily on the minds of thousands of elderly Hmong
residents in Minnesota.

"What will become of me?" asked Vang, who turns 83 on April 4, three days after
new welfare laws make him ineligible for federal Supplemental Security Income.

State legislators and officials from Ramsey County's Human Services Department
attended the meeting at the McDonough Homes gymnasium to hear residents'
concerns about federal welfare law changes.

Vang and the other residents who spoke at the meeting used an interpreter to
communicate.

Under federal welfare laws that take effect throughout the year, legal
immigrants who have lived in the United States for more than five years will be
cut from the welfare rolls. State officials estimate the new law could result in
the loss of benefits for up to 15,000 legal immigrants.

President Clinton in November said he would push to restore a portion of federal
welfare funds for legal immigrants and children. Nonetheless, fears of losing
meager incomes loom large in the Hmong and Cambodian communities in St. Paul.

More than anything, Vang and the other speakers expressed a strong desire to
become U.S. citizens, a status that could make them eligible once again for
federal benefits. But for many elderly people, learning enough English to pass
the citizenship test is unlikely, most agree.

At this stage of his life, Vang told Sens. Ellen Anderson, DFL-St. Paul, and
David Ten Eyck, DFL-Bemidji, he struggled to remember much of his own native
language; he wondered whether the citizenship test could be waived.

As sympathetic as they are to the sensitive position of this group of residents,
none of the state or county officials could make any promises, other than to
share the stories they heard and carry the message to the state Capitol.

"Keep telling your stories," Ten Eyck urged residents. "They are compelling
stories that need to be told."

So the meeting, sponsored by the McDonough Organization with Respect and Equity,
focused on the compelling testimonials from people who fear the not-too-distant
future.

Many times during the three-hour meeting, speakers and people in the crowd broke
down and wept as the immigrants' situations were described. More often than not,
their frustration centered on their inability to retain enough information to
pass the citizenship test.

"I want to incorporate myself with the rest of the American people," said Nok
Phong, 72. "How can I survive without passing the citizenship test? I am going
to die."

Va Yang said she sat home, consumed by the fear of losing her income.

"If you love old people like us, can you help us? We need your help," she said.

Richard Breitman, a Minneapolis immigration lawyer, said there is a limited
range of special circumstances when portions of the citizenship test can be
waived.

Typically, citizenship applicants are required to answer questions about written
and spoken English and complete a civics section, Breitman said.

Sia Lo, a recent law school graduate and the son of Hmong immigrants, silenced
the crowd when he spoke about the struggle of his people for freedom, their
contributions to the United States in the Vietnam War and their flight from
persecution in their homelands.

"We didn't come to this country to receive SSI. We came here because of a war,
and because we wanted to be free," he said.

"We fought for you, we rescued your pilots, put our lives on the line. We only
ask for food to eat so we can be a nation again," Lo said.

"Why would you take the food we need to live? Take our shelter. We have no place
to go."

Expecting elderly people to learn English at this stage of their lives would be
an impossible task, he said.

His own mother took the test seven times before she passed, Lo said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 3, 1997 Monday

SOME IMMIGRANTS NEED WELFARE HELP, GOVERNORS DECLARE;
COMPROMISE EMERGES AFTER DEBATES OVER IMPACT ON LAW

BYLINE: LAURA MECKLER, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Reworking Welfare; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 511 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Governors agreed Sunday that Congress should restore welfare benefits to some
immigrants, breaking a partisan stalemate over whether that would lead to other
changes to last year's historic legislation.

Their resolution replaced a draft statement that called on Congress to restore
disability and food stamp benefits to legal immigrants who are too old or sick
to ever become citizens or those who are waiting to become citizens.

Under pressure from congressional Republicans, Republican governors insisted on
softening the call for immigrant benefits.

The new resolution urges Congress and the Clinton administration to "ensure that
the immigration system and its requirements are fair to both citizens and
non-citizens" and to "meet the needs" of those who cannot become citizens.

It also asserts that "an equitable solution to this issue could be achieved
without reopening the statute." Governors explained that this could mean giving
some states money through the budget process without changing the law banning
federal payments to immigrants.

After the governors' meeting opened Saturday, the Republican Governors'
Association said it would not support anything that would mean reopening the
welfare law.

But Republicans with large immigrant populations in their states, including New
York, California and Illinois, joined Democrats in insisting they ask for help
dealing with the needs of poor, legal immigrants.

During a governors-only lunch Sunday, the group agreed to work toward a
bipartisan compromise, and a small group of governors reached a deal by late
afternoon. The group included the governors of Florida, California and New York,
where there are large immigrant populations, along with Republican John Engler
of Michigan, who vigorously opposed reopening the welfare bill.

New York Gov. George Pataki, a Republican who held a press conference last month
calling for benefits to be restored, said the lunch meeting gave him and others
a chance to articulate their concerns about this "very important issue."

"It's too important to worry about the wording of a resolution. I'm worried
about a resolution to the problem," he said. "I'd like to see this not become a
partisan football."

Governors avoided that by adopting a policy calling for changes to the welfare
law but also saying changes are not necessarily needed.

Asked about this contradiction, Gov. Pete Wilson, R-Calif., acknowledged the
mixed message. "You got it," he said.

The committee also called for other changes to the welfare law that are less
controversial - at least among governors. Those include loosening the five-year
time limit on assistance, lifting restrictions on how states spend federal money
and removing punishments to states that fail to put enough welfare recipients
into work.

The governors plan to meet today with Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott,
R-Miss., who has said he opposes significant new funding for welfare. They'll
also meet with President Clinton, who wants about $13 billion over six years for
aid to immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 15, 1997 Saturday

U.S. TO FREE ASYLUM SEEKERS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Fifty-three Chinese nationals jailed by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service since 1993 are being released, the Clinton administration announced late
Friday. The aliens had been awaiting decisions on their requests for political
asylum since the freighter trying to smuggle them into the United States ran
aground off New York City in June 1993. Ten of the 277 passengers aboard the
Golden Venture died trying to swim ashore. The detainees will be paroled by
March 1, but their immigration status will be left to the courts.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 23, 1997 Sunday

THOUSANDS OF FRENCH PROTEST NEW IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION;
OPPONENTS SAY BILL MAKES SCAPEGOATS OF SOME IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MATTHEW GLEDHILL, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Tens of thousands of people marched Saturday to protest a new immigration bill
that opponents claim makes foreigners scapegoats for French ills.

When the march ended, about 300 illegal immigrants, mainly from Asia, occupied a
church in eastern Paris. A similar action by immigrants at another church last
summer became a crisis for the conservative government. The standoff dragged on
for weeks until police hauled off the occupiers, to the anger of many.

The protest march came even though the government eliminated the most contested
part of the proposed law. For many people, the bill has become a symbol of a
climate of growing intolerance in France.

"This is against a state of mind that says immigrants are automatically guilty
of the problems in our society," French director Bertrand Tavernier said. "This
started a long time ago."

Police initially put the number of demonstrators at 20,000. Organizers had
predicted up to 100,000 people would join the march, a festive gathering of
young and old with music and chants.

A group of well-known French film directors said last week they would disobey
the law that obliges them to inform authorities about the movements of
foreigners staying at their homes.

Visitors from the United States and most other industrialized countries are
exempt from the regulations. The bill is designed to curtail immigration from
Arab and African countries that are former French colonies.

The call to civil disobedience has since been joined by French intellectuals,
celebrities and others, including some judges and police. On Saturday, they were
joined by the bishop of Clermont-Ferrand, in central France.

The legislation and the hostile response to it reflects a deepening division in
France between those opposed to such anti-immigration measures and a growing
number of people who favor these and even tighter restrictions.

The far-right National Front won a fourth civic election, in the southern town
of Vitrolles, earlier this month. The party, which blames crime and France's
record 12.7 unemployment rate on immigration, wants to deport North African
immigrants.

Under an amendment proposed Wednesday, French citizens would not be required to
declare the guests' departure.

The amendment would put responsibility for foreign visitors in the hands of
state-appointed governors instead of mayors.

Some likened the bill to France's collaboration with the Nazis under the Vichy
regime of World War II.

One poster bore a portrait of Marshall Philippe Petain, the leader of the Vichy
regime.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacques Brinon, Associated Press
A man carries his daughter on his shoulder during a demonstration
Saturday in Paris to protest a new immigration bill that opponents
claim blames foreigners as scapegoats for French ills. Despite
last-minute changes watering down the bill, the protest took on a life
of its own.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 27, 1997 Thursday

ALL ABOARD THE CITIZEN SHIP;
THE RUSH FOR NATURALIZATION, DRIVEN PARTLY BY NEW WELFARE RULES, IS KEEPING INS
OFFICES IN THE TWIN CITIES BUSY. BUT MANY OLDER, NON-ENGLISH-SPEAKING RESIDENTS
MAY BE LEFT BEHIND.

BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1290 words


It's the year of the flood all right - a flood of legal immigrants and refugees
applying for U.S. citizenship. In Bloomington, they crowd the waiting rooms and
line the corridors of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service's district
office.

Don't bother calling. Immigration service officials say they don't have the
staff to answer most calls, so people must go to the office on 2901 Metro Drive,
near the Mall of America.

"What we're doing is losing ground," said Bill Adams, a district INS official.
The processing lag of six months, Adams said, could stretch longer because of
the influx. Currently, 4,463 cases are pending.

Altogether, as many as 10,000 Minnesota residents could apply for U.S.
citizenship in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. If that happens, last year's
record number of newly naturalized citizens - about 5,300 - will be easily
eclipsed.

The new federal welfare cuts are behind much of the surge. Most noncitizens are
ineligible for such benefits as Supplemental Security Income grants and food
stamps. Unless they become U.S. citizens, most noncitizens will lose the monthly
SSI grants by Aug. 22. The state's elderly Southeast Asian refugees are
particularly dependent on the grants, which average less than $500 a month.

But securing federal aid is only one motivation.

Upgrading legal status is like going from coach to first class in American life.
Citizens can vote. Noncitizens cannot. Citizens get preferential treatment if
they want a relative living abroad to come to the United States. Noncitizens
don't. Citizens cannot be deported for crimes committed. Noncitizens can.

U.S. immigration officials see some good in the scramble for citizenship, even
though it means heavier workloads for them.

"Many of the ethnic groups have lived within their own communities and many
times have not learned the English language because the need wasn't there," said
Dean Hove, INS acting district director. "They never thought it was going to be
necessary to become citizens.

"The new welfare legislation has changed their focus. It's going to have a major
impact. It's going to make people much more likely to adapt to our society than
they were in the past. They're going to get out of their comfort zone a little
bit. Because of that, they might be more likely to end up in gainful employment
as well. I guess that's the whole purpose of it."

Despite the long lines and delays, Minnesota officials are speedier at
processing applications than regional officials in such immigrant-saturated
states as New York, California and Texas.

Locally, there also is a modest, fairly well-defined upper limit: One INS
official estimated that Minnesota has only 75,000 legal permanent residents, of
whom 40,000 are eligible to seek U.S. citizenship.

But many noncitizens aren't able to meet the requirements for U.S. citizenship,
particularly those requiring proficiency in the English language.

The parents of Sabab Xayarath, 28, of Eagan, are among that group. On a recent
day at the INS office, Xayarath waited in line for more than an hour to file his
parents' applications for U.S. citizenship.

But the Laotian got only bad news from INS information officer Louise Platt, who
screens applications and dishes out a plethora of forms such as the G-325, the
N-400, I-90 and the I-130.

Xayarath said his parents, Sorn and Muang, want to become U.S. citizens to
remain eligible for his father's $400 monthly SSI grant. Xayarath said the
Social Security Administration notified his father that the aid will be cut this
summer because he is not a citizen.

But when Xayarath got to the head of the line, the INS' Platt told him that his
parents don't speak English well enough to become naturalized citizens.
Therefore, Platt said, the INS would not accept the applications.

Despite being in their 60s, Xayarath's parents have only been in America for
eight years - not long enough to qualify for an exemption of the language
requirements.

Applicants need to be at least 55 years old and have legal residency of 15
years, or 50 years old with 20-year residency, to qualify for the
English-language waiver.

Xayarath said he doesn't believe his parents can learn enough English at this
stage in their lives.

"They learned before, but they can't remember it," Xayarath said. "I have no
idea what to do now, but they want to become American citizens."

Another person in the INS line was Hoi Pham, 63, a native of Vietnam. After more
than five years in the United States, Pham is finally eligible to seek U.S.
citizenship.

Although Pham speaks English haltingly, she has studied hard and thinks she will
pass the English tests. Pham was at the immigration center to get photographed
and fingerprinted for her FBI background check.

Because of a national flap over granting citizenships to aliens with
disqualifying criminal records, the INS no longer schedules citizenship
interviews until the background checks have been completed. The processing time
is now four months or longer.

For Pham, the delay means that - assuming she passes the other requirements -
she probably won't get to take the oath of citizenship until late this summer.
Fortunately for her, no loss in benefits is at stake. "I want to vote," Pham
said, explaining her desire to become a citizen.

Many ethnic minorities in Minnesota have organized to help each other get
through the citizenship process.

Kao Lee, editor of the monthly Hmong American Journal, is also an active member
of the Hmong American Alliance Church in St. Paul. The 2,000-member congregation
conducts citizenship classes to help train members about the citizenship
process.

"I have close to 100 students in my class," said Lee, who was at the INS office
the other day to serve as a volunteer translator for applicants who qualify for
the English-language waiver.

Various other organizations and agencies, such as the International Institute of
Minnesota in St. Paul, also offer citizenship classes.

To be eligible for U.S. citizenship, the basic requirements for most people -
besides paying a $95 application fee - are:

18 years of age or older;

three years of lawful permanent residency ("green card" holder), if married to a
U.S. citizen, and five years of legal residency if not;

ability to speak, read, write and understand ordinary English words and phrases.

ability to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of U.S.
history and principles of American government;

passing an FBI criminal background check;

an interview with an INS officer; and

ability to take and understand the oath of U.S. citizenship.

Some lawmakers and immigrant advocates are searching for ways to ease the
requirements for some noncitizens, especially those with physical and mentally
disabilities or other special circumstances.

For example, U.S. Rep. Bruce Vento, D-St. Paul, has attempted for years to
persuade Congress to pass legislation exempting Hmong veterans and their
families from the English tests.

Recently, the immigration service issued regulations that could lead to more
people qualifying for an language waiver on the basis of a mental or physical
disability.

Immigrant advocates had complained that the immigration service's interpretation
of a 1994 law was too narrow and that too few exemptions were granted. To
qualify, a physician must certify that a person suffers from a serious,
medically determinable physical or mental impairment. Post-traumatic stress
disorder, experienced by war veterans, does not qualify a person for the
exemption.

But Hove, the acting INS district director, expects that many Southeast Asians
might meet the requirements for such a waiver.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 Photos: Janet Hostetter, Pioneer Press
1) Record numbers of applicants for U.S. citizenship keep the waiting
rooms crowded at INS offices in Bloomington. Hoi Pham, from Vietnam,
passes the hours with her sister, Amy Pham, who is already a citizen.
[Photo appeared in MN edition]
2) Beverly Peterson, left, fingerprints Hoi Pham. Before citizenship
interviews can be scheduled, INS caseworkers must take applicant
fingerprints for FBI criminal background checks, a procedure
necessitated by a recent flap over criminals being naturalized.
3) U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service caseworker Beverly
Peterson, left, assists Hoi Pham before taking her photo, one step in
the naturalization process.
Graphic: Pioneer Press
Citizenship applications on the rise
The number of immigrants and refugees seeking U.S. citizenship is
on the rise in Minnesota. Last year, the U.S. immigration and
Naturalization Service said that a record 5,300 people were
naturalized. That total will be easily surpassed this year.
The number of Minnesota residents who applied for U.S. citizenship
in the last three fiscal years
In the first five months of the current fiscal year, the surge in
applicants continued. Applicants:
[See micro film for more detail]

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 2, 1997 Wednesday

NEW DEPORTATION LAW ENFORCED

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration agents Tuesday began enforcing new regulations designed to expedite
the deportation of foreign travelers trying to enter the United States with
fraudulent or missing documents. U.S. District Judge Emmet Sullivan rejected a
request from immigrant advocates to delay the regulations' implementation again.
On Monday, Sullivan ordered a four-day delay of the expedited deportation
regulations because they had been published in the Federal Register only 26 days
earlier, rather than the 30 as required. But the U.S. Court of Appeals
overturned his order early Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 5, 1997 Saturday

JUDGE REFUSES TO STOP NEW RULES FOR TURNING AWAY IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MICHELLE MITTELSTADT, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A federal judge refused Friday to block new rules allowing immigration officials
greater authority to turn away foreigners seeking political asylum in the United
States.

In the first of several planned challenges to the nation's new immigration law,
immigrant-rights lawyers asked U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan to block
expedited removal rules that took effect Tuesday.

They contend potential refugees will be improperly turned away - and returned to
the homelands they fled in fear - under unduly harsh regulations written by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Sullivan declined to grant the temporary restraining order sought on behalf of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association. Before getting to the merits of
the "significant and important" issues, Sullivan is giving the Justice
Department and immigrant-rights lawyers until mid-May to marshal their cases.

The Justice Department contends Sullivan's court has no jurisdiction to hear the
case. The immigration law passed last year by Congress sharply limits courts'
ability to review INS actions.

Lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union and Lawyers' Committee on Civil
Rights, who filed the legal challenge, expressed disappointment that the
restraining order wasn't granted.

"Obviously, we're disappointed because we believe there are people at the
airport right now who are being turned back," said Judy Rabinovitz, an attorney
with the ACLU's Immigrant Rights Project.

Rabinovitz and her colleagues argue the INS went well beyond Congress' intent in
drafting the expedited removal rules.

The regulations allow INS agents to refuse entry to travelers without documents
or with improper paperwork unless the refugees demonstrate a credible fear of
persecution if returned to their homelands.

Under the old law, asylum seekers were granted entry and given ample time to
file a claim, have a hearing before an immigration judge and to appeal the
judge's ruling. Now, immigration agents can decide such requests on the spot if
the traveler is carrying invalid or fraudulent documents.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              April 6, 1997 Sunday

DEPORTATION LAW THREATENS SOME HMONG;
NOW MANY NONVIOLENT CRIMES CAN LEAD TO NONCITIZENS' OUSTER

BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1600 words


Teng Lo could have avoided the crisis she is facing - possible deportation to
Laos - in one of two ways.

The Hmong woman, 37, could have simply obeyed the law. But in 1993, Lo was
convicted of possessing 16.8 grams of opium that she used as a painkiller. Lo
also could have avoided banishment another way: By becoming a naturalized U.S.
citizen.

American citizens cannot be deported. Noncitizens can be. As never before, that
lesson is being driven home to more Hmong who commit crimes. Like the unexploded
bombs that dot the landscape in their native Laos, the threat of deportation is
a latent but potent threat within the state's fast-growing, 35,000-member Hmong
community.

It puts many at risk of being sent back to the same regime that some of them, as
U.S. allies, waged war against in the Vietnam War.

Besides Lo, whose deportation hearing is scheduled for Monday at the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service's district office in Bloomington, dozens
of Laotian natives - including ethnic Lao - are facing deportation in Minnesota
alone.

"I've got about 85 who are in deportation proceedings," said Chuck Arendale, the
immigration service's assistant district director for detention and deportation.
Another 40 Laotians, Arendale said, have already been ordered back to Laos.

The sweeping new federal immigration law that went fully into effect April 1 all
but guarantees that the number of deportation proceedings - now called removal
hearings - will rise.

The new Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996
greatly expands the list of deportable offenses. It also limits appeals and
reduces a federal immigration judge's discretion to cancel, or waive,
deportations.

According to the American Immigration Lawyers Association, aggravated felons are
no longer eligible for such waivers. The waivers were granted for various
reasons, including strong family ties.

The definition of aggravated felon extends not only to serious crimes, but to
most drug crimes, many thefts and assaults, as well as sex with minors,
according to the Washington, D.C., group.

While the new immigration law applies to all noncitizens, it will be felt
acutely in the nation's 150,000-member Hmong community. Non-native Hmong have
been slow to become naturalized citizens. And some cultural habits formed in
Laos, such as opium use or teen-age marriages, have caused legal problems for
Hmong in America.

An increase in gang activity, moreover, will put increasing numbers of young
Hmong into deportation proceedings.

Karen Ellingson, managing attorney of Oficiana Legal, said she's already seeing
patterns among the noncitizen immigrants who come to the St. Paul agency for
legal help.

"The more common case, rather than Teng Lo, is a 20-year-old kid who's been here
since he was an infant. He grew up here. He knows nothing else," Ellingson said.
"He commits auto theft. He's absolutely out as well."

Beneath the hardline hoopla, however, is a more complicated reality - especially
for natives of Laos. Their Southeast Asian homeland currently does not accept
American deportees, unless they left the Lao People's Democratic Republic with
valid government passports.

Since most Laotian Hmong entered the United States as Vietnam War refugees, as
Lo did, the communist regime in Laos won't take them back. So even if an
immigration judge orders Lo deported, the federal government has nowhere to send
her. The immigration service could keep her in detention indefinitely. But
that's expensive.

More likely, Lo - a nonviolent offender - will be allowed go free on a small
bond. But that freedom may not last: With the U.S. government forging closer
ties to the Laotian government, it is possible that the communist regime there
will someday begin accepting America's deported aliens.

So a deportation order on Monday would put Lo - as it has many others - in an
unsettling legal limbo.

Supporters of the law believe that criminal noncitizens have given up their
privilege of staying in America. But critics argue that extenuating
circumstances may make it wiser to keep such people as Lo in America.

The welfare-dependent, rural Washington County woman is the mother of 13
children. She is the primary caretaker for the nine minors among them. Lo is
raising them alone because her husband, Xao Vang, is serving a 51-month prison
sentence. Vang was convicted of intending to distribute opium.

The federal convictions of Vang and Lo stem from a police search of their St.
Paul public housing apartment in 1992. Authorities found more than 1,000 grams
of opium, $24,000 in cash and several guns - one of them stolen - in the search.
That contraband was tied to Vang. But police also found a small amount of opium
that Lo admits was hers.

Lo claims to know nothing about what appears to have been a substantial
drug-dealing operation. But the U.S. government's district counsel is expected
to argue that Lo knew more about it than she admits and that her crime is
serious enough to merit deportation.

Lo said that she tries not to weigh herself down with the legal arguments - it
makes her physically sick. She is too ashamed to be photographed for the
newspaper, she said. Her focus is on what happens to the children if she is sent
back to Laos.

"I'm very worried," Lo said through a translator. "If I get sent back to Laos,
who's going to take care of the children? Who's going to love them? In the end,
if they are going to send me, I want my kids with me. I don't think the
government will place us all together, and I've heard reports on TV about kids
getting hurt in foster homes."

Returning to Laos is a perplexing and frightening prospect for Lo. She is not
even sure about the logistics of it.

"I don't really know what to expect. I wonder if they'll just drop me off the
plane in the middle of the jungle," Lo said. "Are the people in Laos going to
get ready to kill me? Is the U.S. government going to call and tell them they're
sending me back because I did something wrong?"

After nearly 17 years of living in the United States, Lo said that "the only
ones I know in Laos are my parents. I don't even know if they're still alive.
The communists killed everyone in the village where I lived."

"Ever since I got into this problem my mind has been numb," Lo said. "I think
it's not fair, but who am I to say what's fair? If they're going to send me to
Laos and the communists don't kill me, I'll go on living."

When asked why she didn't think about the potentially dire consequences before
she broke the law, Lo replied:

"At the time, when I used opium, I didn't think whether it was right or wrong. I
just used it for my pain. I just did a one-time thing that's wrong. I don't
think they should be sending me back to Laos. If I were a citizen, this would be
nothing."

Which raises another question: Why didn't she get naturalized? The answer, Lo
said, is that she didn't have any time to study for the English-language and
civics requirements of the naturalization exam.

"There was no point in trying," Lo said. "Some people I knew spoke more English.
They went and they couldn't pass. So I thought I had little chance. It's very
hard. I can't even write my children's birthdays, much less remember them. How
can I remember the U.S. laws and all the presidents?"

Lo, however, may be in a better position than others facing deportation
hearings. Because provisions of outdated immigration law may apply, her legal
counsel is expected to argue that Lo is eligible to have her deportation waived.

Lo's legal representative, University of Minnesota law student Maria Baldini,
said that she will argue that Lo deserves to remain in America for several
reasons.

Among them are Lo's long-standing, generally law-abiding residency in the United
States, the relatively minor nature of her crime and the hardship that her
children will face if their mother is sent back to Laos.

Lo is also making a claim of political asylum.

Baldini will argue that Lo could be persecuted if she is returned to communist
Laos. As a Hmong refugee who supported former Laotian Gen. Vang Pao, Lo's
political views run counter to the ruling regime. Hmong, in particular, have
been singled out for persecution in recent decades by the ethnic Lao-dominated
regime there.

Lee Pao Xiong, executive director of the state Council on Asian-Pacific
Minnesotans, said the issue may not catch fire in the Hmong community until
deportations to Laos actually start happening.

Xiong - who is a native Laotian Hmong - said he has serious misgivings about the
wisdom of removing nonviolent criminals, such as opium users, from America.

"I believe people should pay for their crimes. But they shouldn't be penalized
twice for it," Xiong said. "If you send them back, what good will that do? The
Lao government won't accept them. If all your children are running around
without any father or mother ... they're going to get in trouble and they're
going to be a menace to society, too."

New law
The new immigration law greatly expands the list of deportable offenses,
including nonviolent crimes. It also limits appeals and reduces a federal
immigration judge's discretion to cancel or waive, deportations.

Effect
While the nw immigration law applies to all noncitizens, it will be felt acutely
in the nation's 150,000-member Hmong community. Non-native Hmong have been slow
to become naturalized citizens. And some cultural habits formed in Laos, such as
opium use and teen-age marriages, have caused legal problems for Homng in
America.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              April 6, 1997 Sunday

HONG KONG INVESTIGATES U.S. IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL

SECTION: MAIN; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 89 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG


Hong Kong confirmed Saturday that the top U.S. immigration official in the
colony and his wife are under investigation for alleged corruption and abuse of
authority. James DeBates, acting chief of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the
inquiry, U.S. Consulate spokeswoman Norma Harris said. Harris said she had no
further information on the investigation, which comes less than a year after
DeBates' predecessor was caught smuggling forged passports into Hong Kong.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 12, 1997 Saturday

LITTLE-KNOWN CHANGE IN IMMIGRATION LAW COULD END SISTER-CITY STUDENT EXCHANGES;
FAMILIES WILL NEED MORE MONEY UPFRONT HERE AND OVERSEAS

BYLINE: Linda Owen, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1138 words


Katie Saternus has lived the life of a Mounds View High School junior for
several months now - puzzling over algebra homework, going to school dances,
staying overnight at friends' houses, shopping the malls and developing a taste
for American cheeseburgers.

When she goes back home to Zawiercie, Poland, this summer, the 17-year-old
Malczewska High School student says, "My English will be much better. It will be
easier for me to pass my exams to go to university."

But Saternus' departure also could mark the end of a student exchange program
run by the Sister City Association of Shoreview, which for five years has
brought teen-agers from Zawiercie to spend a semester at Mounds View.

Congress inadvertently struck a blow at some sister-city high school exchanges,
including Shoreview's program and St. Paul's longstanding exchange with
Culiacan, Mexico, when it overhauled the U.S. immigration law last year.

Under a little-known provision of the law, which took effect last November,
students seeking to enter the United States under an F-1 student visa - the kind
typically used in sister city programs and informal family exchanges - must now
pay the full cost of their public schooling upfront.

Lawmakers' intent was to crack down on "parachute kids," children from wealthy
foreign families who send their offspring to America for a free public
education. But sister-city volunteers say the law may well put their low-budget
exchange programs out of business.

Tuition at Mounds View is $2,800 per semester; costs for a full year in other
districts could run as high as $6,000 to $8,000. Polish students can't hope to
pay that much, says Betty Ziskovsky, president of the nonprofit Shoreview sister
city association.

Saternus' airfare alone cost the equivalent of a year's salary for her father,
said Ziskovsky, who is also the teen-ager's host mother. Some Polish parents
have postponed surgery or sold their pianos to send their children to Mounds
View, she said.

Unless Ziskovsky's group can find financial sponsors for next year's students,
she said, "This will kill our program."

The Twin Cities-Culiacan Exchange Program, which brings about a dozen Mexican
students each year to study at city and suburban high schools, faces a similar
dilemma, chairman Phil Hennemann Jr. said. "Essentially, we're closed right
now."

Sister city groups have found little recourse so far. "There are no waivers for
sister cities," said Cindy Holmvik, a Twin Cities immigration inspector for the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

While the problem would appear to affect only a small number of foreign students
here, the ramifications are broader, program organizers say.

Ziskovsky worries that the other half of her sister-city exchange, a new summer
program in Poland, also will suffer. Students from Mounds View, White Bear Lake
and Totino-Grace high schools are scheduled to go to Zawiercie this year.

"If we can't receive kids here and offer the hospitality, what incentive is
there for the Poles to kill themselves to offer a program of their own?" she
said.

And if the Culiacan program has to shut down, "You're losing a real strong
international friendship connection," said Peggy McCarthy, a former chairwoman
and host parent. "These students become family with you. I've been in their
homes and they've been here."

The new tuition requirement does not affect national exchange programs such as
those run by American Field Service and Rotary International, which qualify for
a different type of visa. Nor does it hurt programs that bring students here
only for short-term visits, or exchanges with private schools (provided students
don't transfer to public schools later).

But it does affect some smaller exchange services, including International Home
Stay Services in St. Paul, which relies on F-1 visas. The firm, which placed 38
students in metro area high schools this year, probably will lose half its
business "until people adjust to the fact they're paying for their education,"
owner Sherry Sandey said.

Local residents who want to host the children of overseas friends and relatives
are finding roadblocks, too. The Roseville school district is dealing with three
such cases, said Dave O'Connor, director of instruction.

One family who wants to host a young relative from Norway is "very concerned
about the tuition. It sounds like it may be prohibitive for her to attend," he
said.

Word of the new requirement has just gotten out in the last month or so, said
the INS' Holmvik, and school officials are confused about how to respond. Her
office is hearing from several high school principals each day, she said.

Meanwhile, the Twin Cities-Culiacan program is looking into a possible solution:
federal certification, which would allow students to obtain J-1 visas, the kind
used in major exchange programs. Students then would not have to pay tuition.

The only problem is a required audit that's estimated to cost $1,500 to $2,000,
Hennemann said. "Our total assets for the group are maybe $900," he said.

He is hoping an accountant will offer to reduce the fee or that the United
States Information Agency, which administers the certification process, will
waive the audit.

A USIA program officer in Washington, D.C. said the agency has received 50 to
100 phone calls on the subject and is discussing possible changes in
requirements.

Meanwhile, U.S. Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) has introduced a bill to allow
school districts to waive the tuition fee, but currently schools have no choice,
Holmvik said. The new law supersedes state rules that once allowed some foreign
students to qualify as residents.

But not everyone is upset about the law. "In some cases it solves some
problems," O'Connor said. In the past, he said, it was hard to fit individual
situations to state rules governing whether the district could receive state aid
for a foreign student.

Sometimes, he said, "I would have to make up reasons to declare this person a
resident, even knowing it wasn't true." Now he has a clear guideline, he said.

Even Sandey, whose business will suffer under the law, says Congress had the
right idea. "It's been a long time coming," she said.

With tuition and the fees her program charges, foreign students will be paying
$10,000 to $12,000 to attend an American public school, she said.

But Sandey thinks taxpayers have cause for concern about the issue. "Every
dollar that's put into educating these kids is a dollar that can't go to
educating our kids," she said. And some foreign students come mainly to party,
or without English language skills, so they're unable to "give back" to their
American school, she said.

"I think we might get more serious students when money is involved," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dawn Villella, Pioneer Press
Polish student Katie Saternus, right, gets some help with algebra
homework from her host sister, Betsy Ziskovsky, 18, of Shoreview.
Saternus, 17, is attending Mounds View High School this semester under
an exchange program run by Shoreview's sister city association. But a
little-known change in U.S. immigration law is threatening to kill the
Shoreview program, as well as a St. Paul sister city exchange with
Culiacan, Mexico.

TYPE: EDUCATION//EXCHANGE PROGRAMS

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 23, 1997 Wednesday

GREEN CARDS WENT TO 915,900 IMMIGRANTS IN '96;
PROS AND CONS ARE DEBATED IN WAKE OF 27% ONE-YEAR JUMP

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nearly a million foreigners were granted legal permanent residency in the United
States last year, a 27 percent increase over the number given green cards the
year before.

Some 915,900 people legally immigrated to the United States in 1996, up from
720,461 in 1995, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said Tuesday.

Pro-immigration and anti-immigration groups alike pounced on the statistics to
buttress their arguments.

"We don't need increasing numbers of immigrants," said Dan Stein, head of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors a moratorium on most
immigration. "The whole system is out of control, and what we need is an
immigration timeout ... to allow Congress to rework the system so that it
protects America's long-term interests."

But a pro-immigration coalition pronounced the 1996 increase a temporary surge,
noting that INS projections show rates declining in the next year or two.

"Legal immigration is a highly regulated and tightly controlled system that we
believe serves the national interest," said Jeanne Butterfield, executive
director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

While the 1996 numbers mark a reversal of a four-year decline, legal immigration
rates remain well below the highs posted at the turn of the century, when waves
of immigrants flocked to Ellis Island.

Newcomers account for 4 of every 1,000 residents now - down from 12 per 1,000 in
1910, said Stephen Moore of the Cato Institute, which favors higher rates of
legal immigration than permitted now.

Last year's increase is due in part to a 1986 law that provided amnesty to
nearly 3 million illegal immigrants. As those immigrants became citizens after
five years of legal residency, they in turn have been bringing spouses, children
and parents to the United States.

Other reasons for the increase include delays in processing applications in
1995, which pushed many into 1996, and a one-time gain in family preference
visas in 1996.

Last year's 27 percent increase is well below the 41 percent INS had projected.

"While this is neither a surprise nor particularly big news, given how easy it
is to distort this debate over immigration, we thought it important to put it in
context," said Frank Sharry, head of the National Immigration Forum, which
opposes limits on legal immigration rates.

The debate focuses on whether immigration provides economic, social and cultural
benefits to the United States - or is a drain on society.

"Immigrants are not just mouths to feed. They are productive hands and fertile
minds," said the Cato Institute's Moore.

But Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary's immigration
subcommittee, questioned the nation's immigration policies.

"Over the next five years, America will admit 2 million immigrants who lack a
high school education and are unskilled," he said. "It makes no sense to force
American citizens, many of whom are minorities, to compete with new immigrants
for scarce, unskilled jobs."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 8, 1997 Thursday

IMMIGRANT AID CUTOFF PROTESTED

BYLINE: Lynda McDonnell, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 270 words


More than 200 people, most of them immigrants, gathered at the State Capitol in
St. Paul on Wednesday to protest a planned federal cutoff of food, cash and
medical benefits to about 500,000 legal immigrants.

Hennepin County Commissioner Peter McLaughlin charged that the federal
government "played Pontius Pilate and washed its hands of responsibility to
provide aid to the most vulnerable legal immigrants."

"They leave it on state governments and local governments and local property
taxes to provide these essential services," he said.

The rally was called to support an effort by Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., and
Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., to block federal cuts scheduled to take effect in
July and August. The cuts will eliminate Supplemental Security Income and
medical benefits to 5,400 elderly and disabled immigrants in Minnesota and cut
food stamps to thousands more. Although Minnesota lawmakers have agreed to make
up some of the federal cuts with state funds, an annual gap of more than $30
million remains.

However, a tentative budget agreement between President Clinton and
congressional leaders would restore about $15 billion of the $24 billion in
planned cuts to immigrants.

After the immigration rally, a few dozen protesters gathered on the Capitol
steps and in the rotunda to protest the new welfare-to-work plan that Gov. Arne
Carlson signed into law last week. The small Minnesota Welfare Rights Coalition
has unsuccessfully tried to block welfare changes, asserting that the changes
represent a "'lynch-mob' attitude toward poor women, children and immigrants."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Takushi, Pioneer Press
The Minnesota Welfare Rights coalition held a rally for Sen. Paul
Wellstone's Fairness to Immigrants Act on Wednesday drawing about 50
people opposing the new state welfare laws. Group members called for
restoration of key benefits to legal immigration.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 14, 1997 Wednesday

NEW SOCIAL SECURITY CARDS URGED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 109 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government would have to redesign Social Security cards to make them
as tamper-resistant as U.S. passports or $100 bills, under immigration
legislation being studied by the House. A more secure design would reduce the
number of illegal aliens who find jobs in the United States with the help of
counterfeit documents, the bill's author, Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fla., told a
House panel Tuesday. "It is simply unacceptable that one document that is most
commonly used to prove eligibility for employment is nothing more than a flimsy
paper document that is easily counterfeited," McCollum told the House Judiciary
immigration subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 28, 1997 Wednesday

WOMAN 'WITHOUT A COUNTRY' FACES DEPORTATION

BYLINE: James A. Carlson, Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 655 words

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE


Immigration officials plan to deport a 33-year-old Wisconsin woman as planned
Thursday despite protests of her U.S.-born husband and the friends she has made
here over the past 17 years.

Even her congressman referred to her in a news release Monday as "a respected
citizen" of his southern Wisconsin district.

But David Venturella, acting deputy director with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Chicago, said Erica Strohm violated immigration laws
by staying longer than authorized after coming here as a student.

"I don't see any change of her situation likely" before 11 a.m. Thursday when
she has been ordered to report to the INS in Chicago, with 44 pounds or less of
luggage, to be deported, Venturella said.

In his news release, Republican Rep. Mark Neumann said his office was working
closely with Strohm, her attorney and INS officials "to ascertain the facts
surrounding this case and potential solutions for resolving it," although he
declined to comment on the progress so far.

"This remains an open case and my office is doing everything we can under the
law to help Mrs. Strohm," Neumann said, calling her "a valued member of her
community and respected citizen of the first district of Wisconsin."

"It is uplifting to see the amount of support voiced by her neighbors and
co-workers on her behalf," he added.

It's not known where the INS could send Strohm, a Wisconsin college graduate who
works as sales manager at a financial institution and has built a home at
Burlington with her husband, Mike, 41.

She came to the United States 17 years ago as an exchange student from Kenya but
isn't welcome to return there because she is of Indian descent.

"She's a girl without a country, and she hasn't had one since she went back (to
Kenya) from college in 1984 and was told not to return," said Mary Canik, who
welcomed Strohm into her Beloit home as an exchange student and has stayed in
contact with her over the years.

Canik and her husband, Elmer, a retired businessman, watched as she graduated
from Beloit Memorial High School, earned a business degree from the University
of Wisconsin-Whitewater, went on to her business career and married. She and her
husband have no children, although he has a 14-year-old son from a previous
marriage.

Strohm never obtained her U.S. citizenship or status as a permanent resident,
despite what she says were repeated efforts to do so and continuing contacts
with the INS over the years as she renewed her work permits.

Meanwhile, she followed advice of her attorney and sought political asylum
because she could not return to Kenya. That status was denied, and appeals were
eventually denied, first by the INS and then in federal court.

After marrying four years ago, she filed a petition for a permanent resident's
visa but never heard back from the INS until this month, after asking Neumann's
office to check with the INS on the status of the petition.

Instead of a reply about the visa, the INS sent the deportation order, dated May
5.

Venturella said that the marriage could allow her to return later as a permanent
resident but does not stop the deportation order.

Because of the uncertainty about where to send Strohm, friends fear she could
wind up sitting in a Chicago jail while the INS decides on a destination.

"This is such a flagrant injustice that it's unbelievable," Canik said. "This
girl has tried to do everything right."

Mike Strom, contacted by telephone late Monday afternoon, said his wife was
still working, despite the approaching deportation date.

"I told her she should take off (Wednesday), take one of her personal days to
take a breather," Strohm said. But she said she couldn't because of a hearing
she had to attend as part of her job.

Strohm said he and his wife hope to meet personally with Neumann Wednesday night
when he visits Lake Geneva to speak at a building association meeting.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 30, 1997 Saturday

EIGHT DOUBLE-AGENT SUSPECTS ORDERED DEPORTED TO IRAQ

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Eight Iraqi members of CIA-backed resistance groups, who say they've been
wrongly accused of being spies for Saddam Hussein, were ordered Friday to be
deported to Iraq.

The Iraqis claim deportation would be tantamount to a death sentence because
Hussein would execute them as spies for the United States.

Immigration Judge D.D. Sitgraves ruled that the Iraqis, brought to this country
by the United States after Hussein crushed the opposition last year, cannot stay
here because they lack visas and proper work permits.

Although a legal defeat, the ruling allows the men to proceed to a second phase
of the immigration hearing and apply for political asylum next month.

U.S. prosecutors now must present evidence on why they believe the men are risks
to American security. Much of the evidence at the two-day hearing beginning Nov.
5 will be presented to the judge in secret because it has been classified by the
U.S. government.

Immigration court does not follow the same rules of evidence and due process as
other courts.

The men, who will remain jailed, say they have been accused of being double
agents for Hussein while they worked for CIA-supported opposition groups
operating in the No-Fly Zone after the gulf war. They deny being spies.

The men, many of them professionals, were members of the Iraqi National Congress
or Iraqi National Accord, London-based groups whose members mainly were Shiites
and Kurds bitterly opposed to Hussein's government.

These groups were backed by the CIA as part of a reported $20 million effort by
the U.S. government to overthrow or weaken Hussein after the 1991 Gulf War.
After Hussein's troops swept through northern Iraq, thousands of opposition
members were evacuated to the United States.

The eight men fighting deportation were among a few denied political asylum.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 22, 1997 Wednesday

HOUSE TO CONSIDER IMMIGRANT BILL

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Illegal immigrants would receive a two-week reprieve allowing them to pay a
$1,000 fine and remain in the United States while applying for legal residence
under a measure the House will consider today.

House Republican leaders agreed Tuesday to seek extension of an immigration
statute that expires Thursday. In the face of persistent opposition from some
GOP lawmakers, the leaders had to decide whether to include the provision in a
stopgap spending bill Congress must pass this week to keep government operations
running.

Lawmakers, who have yet to complete the appropriations process for the fiscal
year that began Oct. 1, were to consider today a measure that would fund the
government through Nov. 7.

An earlier stopgap spending bill, expiring Thursday, included an extension of
the immigration provision, which raised $214 million for the nation's
immigration service last year.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 31, 1997 Friday

LOST IN SHUFFLE;
LEGISLATURE QUIETLY, WISELY RESTORES FOOD AID

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 328 words


During Tuesday's special session, while legislators were busy taking infield
practice on stadium proposals, they found one piece of legislation that they
played without an error.

Lawmakers in both houses unanimously voted to restore full "food stamp" benefits
to legal immigrants in Minnesota.

It was a wise and worthy vote. Legislators deserve a word of praise for it amid
all the catcalls and high-pressure lectures of the hour.

Most legal immigrants lost federal food stamp benefits as part of the 1996
welfare overhaul. That promising legislation has freed states to develop
programs that aid welfare recipients and prod them to seek work and
self-sufficiency.

But the welfare bill was regrettably marred by harsh benefit cuts to legal
immigrants that accomplish nothing in the way of reform. Instead, these cuts
merely impose disproportionate hardship on people who are in this country
perfectly legally, and who often need help because of legitimate obstacles to
self-sufficiency.

The immigrant cuts are also unfair to taxpayers in states with relatively high
numbers of legal immigrants - who were admitted to this country, remember, under
federal laws. Minnesota is one such state.

Minnesota lawmakers decently took a first step toward cushioning the blow to
immigrants in last spring's state welfare overhaul. That law provided state
dollars to restore 60 percent of the food stamp benefit to which legal
immigrants were previously entitled.

On Tuesday, the Legislature agreed on 100 percent restoration until next summer,
when the issue will be considered anew.

Minnesota shouldn't have to bear this cost. Congress should reconsider its
counterproductive cuts in nutrition assistance to legal immigrants.

But until federal policy changes, state lawmakers are upholding the best
Minnesota tradition of fairness, and the best helping tradition of immigrant
America, in putting a floor beneath some of its most challenged residents.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 6, 1997 Thursday

SENATE SEEKS TO BLOCK NEW BORDER RULE;
MONITORING TRAFFIC TOO CHAOTIC, FOES SAYS

BYLINE: CATHERINE STRONG, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Lawmakers representing states along the Canadian border expressed outrage
Wednesday at a Senate hearing over a little-noticed immigration provision they
say will soon lead to a border traffic nightmare.

"A flood of calls from constituents came into the offices of all of us serving
in Canadian border states," Sen. Rod Grams, R-Minn., told senators on the
immigration subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

"It is generating waves of controversy at our borders," Sen. Spencer Abraham,
R-Mich., chairman of the subcommittee that has jurisdiction over such
immigration issues, agreed.

Abraham introduced a bill Tuesday that would block the provision, known as
Section 110 of the 1996 immigration law. The section directs the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, starting next October, to collect a record of those
departing and arriving in the United States to identify foreigners who are
overstaying their visas.

The INS says that means they must track everyone. Northern senators say that
will create a traffic nightmare, interfering with high-volume commerce between
the nations and damaging relations.

"We have a collision between principle and practice. In practice, with respect
to our border between the U.S. and Canada, it would lead to chaos," said Sen.
Byron Dorgan, D-N.D.

Abraham's bill would eliminate a requirement for automated entry and exit
systems at both the northern border and the southern border with Mexico.

But including both borders has angered some southwestern senators in states with
higher populations of illegal immigrants.

But Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., said the automated system "would be costly to
implement along the northern border, and it ignores (the) reality" of frequent
border crossings there.

The Clinton administration wants the immigration provision eliminated for land
and sea borders and instead wants a study examining the feasibility of
implementing the automated system.

Michael Jrinyak, deputy assistant commissioner for inspections at the INS, told
the Senate panel that would not delay the implementation of the system at
airports. "People expect to present documents and wait on departure at airports,
but not at the land borders."

Truckers and workers at the border told senators that delays would hurt their
business and safety.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 11, 1997 Thursday

RULING ALLOWS HMONG WAR HERO TO REMAIN IN U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 380 words


A Hmong veteran who helped rescue downed American pilots during the war in
Southeast Asia will be allowed to stay in the United States now that efforts to
deport him over a drug conviction have been dropped.

A Ramsey County judge recently took the unusual step of overturning Kang Ye
Yang's 1995 conviction for selling opium, saying the move was necessary to
prevent "a grave and manifest injustice."

That allowed a federal immigration judge last week to dismiss deportation
proceedings against Yang, 62, who received a congressional citation in May for
his distinguished service during the U.S.-backed "secret war" in Laos, a
spillover from the Vietnam War.

Yang told authorities after his arrest that he suffered still-painful wounds
during the war that led to his opium addiction.

Under last year's changes in immigration laws, deportation of non-citizens is
virtually mandatory after an "aggravated felony" drug conviction, such as
selling opium. Yang's only hope to remain in the United States was to have the
conviction vacated, said his attorney, Phillip Fishman.

Ramsey County District Judge Joanne Smith voided Yang's conviction after
reviewing the circumstances of his drug use, his unblemished record while on
probation, and his contributions to the United States and to the Hmong
community, where he has become a leader.

With the drug conviction erased, U.S. Immigration Judge Robert Vinikoor
dismissed the deportation proceedings.

"No conviction, no deportability," said Terry Louie, a lawyer for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service who handled Yang's deportation case.

For Yang, the war in Laos against the North Vietnamese communists began in 1959
and continued until 1975. He rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel in command
of a guerrilla unit. He suffered a severe chest wound and saw his wife die in
his arms in 1971 during a North Vietnamese commando attack.

In 1972, Yang suffered severe back wounds from a grenade and saw 27 of his men
die in a 6 1/2-hour battle during which his unit rescued two downed American
pilots. It took 10 days for Yang and other wounded soldiers to reach a field
hospital.

Like many Hmong soldiers, Yang used opium to alleviate the chronic pain from his
wounds. Over the years, he became addicted.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 26, 1998 Monday

INS ARSENAL BIGGER THAN FBI'S

SECTION: MAIN; MONDAY BRIEFING; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 80 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The nation now has more immigration officers authorized to carry a gun and make
arrests than it has FBI agents. The number of armed federal agents with arrest
power rose to 74,500 by mid-1996, the Justice Department reported Sunday. That
was about 6 percent higher than in 1993, the last time the Bureau of Justice
Statistics conducted such a survey. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
grew by 31 percent during those three years. The FBI had a 3 percent net gain.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 28, 1998 Wednesday

JUDGE DISMISSES FOOD-STAMP SUIT

BYLINE: Richard Chin, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 129 words


A lawsuit seeking to restore federal food stamp benefits to legal immigrants was
dismissed Tuesday by U.S. District Court Judge Michael Davis.

The lawsuit was filed on behalf of legal immigrants in the Eighth Federal
Circuit. It charged that the new federal welfare law that cut off food stamp
benefits to immigrants on Sept. 1 violated constitutional guarantees.

Davis, however, agreed with the government that Congress can treat legal
immigrants differently from citizens because the government has special powers
in matters involving immigration and naturalization.

The Legislature has decided to use state money to continue food stamp benefits
to legal immigrants. But lawyers for the plaintiffs said there is no guarantee
the state will continue to do so.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 3, 1998 Tuesday

FOOD STAMPS LEAD THE LIST OF MINNESOTA PERKS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Minnesota's large community of Hmong refugees would be eligible for food stamps
under a provision in President Clinton's 1999 budget.

Most legal immigrants were banned from receiving food stamps by the 1996 welfare
law. But the president wants exemptions for families with children,and for
elderly and disabled immigrants.

The United States has admitted thousands of Hmong as refugees since the end of
the Vietnam war, including an estimated 25,000 now living in St. Paul. There are
90,000 Hmong nationwide.

"I think it's a good move on the part of the president in terms of trying to
provide for the needs of low-income persons, especially legal immigrants, who
are being denied benefits in a way that is unfair," said Rep. Bruce Vento,
D-Minn.

Other items of Minnesota interest:

$4.7 million in military construction, including a $3.6 million headquarters for
the Twin Cities Naval Air Reserve.

Nearly $213 million in bonding authority to repair public schools. Some $94
million would be earmarked for Minneapolis and St. Paul, with the rest available
for other school systems in the state. The federal government would pay the
interest on the bonds.

The FBI will add 75 agents to establish computer crime squads in six cities
nationwide, including Minneapolis.

$6.2 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to repair the Mississippi River
Lock and Dam No. 3.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 4, 1998 Wednesday

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS' FOOD BENEFITS SHRINK

BYLINE: Maria Douglas Reeve, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 384 words


More than 50 people listened to 14-year old Youa Thao on Tuesday night as she
recounted how cuts in food benefits to legal immigrants have affected her
family.

She, her parents and four brothers used to get $350 in food stamps. In in the
past few months that figure has dropped to $100, the amount her little brother -
an American citizen - qualifies for in food stamps.

Thao said the $100 and her father's job - which pays $8.50 an hour - is not
enough. Where once they bought fruit and juices, now her mother is able to buy
only 100 pounds of rice, some eggs, noodles and occasionally chicken for the
entire month.

"We don't want to be on welfare, but we need help for food now," she said.

Legal immigrant families from Mexico, the former Soviet Union and Sudan
described the impact of welfare cuts to members of the Senate Health and Family
Security Committee at the meeting at Christ Lutheran Church in St. Paul. The
meeting was organized in part by the Immigration Task Force to highlight the
problems.

Last year, as part of changing welfare, the federal government cut food stamps
to legal immigrants and placed a three-month limit on the time an adult without
children would receive food stamps.

More than 10,000 immigrants in Minnesota were affected.

Advocates and families suggest the state permanently replace food stamps lost
when the federal government stopped providing the benefit and develop a state
food policy. They also recommend pressuring the federal government to replace
food stamps for legal immigrants and adults without children.

The state took up where the federal government left off by replacing some money
for legal immigrant families with an appropriation, but it is set to end in
June. The state also started a program called Minnesota Grown, which provides
vouchers for elderly and disabled immigrants to buy food grown in Minnesota.
However, those vouchers can't buy the foods many immigrants want to eat.

Several bills are pending in the Legislature to replace the food benefit legal
immigrants lost last year. Advocates estimate it will cost $7 million to $8
million.

Pete Rode of the Urban Coalition and co-chairman of the Immigration Task Force,
said state money in a welfare reserve fund could pay for the benefits.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 25, 1998 Wednesday

DEAL GIVES MORE LEGAL IMMIGRANTS FOOD STAMPS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congressional negotiators struck a bargain Tuesday to restore food stamps to
thousands of legal immigrants who were cut off by the 1996 welfare law. But the
money would cover fewer people than President Clinton had hoped.

The House-Senate deal would spend $642 million over five years to restore
benefits to the immigrants. Clinton had sought at least $2 billion to cover up
to 730,000 immigrants; congressional aides could not say how many would be
covered under the lower figure.

The agreement, reached in negotiations on an agriculture research bill, would
use some of the $1.8 billion in savings from administering the food stamp
program to guarantee subsidies for agents who write crop insurance and to
increase spending on agricultural research instead of devoting it all to food
stamps.

Nonetheless, Agriculture Department officials said the deal was "in the range"
of what the administration could support, depending on which groups of legal
immigrants - refugees, the elderly and disabled, families with children - are
given priority for food stamps.

"We need to see the details," said Greg Frazier, chief of staff to Agriculture
Secretary Dan Glickman.

Advocates for the immigrants said they would continue pressing Congress for more
money.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 9, 1998 Saturday

GOVERNOR SEEKS FOOD STAMPS FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: MADISON


The governor Friday asked state lawmakers to approve providing food stamps to
7,200 legal immigrants, after the Republican-controlled Senate rejected the
proposal as part of a budget bill.

"The governor always wanted food stamps for the Hmong, and it was his
understanding it would be taken care of in the budget," said John Matthews, Gov.
Tommy Thompson's chief of staff.

Senate Majority Leader Mike Ellis, a Neenah Republican, predicted the
Legislature would honor the governor's request. The Senate and Assembly have
adjourned until next Wednesday.

Non-citizen refugee families lost their food stamp benefits because of a 1996
federal welfare reform law. The law, which took effect last August, was an
attempt to limit federal assistance to illegal aliens. Legal immigrants, such as
Hmong refugees, were included in the restrictions.

More than a dozen states have opted to use state money to buy food stamps to
replace the lost federal benefits. Wisconsin's proposal to restore the food
stamp benefits has been estimated to cost $5 million.

Early Friday, the state Senate sent a budget bill to the governor on a 20-13
vote, after rejecting Democratic budget amendments that would use federal money
to provide food stamps for legal immigrants. Many of those immigrants are from
Hmong families, Southeast Asians who fought with Americans during the Vietnam
War.

Thompson's move was applauded Friday.

"The Hmong lost their homes and thousands of loved ones saving Americans and
fighting as our allies," said Sen. Dave Zien, R-Eau Claire. "Food stamps are the
least we owe these former soldiers."

In earlier Senate debate, Democrats criticized Republicans for opposition to the
food stamps.

"Let these poor people eat," said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Chvala,
D-Madison.

Sen. Tim Weeden, R-Beloit, said any blame for not feeding the poor immigrants
belongs with President Clinton and Congress.

The budget bill passed Friday, among other things, would reduce state income
taxes an average $23 for people making $25,000 to $30,000 a year, or $39 when
combined with 1997 tax cuts, the Legislative Fiscal Bureau says.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 10, 1998 Sunday

INS RESPONDS TO LATINO ACTIVISTS' DEMANDS;
REGIONAL HEAD AGREES TO MODEST MEASURES

BYLINE: Maja Beckstrom, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 898 words


In response to demands from Latino activists, the regional head of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service agreed Saturday to recruit bilingual
staff and push for expanded services at a soon-to-open satellite office in St.
Paul.

It was a small victory for more than 350 people who turned out in First Lutheran
Church on St. Paul's East Side to hear the INS district director, Curtis Aljets,
respond to a list of demands from a coalition of churches. The INS district
consists of Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota.

Most requests involved providing bilingual services, Spanish translation of
documents and greater access to family members held in detention. The meeting
was part of a larger campaign to prevent immigrant families from being torn
apart by INS policies and enforcement of laws against illegal residents.

"We're saying OK, we might not be able to change the law now, but we can at
least have the INS treat people with more dignity and more respect," said Carl
Valdez, a deacon at Sacred Heart Church in St. Paul.

"The people who are picked up, they don't get the information they need; they
can't reach their families; they're asked to sign voluntary exit orders and half
the time they don't know what they're signing," Valdez charged. The campaign is
spearheaded by eight mostly Latino churches that are members of the St. Paul
Ecumenical Alliance of Churches and Interfaith Action of Minneapolis. In the
end, Aljets agreed to several requests and promised to work toward fulfilling
others. But he said budget constraints precluded him from meeting many of the
demands.

"Many of these things you recommended I support," Aljets told the group. "But
some of the things I need more time then you have given me."

Organizers of the meeting felt it was a good first step.

"It's a beginning," Esilda Narvaez, co-chair of Interfaith Action. "We thought
we would get more yeses, but for me it was very positive that he wanted to work
with us."

The meeting was conducted with a fair amount of ritual and confrontation. Each
demand was written in Spanish on a colored poster. As it was read, a child
holding the poster stepped forward. Aljets was given two minutes to respond.
Then the representative slapped a big sticker saying "No" or "Si" onto the
poster.

Aljets said the federal agency, an arm of the U.S. Department of Justice, did
not have money to hire a Spanish-speaking operator to answer simple questions
over the phone. He said he could not install a public phone to receive incoming
calls in detention cells because people picked up by the INS are often held in
county or state jails. He noted, however, that people in detention can call out.

Aljets said he would not extend INS hours in the Bloomington headquarters past 3
p.m. to accommodate working people's schedules. He also would not distribute INS
forms in public areas, such as libraries and social-service agencies.

But he did promise to provide INS forms to Latino activists if they wanted to
set up their own distribution sites. Forms currently are available in the
Bloomington office or can be ordered by phone. Aljets said that an INS service
center to be opened later this summer in St. Paul will offer only limited
services - such as fingerprinting for naturalization applications.

"We understand the logic of what you're asking for. We'll push for expanded
services," he said. Aljets said the Bloomington district headquarters already
provides Spanish translations of documents and a Spanish translator for people
calling for information about relatives in detention. He also agreed to meet
regularly with the coalition and agreed to recruit Spanish-speaking agents.

"We would welcome your assistance in locating bilingual applicants who wish to
be employed by the INS," he said.

The sanctuary was packed with a mostly Latino audience. Another 100 or so mostly
white and African-American supporters listened to simultaneous English
translation through headphones from seats in the balcony.

SPEAC and Interfaith Action have emerged in recent years as powerful forces.
Working through 50 member churches, the two organizations train community
organizers to tackle community problems.

Last month, they successfully persuaded United Hospital to hire a full-time
Spanish interpreter and to offer more bilingual services. They have also given
out small business loans and convinced Cub Foods in the St. Paul's Midway
neighborhood to offer managerial positions to area residents.

The INS campaign began when Latino leaders met eight months ago at a Minneapolis
restaurant. They swapped stories about their INS problems and realized they had
a galvanizing issue. Several leaders went to Milwaukee, where a similar
coalition of church groups successfully negotiated changes in INS policy.

On March 16, several hundred people held a rally in St. Stephen Catholic Church
in Minneapolis. Saturday was their first meeting since then.

Arrest numbers

Regional arrests of people suspected of being in America illegally have risen
dramatically. Figures are for federal fiscal years, beginning Oct. 1, in the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service district made up by Minnesota, North
Dakota and South Dakota.

1998- 876 (through March)

1997 - 1,626

1996 - 1,198

1995 - 1,202

1994 - 1,142

1993 - 1,013

1992 - 560

1991 - 514

1990 - 405

Source: INS

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 Photos: Pioneer Press Photos by Dawn Villella
1) Guillermo Rodriguez listens to testimony about how immigration
policy is tearing apart immigrant families Saturday at First Lutheran
Curch in St. Paul. The mostly Latino audience presented nine demands
to regional INS director Curtis Aljets.
2) One of the demands is stamped with a "no" at the meeting
Saturday. Aljets agreed to several requests and promised to work
toward fulfilling others.
3) Curtis Aljets, regional director of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, speaks at a public meeting Saturday to
immigrant and Spanish-speaking families at First Lutheran Church in
St. Paul. Latino activists presented Aljets with nine demands they
believe are needed to improve services for immigrant families.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 8, 1998 Monday

INJUSTICE OF IMMIGRATION LAW: ONE STRIKE, AND YOU'RE OUT;
DEPORTATION DEALT TO LEGAL ALIENS WHO'VE PAID FOR THEIR CRIMES

BYLINE: Ruben Rosario, Staff Columnist

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1269 words


If you believe America is a land of fair play as well as opportunity, consider
the case of Pablo.

Pablo - not his real name - was a factory worker and a legal, non-citizen
resident with an American-born wife, two children born in the United States and
a home in a working-class neighborhood of St. Paul. He was, by most accounts, as
American as cherry pie. He paid his taxes, barbecued in the back yard, watched
ballgames on TV and went bowling on occasion. He was living in the United States
for 15 years. The only thing he couldn't do as a non-U.S. citizen was vote.

But in 1993, Pablo made a big mistake. He agreed, reluctantly, to hold a stash
of cocaine for an acquaintance. He was unaware the man was jammed up on a drug
rap and was now cooperating with authorities. Pablo, who had no criminal record,
was busted in a police sting, convicted and sentenced to 84 months in prison.

Pablo, who felt he had been set up, had his conviction overturned on appeal. A
new trial was granted. But Pablo, already a year behind bars, wanted to come
home. In 1995, he agreed to plead guilty to a felony drug charge in exchange for
time served and 20 years' probation.

Pablo did what society demands of anyone who commits a crime. He did his time,
after which he got a steady job, stayed out of trouble and helped his wife make
ends meet and raise and educate the couple's two children and a stepson.

But in America today, that is not enough for people like Pablo.

Five months ago, Pablo was deported and permanently barred from entering the
United States. Official word of his deportation came last summer - as it
happened, two weeks after his youngest son and father-in-law died tragically in
a boating accident.

Pablo never got a chance to state his case to an immigration judge. That is the
law of the land now. In 1996 - a year after Pablo got out of prison - Congress
passed and President Clinton signed into law the Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act. The law, which the American Immigration Lawyers
Association has described as "the most restrictive piece of anti-immigration
legislation since the early 1920s," broadened the definition of deportable
offenses. It also made many of them retroactive in application.

The new law allows permanent non-citizens or legal residents who fall into the
"aggravated felon" category of deportable crimes as defined by the law to be
deported for crimes dating back 10 years or more. Pablo fits that category. Some
of the deportable crimes now include gross misdemeanors and relatively minor
drug offenses. Immigration judges, under the new law, can no longer waive
deportation of such cases, even if compelling circumstances warrant it.

For people like Pablo, it no longer matters whether you served your time or have
children born and raised here. One strike, even a 5-year-old one at that, and
you're outta here. I have no sympathy for career criminals or repeat violent
offenders, whether they are born here or elsewhere. But there is something
inherently un-American about punishing someone again for a past crime without a
hearing. In a country that was largely built and developed by the sweat and
blood of immigrants, there has got to be a way of narrowing the law's broad
sweep.

"Before 1996, there was something called a 212-C waiver for permanent residents
convicted of crimes," explained Karen Ellingson, a veteran immigration lawyer
and executive director of the Immigration Law Center of Minnesota. "It pretty
much didn't matter what the crime was. You were afforded due process. You
presented your case before an (immigration) judge who would rule one way or the
other.

"But 1996 wiped that out. It's not like we won all our cases. In fact, many were
hard cases, and we lost some. But at least you got a chance to present your
case.

"This law's just incredible. Many people thought it would affect only illegal
aliens who commit felonies or violent crimes. The shock is what it is doing to
permanent residents. ..."

Even applying for citizenship can get you booted. Permanent residents with old
convictions now fear exposure, according to Ellingson and other lawyers.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service does not have the personnel,
resources or inclination to check court records for past convictions. But it is
sworn to enforce the law if it discovers one, regardless of whether it comes as
a tip, INS raid or an honest response on a citizenship application.

Since federal appeals are severely limited, hundreds of legal residents are
flooding state courts in Minnesota and around the country with requests to have
their convictions vacated - a court order that judges are generally reluctant to
grant.

"It's really hard to justify those types of requests absent some compelling
circumstance," said Ramsey County District Judge Salvador Rosas. "I have two or
three such cases before me now. My main concern about the law is that the
changes are applied retroactively. In my opinion, it's just unfair and
constitutionally suspect. There's no way that a person who consulted with a
lawyer, say, 10 years ago and pled guilty could have anticipated the collateral
consequences of the decision."

Pablo also requested to have his conviction vacated.

It was denied.

Hardship, separation from loved ones and a line of character witnesses ranging
from his employer to his probation officer weren't enough to keep him here.

Pablo's youngest son drowned while on an outing. The boy's grandfather also
drowned while trying to rescue the boy. Pablo asked for a four-month stay of his
deportation so he could help his wife and the couple's 8-year old son deal with
the loss. It was granted. He could have run and hid somewhere in this country.
He did not. He spent one final Christmas at home. Two days after the Super Bowl,
Pablo boarded a plane for South America.

The boy, who is described as emotionally fragile and undergoing therapy, has
been told only that his father is on an extended business trip. That is the only
reason I agreed to protect his family's identity.

Jane spoke to her husband weekly, but the long-distance phone bills are mounting
and calls have been trimmed back to about once or twice a month. She works full
time and has thought about taking a part-time second job. But she will not give
up the time she needs to care for her and Pablo's son and a teen-age son from a
previous marriage. She doesn't have the time to lobby for changes.

But she showed up at a rally at the state Capitol a few months ago and joined
scores of other similarly fractured families calling for revision of the law.
For now, the expensive phone calls will have to hold up what is left of the
marriage.

"I agree that this law was intended to keep out the drug traffickers, people who
make crime a career," she said. "But I don't believe it was intended for someone
who made a mistake, paid for that mistake and turned their life around."

To learn more

To learn more about both sides of the immigration issue and also the 1996
changes in federal immigration law, visit the following Web sites:

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service - www.ins.usdoj.gov/

American Immigration Lawyers Association - www.aila.org

Federation For American Immigration Reform - www.fairus.org

Center For Immigration Studies - www.us.net/cis/

National Immigration Forum - www.immigrationforum.org/

The Immigration Law Center of Minnesota is at 291-0110 in St. Paul.

Ruben Rosario's public safety column appears Mondays. He can be reached at
228-5454 or by e-mail: rrosario@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related stories: 1) EVICTED FROM AMERICA: RECENT TOUGHENING OF
FEDERAL IMMIGRATION LAWS MEANS DEPORTATION OR THE THREAT OF DEPORTATION FOR MORE
MINNESOTANS. FOR GERARDO CASTRO, IN THE COUNTRY ILLEGALLY FOR EIGHT YEARS, IT
COULD MEAN BEING FORCED TO LEAVE THE WIFE AND CHILDREN HE HELPS SUPPORT. 2)
AFTER 46 YEARS, MAN LEARNS HE'S NOT A CITIZEN

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 8, 1998 Monday

EVICTED FROM AMERICA;
RECENT TOUGHENING OF FEDERAL IMMIGRATION LAWS MEANS DEPORTATION OR THE THREAT OF
DEPORTATION FOR MORE MINNESOTANS. FOR GERARDO CASTRO, IN THE COUNTRY ILLEGALLY
FOR EIGHT YEARS, IT COULD MEAN BEING FORCED TO LEAVE THE WIFE AND CHILDREN HE
HELPS SUPPORT.

BYLINE: Molly Guthrey, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1212 words


Gerardo and Justina Castro are a case of love against the law.

Gerardo Castro, 25, sits in prison in southwestern Minnesota, awaiting the
outcome of an appeal on long-standing deportation orders imposed before he met
his wife. Justina Castro, 22, struggles to raise their children - ages 5 months,
16 months and 5 years - as she holds down a full-time job.

Their story, says Curtis Aljets, regional head of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, has a familiar ring. Since federal lawmakers toughened
immigration laws, it has become more difficult for someone like Gerardo Castro -
who has been in the country illegally for a long time - to avoid detection and
stay. With the tougher laws, the list of deportable offenses has been expanded
and it limits appeals and reduces a federal immigration judge's discretion to
cancel, or waive, deportations.

The stronger regulations are reflected locally in the number of people in
Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota who have been deported. In the 1994
fiscal year, 195 people were deported. The numbers shot up to 660 in 1995, 772
in 1996 and 1,240 in 1997.

"A lot of people feel that the latest laws that have come down seem to be
over-stringent, but a lot of them are merely a reaction ... to what (Congress)
thought were abuses of the system before, and now they're trying to correct it
by enforcing rather strict rules," Aljets said.

Those abuses included quickie marriages of illegal aliens to U.S. citizens as
well as illegal aliens remaining in the United States for years. Proponents of
the tougher laws say it is needed to reverse the flow of illegal immigrants, who
they say compete with Americans for jobs, drain public services and cost the
government millions of dollars to pursue.

Castro's deportation case is pending before the Board of Immigration Appeals in
Virginia. Aljets, as well as the defendant's attorneys, also said if Castro is
returned to Mexico, he can seek a waiver to get back into the United States.
There is no guarantee, however, that he would be granted the waiver, which is
more difficult to receive now because of the stricter federal laws.

The Castros' story is just one example of a growing and persistent problem for
immigrants in the Twin Cities, said Greg Nammacher, a bilingual organizer with
the St. Paul Ecumenical Alliance of Congregations.

The coalition of St. Paul churches - with the help of Interfaith Action of
Minneapolis, a similar group of churches - is spearheading an effort to work
with the INS to address some proposed changes.

"It's a crazy example of what's happening," Nammacher said of the family's
plight. "This is a woman who has built her life, built her future on an
assumption and then, all of sudden - with the help of that federal law that
makes any small criminal act in the past all of a sudden punishable by permanent
deportation - it just throws all that up to the wind."

The coalition has recommended a number of changes at the INS, including hiring
more bilingual staff members, providing a more accessible telephone line,
keeping longer office hours and offering INS forms in Spanish.

Justina Castro, meanwhile, wishes she could just have a heart-to-heart talk with
the people making the decisions about her family's future.

"I'm just the same person like them, trying to work and earn a living," she said
recently, sobbing as she sat in the couple's small apartment on St. Paul's West
Side. "They have families that they take care of, too. But I can't do it without
my husband. If they could just understand what I'm going through and how hard I
am trying to stay on my feet. If only they could just see that and listen to me.
... Why won't they let him come home?"

Justina Grant and Gerardo Castro met at a Mexican dance in December 1993.

"We started dating right away," she said. "We both just fell in love."

Then the mother of a little girl, Grant had never finished high school. Castro
changed that, she said. He helped her see that, as a U.S. citizen, great
opportunities for education and career choices lay at her feet. It would be
wasteful not to take advantage of those opportunities, he told her. After they
began a relationship, she earned her high school general equivalency degree,
studied nursing at St. Paul Technical College and is currently employed as a
nursing assistant.

She wants to study to become a registered nurse, but those plans are on hold
now.

As for Castro, he did not believe he had as many choices in life. The son of
poor Mexican farmers, he came to the United States illegally in 1991 to live
with family in Minnesota and to earn money to send to his relatives back home.
When authorities caught him working illegally for Twin City Bagel in 1993, he
was detained briefly and told to return for a court date.

His lawyers, Leslie Karam and Renee Mueller Steinle, argue that the government
failed to provide Castro with proper notice of the court hearing because the
mailings were in English, not Spanish. The government argues that Gerardo was
informed in Spanish and knew what his responsibilities were when he was
initially detained.

Meanwhile, after they met, Grant helped her boyfriend learn English. After they
moved in together, she discovered one of his old court mailings. When she asked
about it, he said he did not understand the letter. At that point, though they
knew they loved each other, Castro resisted marriage: "He didn't want me to
think he was marrying me so I could help him," she said.

But on Dec. 16, 1995, the couple did get married in the Ramsey County
Courthouse. They considered meeting with INS officials to get his paperwork
straightened out, but Justina resisted.

"I didn't want my husband taken away from me," she said.

It was in 1997, just before the birth of their son, that the couple started the
process of hiring a lawyer and approaching the INS. At a meeting, authorities
determined that the couple's marriage was bona fide. However, Gerardo was taken
into custody because of his previous deportation warrant. After a Twin Cities
immigration judge declined to reopen the case, it moved on to the review board
in Virginia.

Because of his family responsibilities, Gerardo asked to be released from jail
pending the appeal, but authorities denied his request. Recently, he was moved
from a metro area jail to a facility in Appleton, Minn. Because of the
three-hour distance and Justina's job and child-care responsibilities, his
family can no longer visit him.

Meanwhile, Justina had their second child, a daughter, in December. The couple
asked to have Gerardo released for the birth, but authorities also denied that
request.

Since Justina began her fight to free her husband, her life has been hard. Her
husband had cared for the children full time while she worked; finding
replacement care has been difficult. To help her, her father recently moved to
St. Paul from South Dakota. But still, she has had to turn down overtime in
order to be home. It's harder than ever to keep up with the family's bills.

"I have to try to support our three children without his help," she recently
told a church gathering. "I feel like I am a single mother, even though my
husband desperately wants to be with his family."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related stories: 1) INJUSTICE OF IMMIGRATION LAW: ONE STRIKE, AND
YOU'RE OUT: DEPORTATION DEALT TO LEGAL ALIENS WHO'VE PAID FOR THEIR CRIMES. 2)
AFTER 46 YEARS, MAN LEARNS HE'S NOT A CITIZEN

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: Richard Marshall, Pioneer Press
1) "Being all alone with the kids ... it's so hard without him,"
says Justina Castro, whose husband, Gerardo, is jailed while waiting
the outcome of deportation proceedings. The couple, who have three
children, married in St. Paul after meeting in 1993; Gerardo illegally
immigrated to the United States in 1991 and was caught in 1993.
Stiffened immigration laws and enforcement are translating into more
deportations throughout the country.
2) Justina and Gerardo Castro are shown in a family photograph with
daughter Shari, now 5, and son Alejandro, now 16 months. Not shown is
daughter Maribel, 5 months.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 26, 1998 Friday

TIGHTENED BORDER RULE SCRAPPED IN THE SENATE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: MONTPELIER, VT.


A proposed federal rule that would have made crossing the U.S.-Canadian border
much tougher has been scrapped by a Senate committee, Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.,
said Thursday.

Leahy said the Senate Appropriations Committee approved a spending bill that
deleted new immigration rules that critics feared would create huge bottlenecks
at the border.

At issue were provisions contained in the 1996 immigration reform law that were
going to force the Immigration and Naturalization Service to check everyone
entering and leaving the United States starting in October.

They also would have required Canadians to carry more documentation when
crossing the border.

Leahy praised Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H., chairman of the Senate Appropriations
subcommittee that oversees the Commerce, Justice and State departments, for
moving to delete the rules.

The move came just weeks after Gov. Howard Dean returned to Vermont from a
conference with eastern Canadian provincial premiers and northeastern U.S.
governors.

"What it would mean for Vermont is simply a disaster," Dean said on his return
from the conference. He noted trade with and tourism from Canada play a huge
role in northern states' economies.

"It has to be fixed," he said. "It will totally strangle the trade between
Canada and the United States."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 6, 1998 Tuesday

INS STRUGGLES WITH NEW RULES

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The immigration service this week must start locking up thousands more legal
permanent residents and other noncitizens who are deportable because they have
criminal records, a final piece of the 1996 immigration law. Already struggling
with a record demand for jail beds, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
contends it lacks the resources needed to fulfill the new detention rules. The
INS has lobbied Congress unsuccessfully to extend a two-year grace period, which
expires Thursday night, that allowed the agency to release criminal aliens
believed to pose no danger.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associated Press
Carrie Ganges, right, the mother of convicted murderer Arthur Bomar,
lashes out at members of the media Monday outside the Delaware County
Courthouse in Media, Pa. Ganges said her son did not kill college
athlete Aimee Willard and accused the jury of racism.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 15, 1998 Thursday

IMMIGRANT-RIGHTS GROUP CRITICIZES POLICE;
BUT AGENCIES SAY THEY AREN'T AIDING INS ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: Ben Chanco and Robert F. Moore, Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 807 words


A Minnesota group promoting the rights of immigrants painted an unpleasant
picture Wednesday about the treatment of people from foreign countries.

But instead of taking aim at the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, it
took shots at local and national police agencies that act as enforcement arms of
the INS and at the "severe provisions" of the 1996 federal immigration law that
calls for mandatory detention of those with even minor criminal convictions.

"They're not the bad guys this time," Ben Casper said of the INS.

Casper, an immigration attorney with the nonprofit Centro Legal of St. Paul, was
one of the representatives of the Immigration Task Force that held a news
conference Wednesday on the issues of police involvement in immigration arrests
and on mandatory immigration detention. The task force is a coalition of
community organizations that includes the Urban Coalition, Centro Legal and the
Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota, all in St. Paul.

Casper said immigrants are being subjected to demands for immigration documents,
arbitrary stops and even arrest by local officers in situations in which no
criminal activity is suspected. Police also have participated directly in local
INS raids, he added.

"Local police have no responsibility for the enforcement of federal immigration
laws," Casper said.

In a separate interview, St. Paul Police Chief William Finney said his
department has had a policy in effect since 1986 not to ask people to present
immigration papers during routine stops or at any other point.

"Local police departments are not in the business of checking people for their
papers," Finney said. "We're in the business of investigating crimes, not
verifying citizenship. That is not our responsibility."

The St. Paul police policy states that "officers shall not independently
undertake to approach, interview, interrogate, detain, or arrest any suspected
illegal alien or refugee when potential violation of the federal immigration law
is the principal issue. Neither shall any officer independently seek to
ascertain a suspected illegal alien's status."

The policy does give police officers the option to notify the INS to interview
the suspect if the officer has a reasonable belief the person may be an illegal
alien.

The situation is handled in a similar way in Minneapolis.

"It serves us no purpose to ask for immigration papers," said Minneapolis Police
Lt. Greg Hirsch. "Our officers don't routinely ask for the green card."

Ramsey County Sheriff Bob Fletcher said his deputies may ask suspects about
their immigration status, but only in connection with felony-level offenses.

"If there is evidence of serious criminal activity and there's a reason to ask
about someone's immigration status, then we will," Fletcher said. "There's no
restriction on what questions a deputy can ask, but we wouldn't ask about
someone's citizenship during a traffic stop."

Fletcher said deputies typically ask questions about a suspect's citizenship if
deemed necessary in the course of organized, drug-related or gang-related
criminal investigations. Deputies then would call the INS to assist in verifying
the suspect's status, he said.

Curtis Aljets, INS director of the district that includes Minnesota and the
Dakotas, said his office does not expect or ask police to stop people for
immigration reasons.

"We caution police not to stop people just because they look like an alien,"
Aljets said. "They need to have probable cause. But if police toss an illegal
alien in jail for DWI, and we find out, then we take action."

The Immigration Task Force pointed out during the news conference Wednesday in
the Urban Coalition office that as of Friday, immigrants with relatively minor
criminal convictions can be detained indefinitely by the INS without any hope of
posting a bond to ensure their release while they await a trial on the merits of
their immigration cases.

"The new mandatory detention policy means that more families will be torn
apart," said Pete Rode, co-chairman of the task force.

"Indefinite lifetime detention for two misdemeanor convictions, such as
shoplifting, violates the basic principles of fairness on which our nation was
founded," added Maria Baldini-Potermin, an immigration attorney with the
Immigration Law Center.

Aljets confirmed mandatory detention is being enforced.

"It's a law I have to enforce," he said. "I'm forbidden to lobby one way or the
other on this."

He said the new law makes even old crimes accountable.

"But we're not going to go and screen records 10 or 15 years ago," Aljets said.
"We have more than we can handle with those breaking the law now."

Ben Chanco can be reached at rchanco@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5256. Robert
F. Moore can be reached at rmoore@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5591.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 22, 1998 Thursday

NAZI GUARD'S EXPULSION UPHELD

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 79 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals has upheld an order to deport a
77-year-old retired foundry supervisor for covering up his past as a guard at
Nazi concentration camps during World War II, the Justice Department said
Wednesday. Originally entered in 1997, the order directed that Ferdinand Hammer,
of Sterling Heights, Mich., be deported to Croatia, his native land. Hammer has
the option of appealing the board's ruling to the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of
Appeals.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 9, 1999 Tuesday

IMMIGRANT'S QUEST MIRED IN INS RED TAPE - AND JAIL;
BAD ADVICE MAY HAVE LED TO DEPORT ORDER

BYLINE: Blake Morrison, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1295 words


Since mid-December, Patrick Chung Vu has been shuttled from jail to jail, housed
alongside thugs and drug dealers over what some say was no more than a harmless
misunderstanding.

His crime? Failing to show up for an immigration hearing to determine whether he
would be granted political asylum - a proceeding he thought had been
rescheduled.

As a result, the 26-year-old St. Paul man with no criminal record has spent the
past 56 days in six jails in three different states.

And even after an immigration judge agreed to reopen his case Wednesday, delays
in transferring paperwork continued to keep him in a Jamestown, N.D., jail late
Monday night.

Chung Vu's circumstance, lawyers, advocates and others agree, is typical of the
problems faced by thousands of immigrants wending their way through the nation's
immigration system, a complex bureaucracy often befuddling even to those who run
it.

Too often, they say, immigration officials become bound by their own red tape,
unwilling to admit the system's shortcomings and forcing immigrants such as
Chung Vu to risk deportation and spend weeks in jail over clerical errors and
slipshod advice.

"Once they've made a mistake, trying to get it undone is next to impossible,"
said Steven Thal, a Minneapolis attorney and chairman for the Minnesota/Dakota
chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Even one Immigration and Naturalization Service officer, who said he was
concerned he might lose his job for speaking out, questions how Chung Vu's case
has been handled.

"He was doing what he was told, it sounds like," said Sam Allen, the Anaheim,
Calif., INS officer who had handled Chung Vu's case. "It sounds like he was just
following the rules.

"We're told to treat people like you would want one of your family members to be
treated," Allen says. "But I can't say I'd want to be treated like this."

Still, as late as last week, some INS officials considered Chung Vu's case a
textbook violation of immigration law, the sort used to justify the deportation
of some 150,000 immigrants annually.

The INS contends that Chung Vu brought on his problems himself last May, when he
failed to appear at a court hearing in California he knew had been scheduled. A
deportation order was issued in absentia, and because Chung Vu didn't challenge
the order within 180 days, the INS argued he must be deported to France, where
he was born. As INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said last week, "No further
relief is available."

But a Pioneer Press review of court documents suggests that the nation's
labyrinthine immigration system may simply have failed Chung Vu, preventing him
from correcting a misunderstanding before it was too late.

Chung Vu stated in court documents that he was told a simple change-of-address
form would result in his hearing being rescheduled for Minnesota, where he had
moved in April and was married in June. Moreover, despite two subsequent visits
to INS headquarters in Bloomington, INS officials said nothing about the May 11
deportation ruling, he testified.

Not until a third visit, on Dec. 14, did Chung Vu learn of the order, he said.
But by then, his 180-day window to challenge the ruling had closed.

Chung Vu could not be reached for comment but spoke to the Pioneer Press through
his wife and his attorney.

Chung Vu's parents, who are Hmong refugees from Laos, relocated to France during
the Vietnam War. Seeking political asylum, they brought Chung Vu to the United
States when he was a teen-ager.

But when he turned 21, Chung Vu's immigration status changed. No longer the
dependent of asylum-seeking parents, he had to seek asylum himself - no easy
task considering he was not persecuted in his native France.

In March, Chung Vu went to the asylum office in San Francisco and was told his
case had to be transferred. He had moved from his parents' home in Fresno to his
aunt's residence in Fountain Valley, and that meant the INS office in San
Francisco no longer had jurisdiction over his case. He would have to see an
asylum officer in Anaheim, he was told.

A month later, on April 10, he met with Allen, who said he would recommend Chung
Vu's asylum request be denied. But as the two spoke, Allen recalled, Chung Vu
mentioned plans to move to Minnesota and marry Maijue Xiong, a U.S. citizen.
Allen said he suggested Chung Vu seek residency through Maijue and reminded him
to file a change-of-address form. After all, the move to Minnesota would again
affect jurisdiction.

But Allen said last week that he didn't realize a change of address would not be
enough to get the May 11 asylum hearing rescheduled for Minnesota. "If I don't
know, how could he know?" Allen said.

Some two weeks before his scheduled hearing, Chung Vu told the court, he mailed
the change-of-address form and waited for a new hearing date. Instead, the next
time INS officials mentioned the court hearing - seven months after it had taken
place - Chung Vu was escorted to jail.

"I'm not going to candy-coat it. I'm not going to try to hide it. Is it possible
he misunderstood? Sure. Is it possible he got confused over jurisdictional
issues? Yeah," said Allen.

Even Allen's boss, Russell Looney, said he thought a change-of-address notice
"would have moved the case over to Minnesota" - an erroneous assumption,
according to immigration court spokesman Rick Kenney.

"A change of address does not give you a change of venue," Kenney said. "But I
can't account for what they would tell him at an INS asylum office."

What immigration court officials should have been able to account for - but
according to court documents could not - was whether they notified Chung Vu that
an order of deportation had been issued at the May 11 hearing. In her decision
to reopen the case, Immigration Judge Margaret Reichenberg concluded "there is
no record of the order ever being sent to him."

In addition, Chung Vu's lawyer, Richard Breitman, said both the immigration
court and the INS knew where to find Chung Vu. In fact, Chung Vu twice contacted
them seeking information about the status of his California case.

"People should be outraged," Breitman said. "What does it mean to look at a kid
whose wife is here, whose family is here, who relied on the advice he was given,
to his detriment?"

As a result of Reichenberg's ruling, a hearing is scheduled later this month,
when Chung Vu will seek permanent residency based on his summer marriage. For
Chung Vu's wife Maijue, her husband's case raises the sort of issues that would
be difficult to explain to the fourth-graders she teaches at Galtier Magnet
Elementary School in St. Paul.

"It just makes me really, really angry that they're not taking responsibility,"
she said. "It's just like a ball that's rolling and it won't stop. You fall
between the cracks and then disappear."

Blake Morrison can be reached at bmorrison@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5257.

TO HELP

Staff at Galtier Magnet Elementary School have established a legal fund for
Patrick Chung Vu and his wife, Maijue Xiong/Lochungvu, who teaches at the
school. Contributions may be sent to: Maijue Xiong/Lochungvu Legal Fund Liberty
State Bank 176 N. Snelling Ave. St. Paul, Minn. 55104

TO GET HELP
Advocates say immigrants should immediately seek legal advice if they have
questions or concerns about their case. Or, for basic questions, call the
Immigration and Naturalization Service immigration information line at (612)
854-7754.< Because of his failure to show up for an immigration hearing, Patrick
Chung Vu has spent the past 50 days in six jails in three different states. A
hearing is scheduled later this month, when Chung Vu will seek permanent
residency based on his summer marriage to Maijue Xiong, a U.S. citizen.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Chung Vu and Maijue Xiong

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          February 10, 1999 Wednesday

IMMIGRANT FREED AFTER APPARENT INS MIX-UP;
ST. PAUL MAN RELEASED ON BAIL, CASE REOPENED

BYLINE: Blake Morrison, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 437 words


A St. Paul man who spent nearly 60 days in jail over an apparent
misunderstanding with immigration authorities returned Tuesday to Minnesota.

Patrick Chung Vu, a 26-year-old Hmong immigrant who is seeking residency in the
United States, was released on bail from a North Dakota jail late Monday, and
arrived in the Twin Cities on a Greyhound bus at 5:30 a.m.

His release came nearly a week after an immigration court judge agreed to reopen
his case. Delays in transferring paperwork had kept him jailed.

"I feel wonderful," Chung Vu said early Tuesday morning, just hours after
arriving home. "I haven't slept all night. I keep thinking about all the things
I want to do: go to the movies, eat real food. It's unbelievable how we take
little things for granted."

Chung Vu, whose parents brought him to the United States as a teen-ager, had
been seeking political asylum. But because he was born in France, his asylum
case likely would have been denied. However, when he visited an Anaheim, Calif.,
Immigration and Naturalization Service office to discuss his situation in May,
he mentioned plans to marry a U.S. citizen and was encouraged to seek residency
through a spousal petition.

But according to court documents, Chung Vu may have gotten misleading official
advice about moving his case from California to Minnesota, where his
then-fiancee lived. Chung Vu said he was told that a simple change of address
form was all that was needed to reschedule a court hearing from Los Angeles to
Minnesota. After he moved to St. Paul, he twice inquired about the status of his
case at the INS offices in Bloomington, he testified. He did not learn until
Dec. 14 that a May hearing was held in Los Angeles and an order for removal had
been issued in absentia.

Normally, Chung Vu would have had 180 days to challenge the order. But the
immigration court apparently never sent Chung Vu a notice of the ruling, so he
knew nothing of the hearing or the deportation order until his arrest.

Last week, immigration Judge Margaret Reichenberger ruled that his case should
be reopened, and INS officials in Bloomington agreed to release Chung Vu on
$1,500 bail. A hearing is scheduled later this month, when Chung Vu will seek
permanent residency based on his June marriage.

Still, Chung Vu said he is taking nothing for granted.

"Even when I knew we were getting bail, I know how difficult the INS can be," he
said. "I didn't want to anticipate anything. But it's looking better," he said.
"I definitely feel much better."

Blake Morrison can be reached at bmorrison@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5257.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Chung Vu

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 28, 1999 Friday

CHARGES FILED IN ILLEGAL ADOPTION RING;
2 WOMEN ACCUSED OF SELLING CHILDREN BORN IN MEXICO FOR $20,000 OR MORE

BYLINE: Beth J. Harpaz, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Two women and a lawyer were accused Thursday of running an illegal adoption ring
that sold Mexican children to American families for $20,000 or more.

The women provided adoptions without any of the necessary paperwork for either
immigration or adoption, according to court documents. And several children,
some of whom were as young as 2 weeks old, had serious medical problems despite
assurances they were healthy.

"I'm thrilled," said Rosalie Liberto, a Long Island woman who adopted a little
girl two years ago and is still fighting to resolve her immigration status. "We
were heartbroken. We put our trust in people and they took advantage of us."

Arlene Lieberman, 48, and Arlene Reingold, 47, neighbors who live on New York's
Long Island, and Mario Reyes, a Mexican lawyer with a home in Arizona, were
charged with conspiracy to violate immigration laws in connection with 17
illegal adoptions in the Long Island area. They also were charged with mail and
wire fraud.

Court documents said the women arranged more than 500 adoptions, but those
adoptions are not being scrutinized as part of this case, assistant U.S.
attorney Timothy Macht said.

Macht said he could not comment on how the children were obtained.

Reyes, 40, was arrested Wednesday night at his home in Douglas, Ariz., which
abuts a Mexican border town called Agua Prieta where he had a law office. Each
woman was released on $150,000 bond.

The maximum for the charges is 10 years in prison for each child illegally
smuggled into the country. The wire and mail fraud charge carries a sentence of
up to 5 years in prison.

Court papers allege that Reyes paid to have babies smuggled across the border to
his Arizona home, sometimes by Mexican women posing as the children's mothers.

But some of the children had serious medical problems.

One couple was presented with a 7-year-old girl who was mentally retarded,
malnourished and also showed signs of sexual abuse. The couple, in their 50s,
returned her to Lieberman and never got a refund on their $20,000.

Authorities repeatedly denied the pair's attempts to become licensed. The two
women ran businesses called Stork International and International Adoption
Consultants, presenting themselves as adoption information experts, state DSS
officials said.

Lieberman's phone number is unlisted. A man who answered the phone at Reingold's
home had no comment. Calls placed to lawyers representing the women were not
returned.

The state attorney general's office also brought charges against the women, as
well as their husbands, Jay Lieberman and Dennis Reingold, charging them with
fraud and with repeatedly arranging illegal adoptions.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 26, 1999 Saturday

INS HAD SUSPECT IN SERIAL KILLINGS BUT LET HIM GO

BYLINE: MICHAEL GRACZYK, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


The man wanted in connection with eight slayings committed near railroad tracks
was in the custody of immigration officials earlier this month but was let go,
federal authorities said Friday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested Rafael Resendez-Ramirez in
the El Paso area during the week of June 1 for being in this country illegally
and deported him to Mexico, the FBI said. INS officials said they were unaware
he was wanted for questioning in four killings at the time.

"I'm not going to discuss whether it was a mechanical error or an error at all,"
said Don K. Clark, special agent in charge of the Houston FBI office and head of
a task force pursuing him.

The INS took a photo of Resendez-Ramirez, a master of disguise, on June 2 that
shows him with a mustache and without glasses, said agency spokesman Russ
Bergeron. In earlier photos he has had glasses and other facial hair. He's also
been photographed clean shaven.

Four of the eight slayings linked to Resendez-Ramirez have occurred since he was
taken into custody and released soon thereafter. Two were in Texas and two were
in Illinois.

An FBI task force of more than 200 investigators has been fielding hundreds of
tips since Resendez-Ramirez, believed to be 38, went on the agency's 10 Most
Wanted list Monday.

He has been charged with the two slayings in Illinois and is suspected of a 1997
Kentucky killing and five since last fall in Texas. A common thread is that the
crimes occurred in homes near railroad tracks.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
The immigration Service made this photo of suspect Rafael
Resendez-Ramirez in June.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 3, 1999 Saturday

MAN CHARGED WITH POSING AS LAWYER;
WEST ST. PAUL MAN SWINDLED $60,000, SAY AUTHORITIES

BYLINE: Rachel E. Stassen-Berger, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 283 words


Hennepin County authorities charged a West St. Paul man Friday with posing as an
immigration lawyer who could help people with their immigration status.

Juan Flores, also known as Juan Roman Flores-Olivetti, Michael Leroy Hughes and
Leroy M. Hughes, was charged with three counts of felony theft by swindle using
artifice, trick, device or other means.

According to the complaint, Flores told Margarita Martinez-Tavira he could help
her get a deportation order suspended for $3,000. Ricardo Duarte Bautisto hired
him to help obtain a work permit and permanent residency at a cost of $1,300,
the complaint said, and for $1,200 he said he could help R. Nicolas Sanchez with
insurance matters after a car accident.

Flores, who most recently lived on East Sidney Street in West St. Paul, did
little or nothing to help the clients he took on, the complaint says.

In all, the complaint cited 39 victims and said he had swindled people out of
$59,666.

"Juan Flores took criminal advantage of vulnerable people," said Amy Klobuchar,
Hennepin County Attorney. "His victims trusted him not only with their money but
with their very lives."

For each count he faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $100,000
fine.

He used papers from another attorney's office, claiming to work with him, the
complaint said, but never sent anything to the Immigration Naturalization
Service. Some of his victims were threatened with deportation orders and
although he told them he could get the orders suspended, he filed no papers with
the INS.

Rachel E. Stassen-Berger, who covers Minneapolis news, can be reached at
rstassen-berger@pioneerpress.com or (612) 338-8198.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 10, 1999 Tuesday

SOME JAILED IMMIGRANTS MAY WIN BAIL;
REVIEWS AFFECT DEPORTEES CONVICTED OF MINOR CRIMES

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 634 words


A small number of immigrants with criminal convictions awaiting deportation in
Minnesota and the Dakotas may have their cases reviewed because of changes in
immigration laws.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is reviewing thousands of cases
of immigrants awaiting deportation nationwide and releasing some on bail who
officials believe aren't dangerous or likely to run.

The changes may affect 500 to 700 of the 15,000 immigrants nationwide with
criminal cases in INS custody at any time, according to Russ Bergeron, an INS
spokesman in Washington, D.C.

The Minnesota district, which includes North and South Dakota, has 41
deportation candidates, most of them Southeast Asian immigrants, said Deputy
District Director Dean Hove.

Southeast Asian immigrants account for about half the cases nationwide, with
Cuban immigrants who arrived in the Mariel boatlift in the early 1980s
accounting for the other half, Bergeron said.

The changes follow a dozen federal court rulings across the country that struck
down the previous INS policy of detaining without bail all people eligible for
deportation for previous criminal histories.

The mandatory detention resulted from a 1996 law passed by Congress that took
away the discretion by judges to allow some potential deportees to be released
on bond pending their hearings.

In some cases, people who had already served sentences for minor, nonviolent
crimes long ago or who had received suspended sentences were being picked up by
the INS and held without bond in local jails and prisons at federal expense.

The law also put many other deportable immigrants in a legal limbo if their home
country refused to take them back.

Countries like Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam and Cuba refuse to accept deportees, so
immigrants who normally would have been deported were put in detention
indefinitely with no legal recourse to appeal under the INS' previous
interpretation of the 1996 law.

Under a new policy that went into effect this spring, the INS began weeding out
the immigrants with minor criminal records for possible release under bail.

Karen Ellingson, executive director of the Immigrant Law Center in St. Paul,
said she had one such case where a Vietnamese man who had served time for a
minor drug possession charge in Sioux Falls, S.D., in 1997 was arrested by the
INS, which then proceeded to deport him.

Because Vietnam doesn't accept deportees, he could have languished in federal
custody indefinitely, but the new policy allowed him to be released on condition
he stay out of trouble. He lost his permanent residency status but was granted a
renewed one-year work visa, and his case will come up for consideration in a few
months.

If he stays out of trouble, he could eventually be allowed to stay, according to
the new rules.

But Ellingson also noted she handles other cases, such as one involving a
Sudanese man with an aggravated robbery charge against him, who would not be
eligible for release on bond.

The man's crime was too serious and he finished his sentence after a federal
cutoff of Oct. 9, 1998. Those who finished their sentences before that date
could be eligible for release on bond.

"It's a step in the right direction," said Judy Mark, spokeswoman for the
National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration advocacy group based in
Washington.

The policy could help immigrants "who present no danger to American society,"
she said.

DETAILS
The new rules may affect 500 to 700 of the 15,000 immigrants nationwide with
criminal cases in federal custody at any time. The Minnesota district, which
includes North and South Dakota, has 41 deportation candidates, most of them
Southeast Asian immigrants.
Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or (651)
228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 20, 1999 Monday

SALVADORAN FIGHTS TO REMAIN IN U.S.;
'80S PROTESTER HURTADO HAS HEARING TUESDAY

BYLINE: Lucy Quinlivan, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 797 words


When Rene Hurtado came to Minnesota in 1982, he was a 24-year-old illegal
immigrant - a refugee from the Salvadoran military - with a deportation order he
said he didn't know about hanging over his head.

He had found sanctuary in a Minnetonka church after moving from Arizona to
Colorado and Idaho. Fearing for the safety of the family he left in El Salvador,
he used a pseudonym and wore a bandanna over his face when he appeared in public
to protest U.S. support of his home country's government.

Today he's 41, a father of two, a soccer coach and an ordained deacon of St.
Luke's Presbyterian Church, where he lived in the third-grade classroom for the
first six months of his Minnesota residency.

And after 17 years, he is still fighting the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's attempts to return him to El Salvador.

Hurtado, whose real name is Gonzalo de Jesus Larin-Lara, is to appear Tuesday in
Immigration Court in Bloomington.

"I think it's a tragedy that we're having to do this, but we're going to do it,"
said Nancy Berneking, a close friend and member of the St. Luke's congregation.
She has known Hurtado since he arrived in Minnesota and expects to testify on
his behalf.

"We're talking 17 years, almost half his life," she said. "To uproot him at this
point is just evil."

Hurtado became an icon of the Twin Cities protests against U.S. involvement in
Central America. He went on a hunger strike at Fort Benning, Ga., to protest
training of Salvadoran soldiers and officers.

"He was a symbol," said former St. Paul Mayor Jim Scheibel. "It was a way to
communicate to a much larger group of people why people were seeking asylum and
coming to this country.

"The Twin Cities community had a lot of people that paid attention to what was
happening in Central America," Scheibel said.

One of them was Andy Dawkins, a lawyer and Democratic-Farmer-Labor legislator
who has represented St. Paul since 1987.

"I think that the United States government's involvement in Central America was
very suspect for a long time, but it took a lot of Renes and (others) to get the
rest of the country to see that we needed to change," said Dawkins, who attended
some protests with Hurtado.

The INS has opposed Hurtado's plea for permanent residency based on newspaper
articles about his description of rapes, torture and murders committed by
Salvadoran army members. Hurtado didn't speak English at the time, but
translators said he participated in the crimes. Ron Rosenbaum, a lawyer for
Hurtado, said in 1997 when the residency application was denied that Hurtado
described what he only saw and that the interpreters got it wrong.

Neither Rosenbaum nor INS officials would comment on Tuesday's hearing or
Hurtado's application.

Berneking believes Hurtado, who spoke out about the training he got from U.S.
intelligence officers, became a target of an embarrassed federal government. Two
former high-ranking Salvadoran officials - the head of the National Guard and
the defense minister - have permanent residency and are living in Florida.

"These were the people who gave the orders - we've given them permanent
residency," Berneking said. "It's quite bizarre they'd be going after someone
who refused to carry out those orders."

As a congressional aide in the 1980s, U.S. Rep. James McGovern, D-Mass.,
monitored human rights violations in El Salvador and was the lead investigator
on a United Nations commission that probed the 1989 murder there of six Jesuit
priests and two women.

"I'm beside myself that they're here," he said of the onetime Salvadoran
officials living in Florida. At the very least, McGovern said, the men were
involved in covering up war crimes, if not giving orders for the acts.

He's not familiar enough with Hurtado's case to say whether he would support or
oppose his residency, he said. But he said of former Salvadoran military men
seeking asylum here:

"They're all Boy Scouts to the press, they've found God. But it doesn't change
the fact they're responsible for the murders of hundreds of civilians.

"I understand his frustration" of knowing his former superiors are enjoying
residency in Florida, McGovern said of Hurtado. "But as a general rule, my
feeling is that the United States should not be a haven for people who commit
human rights violations."

Berneking doesn't think Hurtado belongs in the group McGovern would bar.

"I believe he is truthful when he says that he didn't do that stuff. He
certainly saw it," she said.

"He did a remarkable thing, to leave his huge family ... to come here and expose
himself to risk, to tell the story of what was going on in El Salvador and try
to stop the killing."

Lucy Quinlivan can be reached at lquinlivan@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5485.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: File photo
Rene Hurtado, fourth from left, was among hunger strikers demanding an
end to U.S. military aid to El Salvador at a December 1989 rally in
front of the Cathedral of St. Paul.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 22, 1999 Wednesday

HURTADO STATES RESIDENCY CASE;
SALVADORAN PROMINENT IN 1980S FIGHTS INS DECISION

BYLINE: Lucy Quinlivan Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 603 words


Rene Hurtado wept on the stand Tuesday as he tried to explain the crisis of
conscience he felt when ordered back into combat in the civil war in his
homeland.

The order was punishment, he said, because his superiors in the El Salvador
treasury police thought he was going soft when he refused to cut off a
prisoner's head.

Hurtado, who now uses the name Rene Larin, appeared before Immigration Judge
Robert Vinikoor in Bloomington to fight the 1996 denial of his application for
permanent residency.

Hurtado, now 41, came to the United States illegally in 1981. The following
year, a small Minnetonka Presbyterian congregation whose members opposed U.S.
involvement in Central America offered to shelter the 24-year-old refugee. He
spoke out about the violent war crimes of the Salvadoran police and the training
U.S. agents gave them - teaching that included how to maim someone for life.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is challenging his fitness to
stay, based on five newspaper articles from the early 1980s in which Hurtado
allegedly admits participating in rapes, torture and murder as a member of the
Salvadoran treasury police.

"We feel that the acts that are referred to, attributed to him on numerous
occasions, are serious incidents and need to be investigated as fully as
possible," said Tim Counts, a spokesman for the INS. "In all the years Mr. Larin
has been in the country, we've never had a chance to question him about those
statements."

The government will have its chance to cross-examine Hurtado today. He is the
first of four or five witnesses his lawyers plan to call.

Questioned first by his lawyer Ron Rosenbaum on Tuesday, Hurtado said he knew
little or no English when he first came to the United States and had no way of
knowing whether translators gave reporters accurate accounts of his story. In
describing the mayhem police committed, he used "we" instead of "they" to
bolster his credibility.

"A lot of times I say 'we' because I was part of the treasury police, and the
treasury police was performing" the acts he described, said Hurtado, who was a
commissary cashier - a sought-after position because of the opportunities for
graft - before becoming a presidential palace guard for the junta that took
power in October 1979.

"I never killed anybody," said Hurtado.

Rosenbaum told the court Hurtado had been hounded by a handful of the articles
written about his numerous speeches.

"He is being asked to defend his own life for what he said through a translator
he didn't hire to a reporter he didn't know," Rosenbaum said.

"I would like one human being to confirm these articles - to say they heard Rene
say these things," he said.

Rich Soli, counsel for the INS, said the whole case is focused on the newspaper
articles. "But for that, he probably would have been a citizen in 1987," when he
became a temporary resident.

Hurtado's supporters, many of them members of the church that gave him sanctuary
17 years ago, crowded the small courtroom and the lobby outside. Now an ordained
deacon in the church, he remains on close terms and they are familiar with the
smallest details of his past and present.

When the name of a former girlfriend in El Salvador escaped both Hurtado and his
lawyer, someone in the audience provided it.

"Having known Rene for 17 years so intimately, having seen his behavior, the
kind of father he is, I believe what he says," said Wally Faster.

"I find it disappointing his life has been in limbo for so long."

Lucy Quinlivan can be reached at lquinlivan@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5485.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Marshall, Pioneer Press
Rene Hurtado, who now uses the name Rene Larin, hugs his 11-month-old
son Ariel on Tuesday after appearing at a U.S. Immigration Court
hearing in Bloomington. Hurtado, a 41-year-old refugee from El
Salvador's military, fled his country in 1981. He entered the United
States illegally and soon came to Minnesota, where he was sheltered in
a Minnetonka church. He is now fighting the 1996 denial of his
application for permanent residency.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 23, 1999 Thursday

HURTADO DEFENDS HIS ACTIONS IN EL SALVADOR;
REFUGEE'S MILITARY CONDUCT AT ISSUE IN LONG-RUNNING DEPORTATION CASE

BYLINE: Lucy Quinlivan Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 642 words


Rene Hurtado defended his record as a soldier in the second day of a hearing to
determine whether the El Salvadoran refugee can stay in the United States.

Rich Soli, a lawyer for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, said he
was trying to get from Hurtado's testimony what he couldn't establish with
newspaper articles recounting Hurtado's alleged crimes in his homeland during
its civil war: the truth.

Hurtado, 41, came to the United States in 1981 after he left the Salvadoran
Treasury Police. He took sanctuary in St. Luke Presbyterian Church in Minnetonka
the next year and began speaking out about war crimes in El Salvador and
training he received from U.S. intelligence or military officers.

He has applied for asylum repeatedly and is now in Immigration Court fighting
the INS' denial of his application for permanent residency. The government says
Hurtado is ineligible for refugee status because U.S. law prohibits that
privilege for anyone who has persecuted others or committed a serious
non-political crime before coming to the United States.

Immigration Judge Robert Vinikoor may give Hurtado an answer today. His lawyers
wrapped up their case Wednesday; Soli asked the judge to stop the proceedings in
Bloomington until today, as he is awaiting word from INS officials about whether
they want to request a continuance and subpoena the reporters who wrote the
articles in question.

Hurtado denies he tortured, killed or raped anyone.

"If they claim he engaged in the persecution of others, it seems to me they have
the burden of proving it," said Ron Rosenbaum, Hurtado's lawyer.

Soli delved into details of an incident mentioned in a July 8, 1984, article in
the Minneapolis Star and Tribune.

The article stated Hurtado, who now goes by the name Rene Larin, told a reporter
he had raped a woman without fear of punishment because of his membership in the
Treasury Police. It also states Hurtado said he tortured people with electric
shocks, burned them with cigarettes, tore off their skin with a knife and beat
prisoners.

Hurtado, his facial muscles visibly tightened, testified Wednesday that the
incident, which he did not view as a rape at the time, occurred shortly after
martial law was declared in El Salvador. As he guarded a hospital early one
morning, he saw two women on the street despite a strict curfew that allowed him
to shoot them simply for breaking it. He stopped and questioned them; one of the
women offered to have sex with him if he would let them go, Hurtado said, and he
accepted.

He began calling it a rape, he said, when he understood that though the woman
had offered herself, she had no real choice.

Soli explored why Hurtado would violate his military orders. He had already
determined the women lied to him, and he knew rebels used women to divert
soldiers' attention from their posts "all the time."

Soli and Vinikoor also questioned why neither Hurtado nor his supporters at the
church failed to complain to the newspapers.

"A lot of people would resist having a label of rapist or torturer around his
neck," Soli said to Hurtado.

The Rev. Richard Lundy, Hurtado's former pastor at St. Luke, testified that the
attention Hurtado drew to U.S. activities in Central America excited the
congregation's affluent members. They courted the media, arranging for the
speeches that hinder Hurtado's quest for U.S. residency today.

"If we made any serious blunder, it was not protecting him from misstatement,"
Lundy said. "We were naive in not insisting (the articles) be corrected."

Either side can appeal the judge's decision to the Board of Immigration Appeals.
Should Hurtado lose at that stage, he could file a petition for review with the
8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

Lucy Quinlivan can be reached at lquinlivan@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5485.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 24, 1999 Friday

HURTADO PREVAILS IN 17-YEAR STRUGGLE FOR U.S. RESIDENCY;
JUDGE SIDES WITH SALVADORAN EMBRACED BY ACTIVISTS IN '80S

BYLINE: Lucy Quinlivan, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 673 words


Rene Hurtado won permanent U.S. residency Thursday, and one of the first things
on his mind was a trip out of the country he's fought to call home.

Now that he is free to leave the country and return legally, Hurtado said he
would go to Costa Rica to see his parents and nine of his brothers and sisters
living there.

The former soldier from El Salvador was in immigration court this week facing
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, which has opposed his
applications for asylum and residency since 1982 because of newspaper articles
that stated he admitted to acts of rape, murder and torture during his country's
civil war.

"I can resume my life," Hurtado said after Immigration Judge Robert Vinikoor's
decision. Hurtado, a Minneapolis security guard, said his 17-year quest had
affirmed his belief in the struggle for human rights and that he is sympathetic
to the U.S. government's efforts to keep war criminals out of the country.

"I am not that," said Hurtado, who went to law school after earning a degree
from the University of Minnesota. "I am not and never have been."

Hurtado, who now uses the name Rene Larin, entered the United States illegally
in 1981 and a year later received sanctuary in a Minnetonka Presbyterian church.
He became a prolific speaker for the movement opposing U.S. policies on Central
America, telling publicly of war crimes by his comrades in El Salvador's
treasury police and their training by U.S. operatives.

He was vigorously cross-examined about an incident he related Tuesday concerning
whether his sexual conduct with a young woman while he was a guard could be
criminal. Hurtado said he had caught two women on the street after curfew and
that one of them offered to have sex with him in return for their release.
Hurtado accepted, he said.

Vinikoor noted that Hurtado had testified candidly, admitting his membership in
the treasury police, that he had kicked a suspected drug smuggler and that he
had witnessed an incident in which prisoners were beaten and stabbed, but denied
that he had directly participated in anyone's torture or persecution.

Hurtado maintained translators gave reporters a poor interpretation of his words
or misunderstood his intent when he used "we" instead of "they" when describing
police who committed the violent acts.

"It's a complete victory," said Kenneth Tilsen, co-counsel for Hurtado. "The
judge ruled that Rene was credible and the newspapers were not - that there were
plenty of reasons why they were wrong."

INS counsel Richard Soli said he would carefully consider the immigration
judge's ruling before deciding whether to go to the Board of Immigration
Appeals.

"I think this was a fair hearing, and I believe in the process," Soli said. The
government pursued the case - and delayed it - for so long because Hurtado was
an illegal alien whom it suspected had committed violent crimes.

"I thought the government had a responsibility to air these serious charges," he
said.

Gwen Bottily testified that she witnessed an inaccurate translation of Hurtado's
words at one of his speeches. Members of St. Luke Presbyterian Church had asked
her, because of her fluent Spanish, to take Hurtado into her home when he first
arrived.

Bottily said she was arrested, tortured and imprisoned in Argentina when she
lived there in 1976. She believed she would be able to tell whether Hurtado was
telling the truth because of her experience.

"I immediately trusted Rene," she said, because she believed that he was honest
with her and that he had left the Salvadoran military.

Hurtado's wife, Deanne Westerlund Larin, expressed relief that she and her
husband can get on with their lives and that she'll meet his family in Costa
Rica.

"There's just no excuse, in my mind, to let this action sit for so long and then
open it up again," she said. "We're certainly hopeful there will be no appeal
and that this will be the end of it."

Lucy Quinlivan can be reached at lquinlivan@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5485.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Marshall, Pioneer Press
Rene Hurtado, who now uses the name Rene Larin, hugged his
11-month-old son Ariel on Tuesday after appearing at an immigration
hearing in Bloomington. Hurtado, a 41-year-old refugee from El
Salvador's military, fled his country in 1981 and soon arrived in
Minnesota. Sheltered in a Minnetonka church, he became a figure in
peace activism involving Central America in the 1980s.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 12, 1999 Tuesday

BAR-CODE BREAKERS;
IN CONTROVERSIES OVER IDS, AN 11TH-GRADER FROM LOUISIANA AND TWO CONGRESSMEN
SHOW THAT THE LITTLE GUY CAN STILL BEAT BIG BROTHER.

BYLINE: LISA S. DEAN, COMMENTATOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 801 words


Fans of "The X-Files" might remember a line from the movie: "One man alone
cannot fight the future." In light of recent events, I'm not so sure about that.

Last week, grass-roots America could legitimately claim a victory over Big
Brother. The Senate approved, by a vote of 88-3, the Transportation
Appropriations conference report containing an amendment by Sen. Richard Shelby,
R-Ala., repealing Section 656(b) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act of 1996. That section established the standard for a national
ID card for every American citizen. The House passed the bill on Oct. 1 by a
vote of 304-91, with an identical amendment being offered by Rep. Frank Wolf,
R-Va.

In 1996, Congress passed the immigration act as a way of combating illegal
immigration, a legitimate concern. However, a section of that legislation
mandated to states that the driver's licenses they issue must conform to federal
standards established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

Part of the compliance of this section requires states to use Social Security
numbers as the unique numeric identifier. In effect the law and the proposed
Transportation regulations created a national ID card that every citizen would
have to carry and show to government and private-sector authorities on request
in order to prove citizenship. The idea was to later include more personal
information on the ID card, such as medical and financial data.

The section caused even further erosion of our constitutional rights, forcing
every American to prove U.S. citizenship before receiving a service or
conducting his or her daily affairs. Historically, such systems have existed
only in police states. And historically, those systems have proved to be
failures in the end.

While the battle over the national ID card and those rights continued for more
than a year, it seems that victory is finally ours.

On the grass-roots front, there was more good news. At the beginning of the
school year in Ruston, La., high-school students at Ruston High School were
informed that they had to wear an ID badge containing their photograph, name and
Social Security number.

These school-mandated badges would allow them to participate in the school's
federally funded free-lunch program and check out books in the school library.
Without the badges, not only would the students not be able to participate in
these ordinary daily activities, but they would also be subject to detention or
suspension for refusing to wear them.

One student, Rachel Winchel, an 11th-grader, objected to wearing her badge on
the grounds that it infringed on her constitutional rights. When she objected,
she was told by the principal that although he sympathized with her concerns,
those were the rules and she had to abide by them as long as she was a student.

Initially, Rachel cut off the bar code at the bottom of the badge, which
contained her Social Security number, and nothing happened. Then, as the days
wore on, she decided to stop wearing the badge altogether.

Her sister, Amanda, followed her lead, and while she ended up in the principal's
office, no action was taken against Rachel, who argued her case based on laws
and regulations already in existence.

On Oct. 1, Rachel told me that the principal of her school had made an
announcement over the PA system informing the students that the policy had been
changed. While they still have to wear the ID badges with their names and
photographs, they don't have to have the Social Security number on it if they
don't wish.

Directly after the principal's announcement, 75 percent of Rachel's schoolmates
cut off the bar-coded Social Security numbers from their ID badges. Out of 1,200
students, Rachel was the only one to object, and yet she was speaking for 75
percent of her classmates. It was a battle well-fought and won by one student.

What struck me most out of Rachel's story was her comment: "I just want things
done right. I don't understand why that is too much to ask out of people."

Well, Rachel, it shouldn't be, but it often is because so many people either
lack courage or are too afraid to speak out. It takes only one person - as is
evidenced in Rachel's own situation, as well as that of Sen. Shelby and Rep.
Wolf - to face the enemy with courage and, by doing so, to be the voice for
thousands around you who don't share your courage.

So maybe one man out of billions in the world cannot fight the future, but the
evidence in hand shows that one person from every sector of society can fight
and win.

Dean is vice president for technology policy at the Free Congress Foundation, a
conservative research and advocacy organization at 717 Second St. N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20002. Distributed by KRT News Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 26, 1999 Tuesday

INS APPEALS RULING IN HURTADO CASE;
INCONSISTENCIES, JUDGE'S ERRORS ALLEGED IN NOTICE

BYLINE: Lucy Quinlivan Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 598 words


In a move that surprised and disappointed El Salvadoran immigrant Rene Hurtado,
the federal government on Monday appealed a judge's September decision giving
him permanent residency.

"I thought that this would be over and they will go on, into other issues," said
Hurtado, who now uses the name Rene Larin.

"Sometimes, I tend to believe this is just vindictiveness, remnants of the Cold
War, because I spoke out against the government."

Hurtado, a onetime member of the Salvadoran military and treasury police, found
sanctuary in a Minnetonka church in 1982. He toured this country to denounce
U.S. support of the right-wing Salvadoran government.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service contends Hurtado participated in
torture, rape and murder as a police officer in El Salvador and that he does not
deserve residency.

In a memorandum filed with its notice of appeal, the INS alleges inconsistencies
between a 1990 affidavit and Hurtado's testimony at last month's hearing.
District Counsel Richard Soli wrote that Hurtado failed to prove his innocence
and was refusing to answer when he said he couldn't remember the names of two
former girlfriends, interpreters, a former fellow guard in El Salvador and a
bilingual student.

The memo states the government was deprived of a fair hearing because of
Immigration Judge Robert Vinikoor's errors.

At a news conference Sept. 23 after Vinikoor's decision, Soli said he thought
the hearing was fair.

"Apparently, on review of the situation, he thought otherwise," INS spokesman
Tim Counts said. Counts said Soli made the decision to take the case to the
Board of Immigration Appeals.

Evidence the government presented at the hearing consisted of half a dozen
newspaper articles that quoted Hurtado, who spoke no English at the time, as
claiming he witnessed and participated in war crimes. Hurtado testified that
interpreters presented a poor English translation of his words or that reporters
got the story wrong.

Vinikoor ruled that Hurtado apparently had testified truthfully and that the
newspaper articles were not inherently trustworthy.

If he were being tried for alleged crimes in state or federal court, the
government would have to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Hurtado committed
the atrocities. But under immigration law, the burden of proving fitness falls
on the person seeking U.S. residency.

Soli wrote in his memorandum that Hurtado provided no evidence to corroborate
his "self-serving and selective" testimony.

The INS ordered Hurtado deported from California in 1981 but mistakenly
instructed him to wait for a deportation hearing date from the agency. He waited
in the Southwest for a year, his defense attorney, Ron Rosenbaum, said. But he
moved on to Minnesota and sanctuary in St. Luke Presbyterian Church.

Hurtado said he was being truthful in his testimony.

"I answered the questions that were presented to me," he said Monday. "I don't
remember whether they asked me the name of the other police officer" at last
month's hearing, he said.

"Rene had no knowledge of who these translators were," Rosenbaum said. "But he
did produce an interpreter who made clear that what she heard was wrong."

"Every step of the way, the INS has been defeated and the reason is that Rene is
a truthful person," said Ron Rosenbaum, Hurtado's lawyer.

"It's truly an abuse of government power to continue to force this guy to fight
the INS," Rosenbaum said. "Seventeen-plus years is enough. We won."

Lucy Quinlivan can be reached at lquinlivan@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5485.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Rene Hurtado

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 8, 1999 Wednesday

TERRORISM CONCERNS STILL NO REASON TO HOLD PRISONERS BASED ON 'SECRET' EVIDENCE

BYLINE: Barbara Nimri Aziz, Commentator

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 629 words


The U.S. government must stop the practice of using secret evidence to detain
people.

U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno did the right thing last week when she approved
a New York Board of Immigration Appeals decision to free Nasser K. Ahmed. Ahmed
joined his family after 45 months in prison. He had been jailed based on secret
evidence, which eventually an immigration judge ruled illegal. But Ahmed is not
the only case of injustice by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

About 20 individuals - most of them Muslim or Arab residents - across the United
States have been subject to questionable practices by the INS. They are jailed,
often without charge, on the basis of secret evidence supplied to the INS by the
FBI.

Although these men are not U.S. citizens, most are legal residents. In several
cases, they are married to American citizens and have children who also are U.S.
citizens. In most cases, the imprisoned individuals are not even charged, but
remain in prison pending deportation. The actions against these men do not
originate with local police but with the FBI working in conjunction with the
INS.

In October, when another Arab immigrant, Hany Kieraldeen, was released from
custody, U.S. District Judge William Walls of New Jersey concluded that the
secret evidence against Kieraldeen by the INS, once subject to examination, was
baseless.

The 1996 Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act created an atmosphere of
hostility against Arabs and Muslims in this country that the INS and FBI took as
a green light to institute a campaign targeting these groups. Their practices
are anathema to our judicial system. Fortunately for the preservation of
democracy, several of the imprisoned men decided to fight and received the
support and attention of constitutional experts. Their defense attorneys
demanded to be shown whatever evidence INS was using for its deportation
judgments. And when government attorneys were forced to reveal their sources in
a federal court, it was the INS that was on shaky ground.

Nasser Ahmed was never charged with a crime, but the INS cited "national
security implications" to keep him locked up - even after a judge ruled he
should be released.

Ahmed's case is instructive because, according to his testimony of events
leading to his arrest, the FBI initially approached him for assistance as a
possible collaborator. "They said, if you help us identify some suspects in the
Muslim community, we'll see that you can stay in the country without
difficulty," Ahmed said. But he refused, saying he was not interested in a deal.
Before long, he was picked up and taken to jail for deportation, on the excuse
that he had overstayed his residency permit. "I have never been charged with any
crime," he said, two years into his 3 1/2-year imprisonment.

Ahmed decided to fight his deportation because members of his family are U.S.
citizens and because he believes he would face imprisonment and torture in his
native Egypt, since he is a known critic of the Egyptian government.

Ahmed and the men who still languish in jail based on secret evidence are there
because the INS has clearly overstepped the law. The Anti-Terrorism Act, passed
hastily and with little debate in 1996, appears to have given immigration
officials a license to circumvent the U.S. Constitution. We need to take that
license away.

Sixty members of Congress are working to ban the use of secret evidence. Until
our lawmakers act, the constitutional rights of everyone in the United States
are in jeopardy.
Aziz is an anthropologist and journalist based in New York City. She can be
reached in care of the Progressive Media Project, 409 E. Main St., Madison, Wis.
53703. Distributed for the project by KRT News Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 23, 2000 Sunday

GRANDMOTHERS BEG RENO FOR ELIAN;
RENO EXPRESSES SUPPORT, BUT SAYS DECISION IS COURT'S

BYLINE: LARRY MARGASAK, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers, said to be crying as they told Attorney General
Janet Reno in a private meeting "how much they are suffering," appealed for help
Saturday in removing the boy from his Florida relatives and reuniting him with
his father in Cuba.

The grandmothers gave her a letter expressing the wish that Elian be returned to
"the normality of life with his father, brother, family, friends at schools, his
toys, dog and parrot."

Reno, who has supported Elian's return, said in a written statement the
grandmothers "made a very compassionate and heartfelt plea" but that the matter
now is in federal court.

"We maintain that the law recognizes the unique relationship between parent and
child and that family reunification has long been a cornerstone" of U.S
immigration law as well as Immigration and Naturalization Service practice,
Reno's statement said.

Attorneys for the boy's relatives in Florida have asked a federal judge to
prevent his return before he has an asylum hearing.

Mariela Quintana, the boy's paternal grandmother, and maternal grandmother
Raquel Rodriguez did not speak to reporters after the 45-minute meeting at the
Justice Department. But their three-paragraph letter was released, and officials
of the U.S. and Cuban Council of Churches described their sentiments afterward.

"The two grandmothers expressed how much they are suffering" because of this
separation from their family on behalf of Elian Gonzalez, the Very Rev. Oden
Marichal, head of the Cuban church group, told reporters.

"This has been a very good opportunity for them to express their deep feeling as
grandmothers to the (attorney general) asking the return of Elian to Cuba."

The INS has ordered the boy returned to Cuba. Reno has agreed, saying the
youngster belongs with his father in the communist island where he was reared.
The grandmothers sought the meeting with Reno and Doris Meissner, the INS
commissioner, U.S. officials said.

Officials from National Council of Churches, which represent mainline Protestant
denominations, have been serving as the grandmothers' hosts during their stay of
undetermined length in the United States.

The Rev. Bob Edgar, a former Democratic House member and general secretary of
the church organization, said the grandmothers' only plans so far were to return
Saturday to New York City. No plans have been announced for the women to visit
the boy in Miami or to return home. But the grandmothers wrote in their letter:
"We only have Sunday to see Elian, and we not only want to see him, but we also
want to return with him to Cuba."

The women must go to Miami to visit Elian, said Armando Gutierrez, spokesman for
the Florida relatives caring for the youngster.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ROBERT MECEA, Associated Press
Cuban grandmothers Raquel Rodriguez, second from left, and Mariela
Quintana, second from right, are escorted by officials from the
National Council of Churches as they leave New York on Saturday and
head toward Washington to meet with Attorney General Janet Reno
concerning the fate of their grandson, Elian Gonzalez.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 13, 2000 Sunday

MOM CAUGHT IN LEGAL TANGLE WILL BE DEPORTED;
EVEN INS SAYS LAW ALLOWS NO FLEXIBILITY

BYLINE: PEGGY ANDERSEN, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


On Valentine's Day, it will be exactly five months since Emma Mendez de Hay was
arrested by immigration officials on her return from a trip to meet her fiance's
family in Italy.

She's been in an Immigration and Naturalization Service detention facility in
Louisiana ever since. On Thursday, a judge there ordered her deported to her
native Mexico, where she hasn't lived for 20 years.

De Hay, a legal U.S. resident with a green card, has run afoul of a 1996
immigration law intended to tighten U.S. borders against dangerous criminals.

The 39-year-old mother of four admits she made a "stupid mistake" in 1990. A
Spanish-speaking cousin staying at her home in Puyallup, near Tacoma, asked her
to speak to a person who had telephoned.

"Tell him I can't help him today," the cousin said. "I'll help him tomorrow."

Because her cousin did not speak English well, de Hay said she passed on the
message.

The next day, she was visited by federal agents: The caller was an undercover
officer; the call was about cocaine.

In 1992, de Hay pleaded guilty to a felony charge of using a communication
device to facilitate the distribution of cocaine. She cooperated with
authorities.

"Emma was promised a recommendation of not being incarcerated, as well as not
being deported and taken away from her entire family," her attorney in that
case, Erik Bauer, wrote. "It is a travesty of justice that the government is now
trying to deport her."

She was mystified when INS agents stopped her in New York when she returned from
Italy on Sept. 14.

She is most concerned for her two youngest children, 10- and 13-year-old boys
now staying with family members in the Puget Sound area, and her 77-year-old
mother, who is ill.

De Hay's attorney, Glen Prior, says the Board of Immigration Appeals could take
more than a year to review the case - and the law bars de Hay's release on bond.

The 1996 law - the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act -
expanded the list of "aggravated felonies" that prompt deportation, and allowed
deportation to be applied retroactively to crimes committed before the law was
passed.

It also made deportation automatic. Once deported, Prior says, de Hay could be
jailed for 20 years if she tried to re-enter the United States.

Some members of Congress are trying to amend the law, which even the INS says is
inflexible.

A bill offered by Reps. Bob McCollum, R-Fla., and Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Texas,
would allow the U.S. attorney general to waive automatic deportation and allow a
hearing if there is no danger to person or property, said McCollum's
spokeswoman.

A measure by Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., and other Democrats would restore
discretion for immigration judges.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 19, 2000 Saturday

JUDGE REFUSES IMMIGRATION CASE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Confronting one of the same legal issues of the center of the Elian Gonzalez
case, a federal judge refused to get involved Friday in the case of 17-year-old
boy fighting deportation to Somalia. U.S. District Judge Alan Gold ruled he
lacks jurisdiction to help the teen, who is known in court only as Abdul and
claims to know of no relatives left alive in his homeland. Abdul had asked the
judge to order that his case be heard in state court. The judge said that even
if he had legal authority to intervene, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service acted properly in deciding to send the teen back to Somalia. The
question of jurisdiction also figures in Elian's case, which will be argued
Tuesday before a different judge. Abdul flew into Miami by himself Dec. 23.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associated Press
Iwo Jima veterans Joseph Topor, center, and Russell Bagley, left, take
part in a ceremony marking the 55th anniversary of the World War II
battle Friday at the Statehouse in Boston.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      April 1, 2000 Saturday CITY EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAW TAKES CHILD'S AGE INTO ACCOUNT

BYLINE: Christopher Marquis, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 622 words


Here are answers to questions about U.S. immigration law, about how the
government usually handles asylum cases and about the nature of the Gonzalez
case.

Q. What is the usual procedure for handling a minor asylum seeker whose
surviving parent seeks custody in the child's country of origin?

A. It depends on the child's age. The older he is, the more likely he will be
allowed to speak for himself and argue that he fears persecution if sent home.
That involves a judgment call by the attorney general or her representatives.

Q. A Ukrainian boy, Walter Polovchak, 12, made headlines two decades ago when he
refused to return to the Soviet Union with his parents. State and federal courts
ruled he was not old enough to make such a decision, but the process dragged on
until Polovchak turned 18, at which point he was declared an adult and the
courts granted him the right to stay in the United States.

A. Elian is much younger. "A 6-year-old child is in no position to speak for
himself and sign any application for asylum," said Jose Pertierra, a
Cuban-American immigration lawyer in Washington.

The law requires turning to the boy's surviving parent to represent his
interests. Jose Miguel Gonzalez has refused to seek asylum for his son. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service ruled that his refusal trumped a bid for
asylum on Elian's behalf by his grand-uncle's family in Miami.

Q. Are there any special legal exceptions for Cuban asylum seekers or for others
from countries with which the United States is at odds?

A. U.S. asylum is granted to those who are deemed to have a credible fear of
persecution if they are sent home. There are no special exceptions for refugees
from Cuba or other countries hostile to the United States.

However, under the Cuban Adjustment Act, Cubans who spend a year in the United
States are eligible for a green card and permanent residency status, a benefit
that takes other nationalities longer to acquire.

Vice President Al Gore backs legislation to give Elian permanent residency
immediately. But if Elian's father opposes that action, the law would side with
the parent and make any such action moot until the boy turned 18.

Q. How many cases like Elian's does the United States confront?

A. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, which tracks such
cases under a contract with the federal government, reports that it is handling
the cases of more than 200 foreign children who were brought to the United
States by one parent without the approval of the other.

The specifics of Elian's case are much less common, if not unique. His mother
perished on the journey to the United States, and custody is being sought by the
Miami relatives of his father.

Q. How is Elian's case being treated differently than other cases involving
foreign children brought to the United States by one parent without the approval
of the other?

A. First, the case is not a custody battle because that implies a competition
between two equal parties. Under international law, the rights of Elian's father
take precedence over those of the boy's U.S. relatives.

What sets the handling of Elian's case apart is the failure of federal
authorities to act on their rulings. After U.S. officials established the
identity and desires of Juan Miguel Gonzalez, they were entitled to act
immediately to return the boy to his father.

But immigration authorities, acting on instructions from senior Clinton
administration officials, balked. Fearing an outcry, civil unrest or a backlash
at the polls in November, the federal government invited Elian's Cuban-American
relatives to challenge its own ruling in court. An appeals court is scheduled to
rule in early May.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              April 3, 2000 Monday

LAWYERS ATTACK ELIAN'S FATHER AS UNFIT PARENT;
WHITE HOUSE CALLS CHARGES MADE ON TV SHOWS BASELESS

BYLINE: Marika Lynch, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A day after the Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez invited the boy's father to
visit them, three of the family's attorneys went on national television shows
Sunday and suggested Juan Miguel Gonzalez was an unfit parent.

The White House called the allegations baseless, and an attorney for Juan Miguel
Gonzalez characterized the attacks as a sign of the Miami relatives' desperation
to keep the boy.

Attorneys for the boy's Miami relatives said that if federal immigration
authorities demand it, the child will be turned over peacefully.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has threatened to revoke Elian's
permission to stay in the United States by 9 a.m. Tuesday - hastening his return
to Cuba - if his Miami relatives don't agree to turn over the boy within three
days of losing all their court appeals.

Tense negotiations between immigration officials and the boy's Miami
representatives are expected to resume at 10 a.m. today.

While the INS has the legal right to remove the boy from his Miami relatives at
any time, immigration officials say they are willing to take no immediate action
as long as the family agrees to hand over Elian should they lose their appeals.

A member of the family's Miami legal team told ABC's "This Week" that they would
deliver Elian to immigration officials if the government demands the boy.

"If INS shows up tomorrow morning and says, 'We are here to take Elian with us,'
then we will, of course, comply," lawyer Manny Diaz told ABC.

Miami relatives want a family court to hear the case and insist that Elian's
father has been abusive and misleading in recent telephone conversations - at
one time telling the boy his mother was alive and waiting for him in Cuba.

Elian's mother and 10 others died on the trip across the Florida Straits. The
boy survived and was rescued while clinging to an inner tube Thanksgiving Day.

Linda Osberg-Braun, another attorney for Elian's Miami relatives, speculated
that the boy's father was under the influence of the Cuban government when he
allegedly told him that his mother was in Cuba.

Gregory Craig, Juan Miguel Gonzalez's Washington attorney, questioned why the
Miami relatives were raising these issues now. The claims of abuse are
"outrageous," he said.

Juan Miguel was "a loving father who raised this boy for six years," he
insisted.

Craig also told CNN that Elian's father is ready to travel to the United States
on a moment's notice, as long as he can take custody of the boy.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 photos: Associated Press
People who want Elian Gonzalez to remain in the United States shout at
a couple on Sunday who were distributing material in support of
sending the 6-year-old back to his father in Cuba.
Elian drives a motorized car Sunday around relatives' yard in Miami.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                       June 27, 2000 Tuesday CITY EDITION

BUSH TELLS HISPANICS HE'D SPLIT INS DUTIES

BYLINE: Ron Hutcheson, WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Texas Gov. George W. Bush told a Hispanic audience Monday that he intends to
split the Immigration and Naturalization Service into two agencies to help ease
the way for legal immigrants.

In a speech to the League of United Latin American Citizens, Bush said the
agency's dual role of enforcing immigration laws while processing legal
immigrants "sends mixed signals to the people we're trying to help."

The Republican presidential candidate also distanced himself from
anti-immigration forces by denouncing the "English-only" movement.

The nation's 32 million Hispanics are the fastest-growing segment of the
American population. They are expected to cast 5.4 percent of November's vote.
Their growing political strength, especially in mega-states California, Texas,
New York and Florida, makes them a top target for both major political parties.

Vice President Al Gore is scheduled to speak to the League of United Latin
American Citizens convention on Friday.

Bush said splitting the INS would let one agency focus on law enforcement while
the other concentrated on service to legal immigrants.

"People ought to be asking the question, 'How can I help you; what can I do to
help you fill out paperwork?' We ought to be saying loud and clear to people
that the INS is to help families and to help people understand the maze of rules
and regulations," he said.

Bush received a standing ovation.

The Gore camp criticized his proposal, as did anti-immigration groups, for
different reasons.

"We don't need to create another bureaucracy," said Doug Hattaway, a Gore
spokesman. "We can strike the right balance between law enforcement and customer
service under a streamlined INS."

"The customer here is the American public," countered Ira Mehlman, a spokesman
for American Immigration Reform. "When you start viewing immigrants as
customers, it changes the whole dynamic," he said. "We are the people who are
offering this privilege to people from other countries."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 30, 2000 Friday

CITIZENSHIP LAW CAUSING CONFUSION WITH HMONG;
VENTO, WELLSTONE PLAN MEETING IN ST. PAUL NEXT WEEK

BYLINE: Todd Nelson Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 487 words


Confusion over a new law easing the process for Hmong military veterans applying
for U.S. citizenship has prompted its primary sponsors - Rep. Bruce Vento and
Sen. Paul Wellstone - to call a meeting next week to try to clear up
misunderstandings.

The meeting of congressional staff members, Immigration and Naturalization
Service representatives, immigration lawyers and Hmong residents will take place
Wednesday5 at the State Office Building in St. Paul.

Close to 1,000 Hmong veterans have visited a St. Paul office that began
accepting the applications on Wednesday, according to volunteer interpreters
with the Minnesota chapter of the Lao Veterans of America. The association
represents Hmong soldiers secretly recruited by the CIA to fight as U.S. allies
during the Vietnam War.

But many who are applying appear to be confused over what the new law means and
who is eligible to apply for U.S. citizenship under it, said Michael Yang of the
Immigration Task Force of Minnesota.

"There's lots of miscommunication and misunderstanding out there," Yang said.
"What we're trying to do is get out better information, so people can be more
informed as to whether they want to apply. It doesn't mean anyone who is Hmong
can now apply and be citizens."

Some have mistakenly believed the legislation automatically gives them
citizenship, Yang said. Some who have applied were not eligible because they
were not refugees, and instead were here from France to visit family members.

On Thursday, 300 Hmong veterans filled out applications at the Lao Family
Community of Minnesota offices in St. Paul, said Doua Vang, a volunteer
interpreter. The day before, 500 to 600 applied, said Chong Ge Cha, another
interpreter.

Yang called on community organizations to work with government agencies and
political representatives to make sure Hmong have a better understanding of the
new law.

President Clinton signed the Hmong Naturalization Act into law last month, after
10 years of lobbying by Hmong veterans. When the communists prevailed in
Vietnam, 100,000 Hmong fled Laos, and many resettled in the United States.
Minnesota's Hmong population is estimated at 60,000.

The law waives English-language requirements and relaxes civics tests for the
veterans, as well as their spouses, widows and orphans. Allowing aging Hmong to
take the U.S. citizenship test with an interpreter's help removes a huge
obstacle for those who lacked much formal schooling and whose culture has only
recently had a written language.

The act covers only current U.S. residents who "served with a special guerrilla
unit, or irregular forces, operating from a base in Laos in support of the
United State military" between 1961 and 1978. The bill caps at 45,000 the number
of Hmong who can become U.S. citizens this way. How many will apply is unknown.

Todd Nelson can be reached at tanelson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5575.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See microfilm for chart: Hmong veterans seek citizenship under new law.

GRAPHIC: 2 photos: John Doman, Pioneer Press
1)People crowd around an information table at the Lao Family Community
Center in St. Paul on Thursday to receive help obtaining U.S.
citizenship for Hmong and Lao veterans of the Vietnam War era.
2)Xai Teng gets assistance from volunteer Doua Vang on Thursday. Teng,
71 of St. Paul fought in the war and has a North Vietnamese bullet
still embedded in a leg from fighting in Laos in 1964.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 7, 1998 Wednesday

23 ARRESTED IN ST. PAUL IMMIGRATION OPERATION;
FEDERAL AGENTS RAID COSSETTA'S RESTAURANT

BYLINE: Wayne Wangstad, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 597 words


Agents of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and Border Patrol
arrested 23 people after swooping down on one of St. Paul's oldest and more
popular eateries - the Cossetta Italian Market & Pizzeria.

The lunch rush was over when the 30 or so agents collared 14 allegedly
undocumented workers at the restaurant and market at 211 W. Seventh St., then
nabbed nine more at a food processing site at 221 Exchange St. and a warehouse
two doors away at 195 Exchange St.

"We want to send a clear message that American jobs should go to legally
authorized workers only," Curtis Aljets, INS district director, said after the
1:30 p.m. raid.

Dean Hove, the INS' deputy district director for Minnesota, North Dakota and
South Dakota, said it is believed that most of those arrested are from Mexico,
and that most possessed fraudulent documents.

The arrests were made without incident. But Hove added that owner Dave Cossetta
"was not what we would say real cooperative" with the INS operation, which
started in October with an anonymous tip that undocumented laborers were working
for the company.

"Do we obey the law? Absolutely. Do we fill out the paperwork? Absolutely. But
we can't be the FBI, Social Security (Administration) or INS," countered
Cossetta, the fourth-generation owner of the 87-year-old establishment.

Despite the loss of employees, Cossetta said dinner Tuesday night, and service
today, would continue "as usual, with a smile."

"I'm just the pizza cook. I'm lucky to have great people working here and great
customers," he said before declaring he would not answer additional queries.

According to Hove, investigators attempted to work with Cossetta by informing
him about two weeks ago that as many as 70 of his work force of 150 were
undocumented. That list was compiled during an audit of Cossetta employees.

"We gave him a list of employees who we considered to have document problems ...
but we found it necessary to obtain a civil search warrant and entered the place
(Tuesday) and arrested the people," Hove said.

While those arrested had not been processed at the time Hove was interviewed,
the INS official said it was believed that many of the 23 were on the list of 70
that was provided to Cossetta. The list indicated people who were not authorized
to work in the United States.

Hove did not know what happened to the 47 other workers on the list.

"The employer may have dismissed them, they may have left on their own after
being notified or they may be working a different shift," he said "... I do not
know if we will go back; the investigation is continuing."

Although the interview process had not been completed, Hove expected that many
of the detainees worked at the establishment for years.

The INS raid was the first at Cossetta's and the first major sweep of its kind
in the East Metro-St. Paul area since spring, when 138 people were arrested at a
Woodbury nursery. Last year, agents in the local INS district arrested more than
1,600 illegal immigrants. If those arrested Tuesday are indeed in the country
illegally, they will undergo deportation proceedings, Hove said.

Employment applications on display in Cossetta's ask potential employees whether
they are U.S. citizens or authorized to work in the United States. If not, they
are asked to submit a work permit. The application also declares that an
employee will be fired for making false statements on the application. Under
federal law, all employees hired after Nov. 6, 1986, must present documents that
establish identity and work eligibility.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Takushi, Pioneer Press
INS agents arrested 23 undocumented employees Tuesday afternoon at
Cossetta's restaurant, food-processing site and warehouse in downtown
St. Paul. Officials said most are immigrants from Mexico.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 11, 1998 Sunday

BILL ON IMMIGRANT WORKERS DIES

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 104 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Legislation to allow nearly twice as many computer-savvy foreigners and other
high-skilled immigrants into the country next year apparently has died in
Congress. The House passed the compromise measure last month, 288-133, but Sen.
Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, had blocked a vote when in the Senate. The proposal, backed
by high-tech companies, would raise the limit of so-called H-1B visas granted
each year to skilled workers from abroad. Only 65,000 visas are now granted each
year; the bill would raise the annual cap to 115,500 for the next two years and
to 107,500 in 2001. The ceiling would return to 65,000 in 2002.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 August 28, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

BENEFITS TO ILLEGAL ALIENS HALTED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif.


Gov. Pete Wilson signed an executive order Tuesday directing all state agencies
and state-supported colleges and universities to halt benefits to illegal
aliens. The Republican governor described the order as "the first step in
implementing federal welfare reform." He said it would help "end the magic lure"
of taxpayer-financed benefits that contribute to what he described as a crisis
in illegal immigration. His office did not provide details immediately on which
services or benefits may be cut off, but Wilson said the order would not affect
emergency medical services.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 9, 1996 Saturday

MAN INDICTED IN BID TO SMUGGLE FALSE IDS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE


A grand jury has indicted a south-side man for an attempt to smuggle thousands
of false identification documents from Mexico for sale to illegal aliens, a
federal prosecutor said Friday.

Frederico Lopez, 25, was charged with conspiracy to smuggle false documents and
two counts of attempting to smuggle them, U.S. Attorney Thomas Schneider said.

"We're talking about big business, illegal big business, the smuggling of
illegal aliens into this country, the employment of illegal aliens and other
criminal conduct that surrounds the activities of illegal aliens," Schneider
said.

The investigation began in April when a Louisville, Ky., customs inspector
intercepted a package mailed from Mexico City to the Lopez home, customs
official Gary Peterson said.

The package contained about 6,000 false Social Security cards, 7,000 fake
resident-alien cards, and materials for 550 imitation Illinois driver licenses,
Schneider said.

Employers would have difficulty spotting the documents as phony, Schneider said.

"I, as a layperson, wouldn't be able to tell the difference," Schneider said.
"This is not only a high-quality counterfeiting operation, but you can see there
was a substantial amount of materials."

Agents are unsure how many false documents have been sold or where, but have
evidence that documents similar to the confiscated materials are circulating in
Wisconsin, Schneider said.

"As I understand, the sets can be sold on the street for up to $250 or $350," he
said.

Investigators also discovered 12 kilograms of cocaine at the Lopez home when he
was arrested, Schneider said.

Lopez was held without bail and could face trial Jan. 13, Schneider said.

Another, unidentified suspect was in custody, he said.

The investigation involved the U.S. Justice Department, customs and drug agents.
The source of the documents and Lopez's role in the operation remain under
study, officials said.

Previous investigations turned up isolated cases of false identification,
Schneider said. One case involved several hundred documents printed in
Milwaukee, he said without providing details.

The Justice Department has indicted many illegal aliens over the last 12 months
in its eastern Wisconsin district, Schneider said.

In August, the owner of a Mexican restaurant in Fond du Lac admitted employing
illegal aliens.

Seventy-six illegal aliens were rounded up at a Green Bay food processing plant
a week later. Many were deported.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 24, 1997 Sunday

RIO GRANDE BORDER PATROL BEEFED UP;
U.S. AGENTS WANT TO STEM THE FLOW OF ILLEGAL CROSSINGS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS


Focusing his binoculars across the Rio Grande, Border Patrol agent Fernando
Quiroga spots three men, stripped down to their underwear, wading into the
shallow river.

"I guarantee you that those guys are bandits," Quiroga says, his gaze fixed on
the men edging away from a dusty river bank in Matamoros, Mexico.

Smoking cigarettes calmly as the river gently laps at their waists, the men spot
Quiroga's vehicle and its familiar emblem. They peer back, concerned but
seemingly unworried, over the short distance separating predator and prey.

They watch Quiroga watching them. Everyone waits. Stalemate.

Later, Quiroga drives along the river, stopping when he sees a man and a woman
with bundles of dry clothing in hand on the opposite side.

They watch Quiroga watching them. Everyone waits. Stalemate.

Then the couple begins walking along the river bank, away from the Border Patrol
agent. On the U.S. side of the river, Quiroga shadows them. Eventually they peel
off their clothes and slip into the water, watching and waiting from the
coolness of the river.

So goes the daily game between the U.S. Border Patrol and illegal immigrants,
where outnumbered agents cannot keep up with increasing illegal crossings.

The government hopes to change that with Monday's kickoff of Operation Rio
Grande, a crackdown funneling hundreds of agents and new equipment to the area.

"We're not going to be so bold as to say we're going to stop illegal immigration
completely," said Ernesto Castillo, chief of the Border Patrol's Brownsville
office. "But we're going to curtail a lot of entries and we're going to make it
harder to cross."

The Mexican government has opposed the border crackdowns since they began
elsewhere three years ago and said in an official statement last week the latest
venture "puts a serious cloud over the commitment (of both countries) ... to
jointly promote a more human vision of the border."

Operation Rio Grande is the latest phase of a beefed-up INS enforcement strategy
started in El Paso and San Diego.

As illegal entries have decreased in those cities, they have soared locally.

The McAllen Border Patrol sector, which spans 282 miles of river from
Brownsville west along the Texas border, now is the third-busiest crossing point
for illegal immigrants, behind San Diego and Tucson, Ariz.

This year apprehensions increased 22 percent in the sector, McAllen Border
Patrol Chief Joe Garza said. In the past 10 months, 220,000 illegal immigrants
have been apprehended, and 75 percent of the apprehensions occurred in the
Brownsville area.

Operation Rio Grande brings about 230 more agents to the McAllen sector to
battle the rising numbers. By the end of September, staffing will increase from
538 agents to more than 750, with about 250 agents stationed in Brownsville.

Starting Monday, 60 agents will be deployed to downtown Brownsville and a 2
1/2-mile stretch of river south of downtown for around-the-clock patrols,
Castillo said.

Half the agents will be stationed directly on the Rio Grande in Border Patrol
vehicles spread one-eighth of a mile apart. The rest will patrol the streets in
vehicles, on bicycles and on foot.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 23, 1997 Sunday

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS GET WELFARE

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More than $1 billion of 1995 welfare payments and food stamps went to illegal
immigrant families because some of their children are U.S. citizens, according
to a new government report. Although a child born in the United States to an
illegal immigrant automatically becomes a citizen, "when such a child receives
assistance, the aid also helps support the child's family, raising concerns
about the use of public assistance by those illegally in the United States,"
said congressional auditors in the Nov. 19 General Accounting Office report.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              March 8, 1998 Sunday

ACCIDENT SENDS ILLEGALS FLEEING

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 87 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


A truck carrying 60 illegal immigrants overturned on a mountain road Saturday,
killing one and sending dozens more fleeing into the desert. Ten people were
hurt in the wreck and three of those fleeing were injured when they fell into an
old mine shaft. Authorities said they had not determined how the accident
happened east of Phoenix. The 60 adults were riding on the partially enclosed
back of a flatbed truck, said Dave Trombi of the Maricopa County sheriff's
office. Most who fled were found hiding in a cave.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 15, 1998 Wednesday

INQUIRY CLEARS BORDER PATROL

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 83 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A two-year inspector general investigation cleared the Border Patrol of
overstating the effectiveness of a high-profile operation to curb illegal
immigration along the busiest section of the U.S.-Mexican border. In a 346-page
report released Tuesday, Justice Department inspector general Michael Bromwich
flatly rejected allegations that the Border Patrol doctored data for Operation
Gatekeeper along the California-Mexico border, exaggerated successes or limited
agent efforts to catch aliens.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 3, 1999 Wednesday

ALIEN AMNESTY PLAN OPPOSED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 79 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A congressman accused the Clinton administration of planning to grant amnesty to
thousands of illegal immigrants without congressional approval. "Do not throw
out 30 years of legal precedent for political gain." Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas,
said Tuesday. Smith expressed objections to a plan that would grant illegal
immigrants from Central America eligibility for amnesty under a blanket
"presumption of hardship," instead of requiring each immigrant to prove
hardship.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          February 16, 2000 Wednesday

CANADIAN TERROR SUSPECT FREED

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, VT.


Lucia Garofalo, a Canadian woman who federal investigators initially linked to a
terrorism plot involving smuggled explosives and illegal aliens, was freed from
a Vermont jail Tuesday after prosecutors announced that she had not knowingly
aided any planned violence. Garofalo, 35, pleaded guilty to two immigration
charges stemming from her role in running Algerian nationals illegally across
the border from Canada last December. Federal prosecutors said Garofalo had
cooperated with FBI investigators and should be allowed to return to Canada
until her sentencing on May 8.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 6, 2000 Sunday

ILLEGAL MIGRANCY IS CATCH-22 FOR BOTH SIDES;
ECONOMY IN U.S. THRIVING ON ILLEGAL MEXICAN LABOR

BYLINE: MORRIS THOMPSON, Knight Ridder Foreign Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, ARIZ.


Until recently, little more than a tattered wire fence separated Agua Prieta,
Mexico, from Douglas, Ariz. Today, five miles of sheet-metal wall and towering
wrought-iron curtain, bristling in places with floodlights and surveillance
cameras, line the U.S. side of the border.

Many Americans say the bigger fence makes Mexico a better neighbor. But on both
sides of the border, critics say it's folly to try to keep Mexicans away from
low-wage U.S. jobs that Americans won't do. Nearly everyone agrees, however,
that the Border Patrol's crackdown is forcing illegal immigrants into dangerous
- and sometimes deadly - desert treks in their attempts to get around America's
new fences.

For example, smugglers dropped off Roberto Arturo Olvera Morales, 38, and his
wife in the desert west of Agua Prieta in July with instructions to walk north
across the desert to a truck awaiting them on the U.S. side. In his second day
without water, Olvera died of a heart attack, the 10th illegal immigrant to die
around Douglas this year.

Nevertheless, Douglas-Agua Prieta has become the most popular illegal crossing
point on the 1,933-mile U.S.-Mexican border. It owes that dubious honor to the
Border Patrol's largely effective crackdowns at traditional crossings such as
Tijuana-San Diego and Matamoros-Brownsville. The effect was to herd hundreds of
thousands of prospective illegals to smaller, less protected border-straddling
cities, led by Douglas (pop. 18,000) and Agua Prieta (pop. 100,000).

The two towns, big enough to get lost in, well served by public highways and
transportation, were overwhelmed by the traffic - and are thriving on it.

The numbers are staggering. In Cochise County, which has legal crossing points
at Douglas and Naco, Border Patrol agents caught, and generally deported within
an hour, an average of about 49,000 undocumented aliens a month in January,
February and March.

"As they move agents on Douglas, the (migrants) move westward, into the desert.
We're going to see more people dying," said Jose Matus, a Yaqui Indian elder
who's active in the Arizona Border Rights Project, a Tucson-based group that
holds weekly vigils to protest the border crackdown.

"At times, there are entire families trying to cross, with small children," said
Miguel Escobar Valdez, Mexico's consul in Douglas. "There's been a high number
of automobile accidents with drivers who are underage, because the penalties for
smuggling are less (for juveniles). People travel 15 to 20 people to a vehicle,
and sometimes someone suffocates. There are a lot of broken bones, women of 40,
50, 60 years old who fall in the desert. This is the drama of the migrants as
they cross."

"They're coming across at an invasion rate ... ," said Roger Barnett, the
leaseholder of a 22,000-acre cattle ranch outside Douglas, who earned notoriety
recently for detaining illegal migrants at gunpoint. "They should send the
military down here, or tell Mexico to stop it. It's upsetting that a big country
like the United States would let a Third World narco-dictatorship like Mexico
run the show."

Douglas Mayor Ray Borane disagrees. He calls the border control effort "a
charade that they're perpetrating on the American people. ... If they didn't let
them through, all these businesses that are hiring these people would be
paralyzed. The U.S. government is fighting our own (country's) labor force."

Borane and others want new categories of visas to let Mexicans work in the
United States and go home. Mexico's president-elect, Vicente Fox, seeks free
movement of labor across the Mexican, U.S. and Canadian borders within 10 years.
Many American conservatives, however, want still tighter immigration controls.

The flow of migrants remains high in Douglas. On July 17, the Border Patrol
spotted 1,147 people trying to cross the border. Agents detained and deported
641. They "deterred" - meaning scared off - another 414. The rest of those
spotted made it across.

No one knows how many made it undetected. A 1997 study by the U.S. and Mexican
governments put the number of Mexican-born residents of the United States at 7
million to 7.3 million, with 2.3 million to 2.4 million of them illegal
entrants. Most experts say those numbers are rising, despite the Border Patrol's
efforts.

Since 1996, the U.S. crackdown has figured in nearly 1,000 border crossing
deaths, most of them due to heat exposure and dehydration, according to the
Mexican government.

Agua Prieta's population has risen as much as two-thirds since 1995, according
to Borane's counterpart, Presidente Municipal Daniel Fierros. Then, he said, the
city had no guesthouses. Now it has more than 250. Then it had two or three
hotels; now it has 10.

There are downsides, Fierros noted: "The migrants have a certain amount of
money, and eventually they run out of it." So spending on social services is
soaring in Agua Prieta. There's even a shelter for kids deported without their
parents.

In Douglas, the Border Patrol is the fastest-growing major employer, up to about
600 agents here from 58 in 1994.

Their effectiveness was clear to Patricio Palma, 26, and his wife, Macuna
Martinez, 28, as they sat in the back of a Border Patrol vehicle here recently
after being caught trying to get into the United States illegally.

"I couldn't find good work in Mexico City," said Palma, a construction worker.
"We were living on very little," about $80 a week for their family with three
children.

Palma said they spent a year getting $600 together for the trip, then left the
children with his parents. They had planned to go to Nogales, Ariz., and on to
New York.

Asked what they were going to do now, an hour before deportation, the couple
just stared into the desert. And she, then he, began to cry.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   August 11, 1996 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

WELFARE BILL COULD HIT IMMIGRANT SCHOOLCHILDREN HARD

BYLINE: BYLINE: Rachel L. Jones, Knight-Ridder Newspapers

SECTION: EXPRESS; Pg. 6G

LENGTH: 1223 words

DATELINE: UNION CITY, N.J.


Ardiz Marquez wants to be a doctor when he grows up, the kind of doctor who ...

Turning to teacher Maria Gomez, the 10-year-old struggles to describe his future
profession. "A doctor who cuts to make people better," he explains, haltingly.

A surgeon, Gomez prompts. Ardiz's smooth round face wreaths in a triumphant
smile. Considering that he and his parents came to the United States from
Venezuela only last December, speaking no English, he's doing quite well.

This summer program at the Robert Waters Middle School is one of many across the
country that offers English tutoring for the nation's surge of immigrant
children. Statewide, the foreign-born population has exceeded 1 million for the
first time.

At the Union City Public Schools, more than 8,000 of the 9,000 students in
grades kindergarten through 12 are Latino, many of them first-generation
Americans. Nearly half of them have been in English-as-second-language classes.

As a result, the city's schools are at the front line of a wave of social change
that soon will reverberate throughout immigrant communities nationwide.

The welfare bill that President Clinton has promised to sign might dramatically
affect the lives of Ardiz and his immigrant classmates.

The bill will bar food stamps, federal disability, nutrition, job-training and
other programs for legal immigrants already in the country who are not yet
citizens, and those who arrive later. In a city as economically hard-pressed as
Union City, most of the children probably receive at least some of these
benefits now.

Illegal immigrants would lose their access to nutrition programs and emergency
medical care.

And in pending federal legislation designed to crack down on illegal
immigration, states might be allowed to charge illegal immigrants tuition for
attending public schools. Those who couldn't pay would be subject to
deportation.

Much of the effect of these bills will be felt in the country's major "gateway"
states - California, Florida, Texas, Illinois, New York and New Jersey. But
because immigrants settle across the country, from the Hmong in Minnesota to the
Arabs in Tennessee, many states would be affected.

Because schools often serve as the focal point for most services provided to
immigrant and poor children, the Union City School District offers unique
insight into how local communities will decide whether to lend a hand up or a
handout - or nothing at all - to immigrant children.

"Frankly, we don't have time to debate the issue, period," said Tom Highton,
Union City schools superintendent. "How are we supposed to decide which children
to help and which ones to turn away? The schools are really all they have."

According to 1990 Census statistics, fewer than half of all legal aliens in
Union City had completed high school. Among Hispanics, only 32 percent of males
and 28 percent of females had a high school diploma.

Of the entire immigrant population in Union City, 27.5 percent of children live
below the poverty level, and 79 percent of school children come from low-income
families.

But education may be the least of their worries, if the doom-filled scenarios
surrounding the effects of the welfare bill come true, advocates say.

Cecelia Munoz predicts that an overhaul of welfare will strangle public hospital
caseloads in most urban areas, affecting poor and minority children the most.

"It's impossible to overstate the disaster that's waiting to happen," said
Munoz, a leader of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy
organization. "It's hard to envision how the president could be so cavalier
about a bill that will be so especially hard on children."

Nery Cabello, health services director, says that while Union City schools can
provide physical exams and some basic vaccinations for immigrant children, it's
a struggle to fill all their needs.

"We can't supply dental care, or glasses, or arrange for medical treatment," she
said. "We just don't have the budget, and we can see that the problem will only
get worse."

The welfare law also will limit immigrants' access to the Women, Infants and
Children nutrition program. In Union City and surrounding towns in Hudson
County, an estimated 1,700 people apply for WIC food per month, said Rose
Yecora, an assistant WIC director.

"The challenges are absolutely enormous," said Rudy Garcia, a New Jersey state
assemblyman. "While I wouldn't go so far as to say hungry children will roam the
streets, I think there's no doubting that there will be a negative impact."

In her 25 years of teaching in Union City, Perez says it never has occurred to
her to ask students about their immigration status. In fact, because of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, it's against the law to ask
children's status, or to bar them from school because of it.

But a pending federal immigration bill, which includes a controversial provision
sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., would bar illegal immigrants from
public schools nationwide. Last week, House and Senate negotiators agreed to
soften the provision by allowing illegal immigrants to pay for their education.
The bill is to be taken up after Congress returns in September.

Officials say it's too soon to predict how welfare revision might affect the
schools, or the streets, of Union City.

But in California, officials estimate that about 1.3 million immigrants, half of
whom are children, would lose Medicaid eligibility under the new welfare
overhaul. Those currently on welfare as well as new immigrants, both legal and
illegal, would lose those benefits as soon as the bill became law. Officials
there, and in other states with large numbers of immigrants, have braced
themselves for what could be an onslaught to their social services programs.

In the end, politicians say that philanthropic, religious and charitable
organizations will be called on to replace federal subsidies.

But those whose budgets already are strained doubt it will be enough. South of
Union City in Jersey City, Brother Thomas Corey's parish office looks out onto a
basketball court, where scores of young men gather to play ball and hang out.

Corey and St. Michael's Catholic Church have a longstanding reputation for their
work with immigrant youth. A sign on the front door advertises free breakfast
and lunch. Corey works with several drug counseling and juvenile detention
facilities, and many of the children to whom he once served breakfast end up
there. He sponsors a shelter program for unescorted juvenile aliens, some of
whom have never set foot in a classroom and are traumatized by the separation
from families.

"What I could never understand is how people don't appreciate the connection
between what services we provide for young people now, and what we'll have to
provide later," Corey said. "I guess you can't fully appreciate it unless you
work with those young people."

Corey calls the welfare debate "political nonsense" that wouldn't be occurring
if it wasn't an election year. And while he pledges St. Michael's support, he
knows he may face a daunting challenge.

"I don't think anyone can predict for a certainty, but those of us in the
trenches know that it will only get worse before it gets better. But whatever
happens, we cannot abandon the least of these among us."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  September 8, 1996 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

TENS OF THOUSANDS ALLOWED TO BECOME CITIZENS WITHOUT CHECK OF CRIMINAL RECORDS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Connie Cass, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4P

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In an election-year push to grant citizenship to 1.2 million immigrants, the
Clinton administration mistakenly allowed tens of thousands to become Americans
before criminal record checks were done.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials acknowledge the errors - 30,000
alone in New York - but blame them on misrouted paperwork.

Internal documents suggest the White House was keenly interested in the
citizenship effort, including sending personal letters to the new Americans, but
was warned by INS that speeding up the naturalization process too much would be
viewed as blatantly political.

"INS warns that if we are too aggressive at removing the roadblocks to success,
we might be publicly criticized for running a pro-Democratic voter mill and even
risk having Congress stop us," cautioned one memo prepared by Vice President Al
Gore's staff for President Clinton.

Excerpts of the memo were obtained by the Associated Press from individuals
familiar with it.

INS officials insist the "Citizenship USA" initiative pushed by Gore over the
last 18 months was designed only to clear a huge backlog of applications - and
had nothing to do with the November election.

"It's caused us all kinds of undue hardship that this happens to match the
political calendar," said David Rosenberg, director of the INS program. "It's
simply not true that politics played a role in this program."

None of the agency's official documents announcing the program make any mention
of the election.

But agency documents gathered by congressional investigators and interviews
suggest at least some believed a key motive was to get the new citizens to vote
- something they'd be able to do for the first time this fall.

"As you must be aware, the INS has been told to naturalize everyone who filed
form N400 (citizenship application) prior to April 1, 1996, in time for them to
register to vote in the November election," Don Riding, the INS official in
charge of the Fresno, Calif., office, wrote this spring.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  September 8, 1996 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

LAOTIAN DISCOVERS FREEDOM IN U.S.;
MAN WAS IMPRISONED IN FIGHT TO IMMIGRATE

BYLINE: BYLINE: Yee Chang, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: Eau Claire, Wis.


For 16 years, Xai Houa Yang toiled in the squalid refugee camps of Thailand.

The former Laotian soldier and teacher who fought for the United States during
the Vietnam War had one dream: to start a new life far from the threat of
persecution and death.

But in 1991, the United States, Thailand and the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees backed a repatriation program that would send him back
to the country where he had once fled political persecution.

Adamant about not returning, Yang and other refugee camp leaders petitioned to
remain in Thailand and seek resettlement in the United States.

The response was arrest and imprisonment in a Thai prison for 10 months. He was
not allowed to see relatives; his cellmates included drug traffickers, arms
dealers, murderers and other hard-core criminals.

Hmong relatives in the United States, along with members of Congress concerned
about the fate of the approximately 6,000 refugees who remained, began lobbying
for a last chance to resettle eligible political refugees - those who can prove
a well-founded threat of persecution if they return to their homeland. Of the
fewer than 3,000 refugees still left, all will either be repatriated or
immigrate to the United States by year's end.

On Friday night, Yang, his wife, and their six children stepped off an airplane
at the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport. The family was greeted by a crowd of
relatives and human rights activists.

An ordeal that started when Yang escaped from Laos in 1981 and became a refugee
had seemingly come to an end.

"I was very angry because I could not understand what crime I was charged with.
Our position was that we did not want to be sent back to Laos," Yang said Friday
night.

While in prison, Yang and the others were afraid the Thai officials were going
to trick them and offer to turn them over to communist Laotian officials, who
would then seek retribution.

"If was sent to Laos, I would find a way to join the resistance in the jungle
the first chance I get. I just can't see myself living under the communists,"
Yang said.

Yang said Thai officials repeatedly tried to persuade them to return to Laos.
Meanwhile, relatives at the refugee camps were told the men had voluntarily
agreed to repatriate.

"We didn't believe what the Thais told us," said Yang's wife Youa Xiong. "I knew
my husband would rather die than return to Laos."

The petition drive launched by Yang and others at the refugee camps helped
prompt Congress to begin a re-screening process for eligible U.S.-bound
refugees.

Of the more than 1.5 million Southeast Asian refugees from the Vietnam War,
"Yang and the five other prisoners played a pivotal role in this last wave of
Hmong now arriving in the U.S., and they paid a price for it," said Pobzeb Vang,
the director of the Lao Human Rights Council in Eau Claire. Beginning with the
first group of refugees to arrive in the United States on July 17, more than
1,400 others have since joined relatives in Minnesota, Wisconsin, California and
other states.

Yang, who in his present marriage has six children from 10 to 18 years old, will
spend a month with a sister and brother-in-law in Eau Claire, then plans to
resettle in St. Paul. His ex-wife and 22-year old son are arriving separately
today

Blia Thai Xiong arrived in California on Friday. A third prisoner, Fai Yee
Xiong, also came to California in late July.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  September 9, 1996 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

CONFERENCES TO FOCUS ON NEW IMMIGRANTS;
ONE SPONSOR WILL BE U, THE OTHER SOUTHWEST STATE

BYLINE: BYLINE: Lee Egerstrom, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 402 words


With immigration becoming a divisive political issue in some parts of the United
States while changing the social fabric of rural Minnesota, two Minnesota
institutions are planning conferences this fall to study new immigrants.

The University of Minnesota's Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs has announced
that it will hold a two-day conference, Sept. 29-30, on "The New Immigrants."

Among the featured speakers will be Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Cal.; Commissioner
Doris Meissner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service; Leif
Pagrotsky, principal adviser to the prime minister of Sweden; and New York Mayor
Rudolph Guiliani.

Information and reservations can be made by calling the Humphrey Institute,
625-2055.

Looking closer to home, Southwest State University at Marshall will host a
seminar for community leaders and academics on Oct. 18 to explore the impact of
new immigration on Southwest Minnesota, Northwest Iowa and neighboring states.

The conference, "To Call It Home," is keyed to new immigrants and the food
processing industry that provides jobs for many of them. It is sponsored by
several foundations, the cities of Marshall, Worthington, Madelia and St. James,
and by several southwestern Minnesota county governments.

Simultaneous with the conference, Crossings Press at Marshall and Lyons, Colo.,
will release a new book, "To Call It Home: The new immigrants of Southwestern
Minnesota." It is written by Southwest State historian Joseph Amato; Arizona
State University doctoral candidate John Radzilowski; University of Indiana
doctoral candidate Anthony Amato; Donata DeBruyckere, associate of the
Rural/Regional Studies Department of Southwest State; and John Myer, city
manager at Canby, Minn.

Two years ago, Joseph Amato and Myer wrote "The Decline of Rural Minnesota," a
book by Crossings Press that examined demographic trends that were causing rural
communities to lose their population. But a new wave of immigration, which had
not been anticipated, was just starting in the 1990s that is quickly changing
the ethnic character of many rural towns.

Amato said some communities in Southwest Minnesota, which started out as
immigrant centers 100 years ago, now have new minority populations ranging from
3 to 4 percent on up to 25 percent. This raises questions about the best ways to
provide local services and operate educational programs, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                September 11, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

SWEDISH ROYALS MAKE ELLIS ISLAND VISIT

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 134 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Sweden's royal couple arrived Tuesday in New York to visit the place that has
funneled immigrants from their country into U.S. timberlands and farm country
for 150 years.

The trip by Sweden's King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia will take them to New
York's Ellis Island, where immigrants arrived and were processed, and to
Minnesota and Illinois where many Swedes settled.

The immigration that began in 1846 and lasted into the 1920s brought 1.2 million
people to the United States, mostly for economic reasons. Some also initially
fled the Lutheran state for religious reasons.

Today, the king is scheduled to attend a business forum, meet with U.N.
General-Secretary Boutros Boutros Ghali and attend a banquet before heading
Thursday to Minnesota for more 150-year jubilee festivities.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                September 12, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

6 TIME PERIODS DEFINE SWEDISH IMMIGRATION;
MINNESOTA WAS POISED TO GET LARGEST NUMBER

BYLINE: BYLINE: David Hawley, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 798 words


For the better part of a century, beginning in 1845 and ending in the late
1920s, more than 1.25 million Swedes left their Scandinavian homeland for an
uncertain future in the New World.

More of these immigrants settled in Minnesota than in any other state - though
the reasons for the incoming migration had more to do with timing than with any
inherent attractiveness of the Upper Midwest. When the first wave of Swedes
arrived, Minnesota Territory had a population of about 6,000 and was primed for
rapid settlement.

The Swedes, one of several ethnic groups that flooded the state, were fleeing
difficult times: famine brought on by years of drought, inheritance laws that
had fractured family farms, military conscription and some odious entanglements
between church and state.

Historian John Rice, a University of Minnesota geography professor, divides the
Swedish invasion into six periods:

*The Pioneer Period, 1845-54: Only about 14,500 Swedes crossed the Atlantic
during this decade, and many of them settled in Illinois. The first sizable
group arrived in Minnesota in 1851 and settled in the Chisago Lake-Center
City-Lindstrom area. They were lured by glowing descriptions from Erik Norberg,
who had journeyed from Moline, Ill., to the St. Croix Valley the previous year.

By 1854, the migration of Swedes to Minnesota increased when land shortages in
western Illinois made it less attractive to new arrivals. A key player was Hans
Mattson, who arrived in 1853 and would eventually head the state board of
immigration in the 1870s.

*Expansion From the Core, 1854-63: Swedish immigration declined significantly
because of financial panics, the Civil War and American Indian disputes.
Nevertheless, new settlements sprang up near Cannon Falls, Waconia, Bernadotte
and Cambridge.

Laws that allowed individuals to stake claims on government land before it was
offered for sale - which amounted to a policy of "farm now, pay later" -
prompted Swedish settlers to travel west to Litchfield in Meeker County and to
areas in Kandiyohi County. The lumber industry also attracted Swedes to the St.
Croix River valley, then up the Snake River to Kanabec County.

*Flight From Famine, 1863-77: During this period, 135,000 Swedes left their
famine-plagued homes for the United States. Millions of acres were available in
Minnesota under the Homestead Act of 1862 and millions more became available as
part of railroad expansions in the state.

As railroads plunged into the prairies, Swedish communities sprang up at
Sveadahl in Watonwan County, Comfrey in Brown County, Dunnell in Martin County,
Louriston in Chippewa County, Balaton in Lyon County and Worthington in Nobles
County.

The main thrust of settlement, however, was in central and north-central
Minnesota, where the prairies bordered the forests. Mattson, who simultaneously
served as a railroad land agent and a state immigration official, lured
thousands of Swedes to Minnesota. He later became editor of the Minnesota Stats
Tidning (the State Times) and used the newspaper to advertise Minnesota as a
haven for Swedes.

*Mass Emigration, 1880-93: After an immigration slump in the 1870s, an
agricultural crisis in Sweden prompted a third wave that quickly turned into a
flood. During this period, 475,000 Swedes entered the United States, many of
them single adults instead of families. By the 1890s, the typical Swedish
immigrant was a city-dweller, not a farmer.

This period placed the heaviest Swedish stamp on the North Star State; by 1890,
Minnesota's Swedish population was 60,000, the largest of any state in the
nation. Nearly half of them lived in Minneapolis and St. Paul.

Young Swedish men also became the first workers in the Soudan Mine near Tower
and on the Duluth and Iron Range Railroad. By the early 1890s, Swedes were
working on the newly opened mines of the giant Mesabi Range, though they quickly
moved into the mining industry hierarchy or took skilled jobs in Iron Range
cities.

*The Fourth Wave, 1900-13: By 1905, Minnesota's Swedes were more urban than
rural. About 280,000 Swedes arrived during this period, totaling 7.5 percent of
the population of the Twin Cities. Swede Hollow in St. Paul and the Seven
Corners neighborhood of South Minneapolis became Swedish enclaves.

*End of an Era, 1920-30: After a lull caused by World War I, Swedish immigration
rose again. About 100,000 Swedes arrived during this period, but those coming to
Minnesota essentially replaced the losses by death of the state's Swedish-born
population. By the end of World War II, Swedish Americans were so thoroughly
integrated into American society that a new emphasis - the re-discovery and
celebration of Swedish heritage - became the central element of Minnesota's
Swedish communities.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: history immigrant statistic

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                September 25, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

TRADING UP;
REGIONAL EXPORT STATISTICS SHOOT HOLES IN THE THEORY THAT TRADE AND IMMIGRATION
ARE TO BLAME FOR THE NATION'S ECONOMIC WOES.

BYLINE: BYLINE: Lee Egerstrom, Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; The Economy; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 823 words


In 1774, two years before the colonists met in Philadelphia to declare their
independence from Great Britain, Chief Wabasha II led a trade mission from
Minnesota to Montreal, where he petitioned the French governor-general to keep
trade routes open to his Mississippi River community.

More than two centuries later, people in the Upper Midwest are still reaching
out to the bigger world for important imports and exports, say officials at the
Minnesota Trade Office in St. Paul. And those officials worry about what's going
on in Philadelphia.

A 10-part series entitled "America: Who Stole the Dream?," ended Tuesday in the
St. Paul Pioneer Press. In the series, two Philadelphia journalists, Donald
Barlett and James Steele, blamed international trade and immigration for a
decline in the quality of life for many if not most Americans.

"They raised a lot of issues that should be addressed and debated," said George
Crolick, director of the Minnesota Trade Office. "But they are off base in
making trade and immigration the object of people's anxieties about their jobs
and standard of living."

Reaction to the series has been intense, never casual. Some readers who liked
the series said the Pioneer Press should offer more in-depth looks at social and
economic issues. Critics of the series, primarily from business and academia,
pleaded that more attention be given to economics to avoid erroneous
conclusions.

Regardless of how one views the series, Crolick said it does point out that
America has many regional economies rather than one giant economy. And in
Minnesota, he said, "trade creates our jobs."

From the earliest days of our history, the trade director said, Minnesotans have
always produced far more food, forest products, minerals and manufactured goods
than can be consumed locally or regionally. As local companies grew with
trading, they expanded abroad.

At least here, the result has certainly not been a loss of jobs. Today, noted
Kathy Stone, trade office spokeswoman, Minnesota and the metropolitan Twin
Cities area have unemployment rates of around 3 percent. Labor analysts believe
2.5 percent is "virtual no unemployment," she added.

Much of the growth related to trade is connected to services, said Roger
Prestwich, education director for the Trade Office. Those jobs, using modern
communications and high technology, are not as easy to track as exports of
manufactured goods. The "Who Stole the Dream?" series pointedly steered clear of
service-related jobs such as computer programmers, trade brokers and information
services.

But even manufacturing employment, which has been in decline in parts of the
nation in recent years, is on the increase in Minnesota, noted Kevin Olsen,
economic analyst with the Minnesota Department of Trade and Economic
Development.

These products generally require higher skills than basic manufacturing, which
moved out of Minnesota decades ago. The increase in manufacturing jobs now is
closely tied to trade and companies that are successfully exporting abroad,
Olsen said.

Among the latter are medical technology manufacturers, value-added food and
forest products manufacturers, and makers of various scientific instruments and
high tech devices.

At the same time, as Crolick said, companies are "downsizing" worldwide, people
are losing jobs and benefits they thought were secure, raising questions about
America's social safety net.

This is not a new phenomenon, said Prestwich, citing the migration of textile
and clothing industry jobs. "Jobs in the United Kingdom were exported to New
England. Then they moved from New England to the Carolinas and Virginia. Now
they are being moved off-shore to emerging countries."

And while certain industrial jobs are being lost in the Carolinas, both of those
Eastern Seaboard states are in a boom period partly triggered by German
manufacturing companies that want production in North America.

Part of the reason the United States, Canada and Mexico formed the North
American Free Trade Agreement, and why nations worldwide liberalized trade rules
under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, was to help industrial
development in emerging countries, said trade director Crolick.

"One of the goals was to stifle immigration (from emerging countries), to help
people get employment at home," he said. "I think critics of trade overlook that
the economy is now America's foreign policy. Bringing people together as trade
partners beats the alternatives."

The alternatives can be pretty grim. Nations do go to war with others that
interfere with trade, not with trading partners, added Prestwich.

And this isn't new, either, say the state's trade specialists.

Liberal trade policies, Prestwich said, have evolved through U.S. presidencies
of both parties in response to global market conditions and the need to keep
creating jobs lost to technology - not to trade or immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic
Manufacturing growth (in thousands)
Chart
Minnesota manufactured exports
Minnesota manufactured exports have increased every year since 1988.
Although the largest export, industrial machinery (primarily computers), has
remained flat, other leading exports - scientific instruments, electronic
equipment and transportation equipment - have grown significantly. Since 1988,
manufacturers have supplied the world market with more than $50 billion in
Minnesota-made products. 1995 saw the largest increase yet: nearly $920
million over 1994.
Source: "Origin of Export," U.S. Commerce Department and the University of
Massachusetts at Amherst.
Photo: Joe Rossi, Pioneer Press
Trade Official George Crolick: "Bringing people together as trade partners
beats the alternatives."

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 October 2, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

EAST METRO MAY JOIN LAWSUIT OVER WELFARE;
IMMIGRANTS' BENEFITS AT ISSUE IN NEW YORK CITY COMPLAINTS

BYLINE: BYLINE: ANN BAKER, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 587 words


St. Paul and Ramsey County are bracing for a loss of about $26 million in food
stamps and other federal aid to immigrants who make their homes here legally.
But officials don't intend to take the cutbacks lying down.

"It seems inherently unfair," said Mayor Norm Coleman, who wants to sue the
federal government, as do some Ramsey County officials.

In the meantime, the federal government postponed the benefit cutoff for
immigrants from Oct. 1 to April 1, 1997.

Coleman said he thinks Congress acted unconstitutionally by voting to end food
stamps and Supplemental Security Income for immigrants who have been in the
United States less than five years.

He said, "It seems to be such a basic principle for individuals who pay taxes,
who are legally here ... people we invited into this country ... to be denied
benefits."

Coleman had shared a podium Monday at the University of Minnesota with New York
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who announced his city is suing the federal government
over the immigration clauses in the new Welfare Reform Bill.

On Tuesday, Coleman asked City Attorney Tim Marx to review the idea of St. Paul
joining New York City's suit. Ramsey County officials are equally interested.

"We're certainly going to explore it, especially because of the disproportionate
impact," said County Attorney Susan Gaertner, noting that Ramsey County has one
of the largest Hmong communities in the United States. Across the Twin Cities,
there are about 30,000 Hmong, as well as European, African, and other Asian
immigrants.

Ramsey County Commissioner Susan Haigh estimates that 7,000 immigrants in the
county will lose food stamps under the law.

That includes 3,200 elderly and disabled immigrants who will also lose
Supplemental Security Income of $531 a month. Most will probably apply for
Minnesota's general assistance, which is $203 a month.

Food stamp benefits vary widely depending on income, shelter costs and family
size. An impoverished household of eight in Ramsey County may receive anywhere
from $350 to $360 worth of food stamps in a month.

Both St. Paul and Ramsey County may also join New York in another lawsuit that
city filed a couple of weeks ago, opposing the welfare act's demand that
schools, hospitals and police notify immigration authorities when illegal
immigrants seek police help, health care or education.

"I understand the federal responsibility of who gets into the country and who
gets deported," said Coleman. "But to chill (inhibit) a crime victim coming
forward would let more criminals be on the street. I do have an argument with
infringing on our efforts to protect public health and safety."

David Zander of the Minnesota Council on Asian and Pacific Minnesotans said, "We
do see this as a huge problem among our community. In the interest of balancing
the federal deficit, (Congress) is trying to levy this on the low-income groups
instead of the high-income groups."

Shawn Fremstad of the Legal Services Advocacy Project said the Welfare Reform
Act is, in large part, an effort to shift costs from the federal to local
governments.

"The responsibility is going to fall to the local food shelf and the state's
general assistance program," he said. "I wish people like Mayors Giuliani and
Coleman had been weighing in on this issue a while back. I think there wasn't
enough public discussion. It's not just about impacts on individual people and
families, but it's about how counties and towns are going to be affected."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  October 8, 1996 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

AGENCIES TO ASK LEGISLATURE TO FUND IMMIGRATION INITIATIVES

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


For the past year, community agencies and churches that serve Hmong, Hispanics,
Russians and other immigrants in Minnesota have been encouraging them to apply
for U.S. citizenship.

Now, the agencies plan to ask the Legislature for money to boost classes
statewide for citizenship preparation, English classes and "work literacy"
classes that prepare immigrants for jobs.

They also will ask for money to open workshops in school gyms and community
centers to streamline immigration paperwork, photographs and application
information for the citizenship exam.

And they'll ask state legislators not to deny immigrants welfare, Medicaid or
other services that states can choose to deny to non-citizens under the new
federal welfare law.

"It is in the financial self-interest of the state to do this," said Jim
Anderson, a human services planner for Ramsey County and one of the leaders of
the effort.

"Here in Ramsey County we're talking about (the) loss of millions of dollars in
federal benefits for non-citizens (because of welfare reform)."

Those losses will occur in some of the poorest neighborhoods, Anderson said.

"But the benefits go far beyond the bottom line," he said. "It's very important
that those people become enfranchised and empowered in the community, that they
feel this is their long-term home."

Roughly 7,000 Minnesota immigrants are expected to become U.S. citizens this
year, up from 2,700 in 1991. It's a record, and immigration officials say the
number is likely to continue to soar.

A big reason for the boom - which also is occurring nationally - is that two
laws recently passed by Congress will create some of the most significant
changes in decades in immigrants' rights and benefits.

Under the new welfare law, for example, most legal immigrants will no longer be
eligible for food stamps or Supplemental Security Income, a cash benefit for the
elderly and disabled. Also, states were given the option to deny welfare,
Medicaid, social services and local government benefits to non-citizens.

About 30,000 immigrants are likely to be affected in Minnesota, according to
state human services officials. The state stands to lose millions of dollars in
federal funding because of the cuts. The provisions go into effect in Minnesota
next year.

Meanwhile, a new immigration law passed last week requires for the first time
that families assume greater financial responsibility for family members they
bring to the United States. And the new law cracks down hard on illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 October 16, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

CONTINUED PRENATAL CARE SOUGHT

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 93 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Civil rights groups asked a federal judge Tuesday to block California's plan to
deny prenatal care to undocumented immigrant women. U.S. District Court Judge
Mariana Pfaelzer did not set a hearing date on the request for a temporary
restraining order, said Ann Bradley, spokeswoman for the American Civil
Liberties Union of Southern California. The ACLU said the request was a response
to comments by Douglas Porter of the Medi-Cal program for the state Health
Services Department that a halt to prenatal care for undocumented immigrants is
"imminent."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 October 17, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

THE NEW IMMIGRANTS;
GROWTH IN FOOD INDUSTRY PROCESSING JOBS HAS CREATED A NEGATIVE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
FOR MANUFACTURING IN MINNESOTA, REQUIRING IMMIGRATION OF WORKERS TO FILL JOBS.
THE NEW IMMIGRANTS, IN TURN, ARE CHANGING THE SOCIAL IDENTITIES OF RURAL
MINNESOTA COMMUNITIES.

BYLINE: BYLINE: Lee Egerstrom, Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; Employment; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1072 words


The city of Worthington will be meeting with other southwestern Minnesota
communities this weekend to explore new social service needs brought on by
industrial success.

The area has such a low unemployment rate that its burgeoning growth in
unskilled food processing jobs is drawing workers from outside the state -
including many who are recent immigrants from other countries. This weekend's
conference will grapple with the problems that have resulted, from families
living in poverty on minimum-wage jobs to increasing numbers of
non-English-speaking children in local schools.

At the same time, Worthington is pitching in to find a buyer for one of its
major factories so the jobs there will not be lost.

Mayor Bob Demuth noted that his city is searching for potential buyers for the
Campbell Soup chicken processing plant, an anchor of Worthington manufacturing
since 1964, while it also works to provide necessary services to the new
industrial workers attracted to the community by Campbell and other food
processors.

"We want to do what we can to find buyers for the Campbell plant, because we've
got about 600 jobs out there," Demuth said.

The situation is similar to those faced by other small cities in the Midwest,
and particularly in Minnesota, according to U.S. Department of Labor statistics.

Manufacturing growth in Minnesota has created what can be described as "negative
unemployment" for industry. With essentially no local workers available to fill
low-wage jobs, it requires immigration from other states and countries to staff
the processing plants and factories.

The University of Missouri Extension Service reported Monday that the same thing
is happening in rural communities in that state. Several areas in Iowa and
Nebraska also have local job growth exceeding the local labor market, causing
communities to attract and in some cases recruit new immigrants.

Exploration of the phenomenon in southwestern Minnesota begins Friday at
Marshall, where area communities and counties begin a conference on the new
immigrants at Southwest State University. A second-day, localized version of the
conference will be held Saturday in Worthington.

"We're trying to learn more about what our people need to live and grow here,"
Demuth said of the conference.

Worthington finds itself astride conflicting signals and national trends,
according to data from the Minnesota Department of Trade and Economic
Development.

Minnesota factory jobs have increased 8 percent in the past five years - up 10.5
percent over the past decade - while national factory employment is down 2
percent for both time periods.

With that kind of job growth, Minnesota's smaller and rural cities that have
food processing and related industries find they need to offer big-city social
services for their new community residents.

The southwestern Minnesota work force now includes immigrants from Ethiopia,
Somalia, Kenya, Mexico and several Central American and Southeast Asian
countries.

About a quarter of Worthington's schoolchildren now are from homes where English
is at best a second language, said Joe Amato, a history professor and director
of the Center for Regional Studies at Southwest State.

Smaller towns surrounding Worthington and Marshall are experiencing similar
change, he said, causing the communities to explore what services are needed for
immigrants to assimilate the area and begin "to call it home" - the theme of the
conference.

That's the worker retention side of the coin. On the job retention side are
Worthington's efforts on behalf of the Campbell Soup plant.

Campbell informed employees in September that it wants to sell its chicken plant
at Worthington as well as those in Nebraska and Georgia. It plans to get out of
the processing business and instead buy chicken soup ingredients from new
operators.

Jerry Sandstrom, president of Worthington Area Industries development group,
said he went to Campbell to explore whether an employee stock option plan for a
joint venture involving poultry raisers and employees might take over the plant.

Sandstrom said he learned that while such a plan might work at some later stage,
"Phase one is for Campbell to find a buyer for all three plants so it can
continue to get the ingredients it needs."

Worthington's interest isn't limited to the 600 plant employees, he added. The
plant processes about 250,000 chickens a week, most of them raised by
southwestern Minnesota farmers and their employees.

Campbell's move is consistent with the trend of multinational firms doing less
manufacturing and instead specializing in product development and marketing.
Pillsbury's Green Giant vegetable unit sold its Minnesota and Wisconsin
processing plants to Seneca Foods a year ago, for instance, and now gets its
sweet corn and vegetable supplies from Seneca. Campbell announced plans to get
out of chicken processing when it bought Germany's Erasco soup company from
Pillsbury.

Teresa Morrow, spokeswoman for the Minnesota Department of Trade and Economic
Development, said food industry plants are especially important for rural
Minnesota manufacturing. Factories overall employ about 20 percent of
Minnesota's nonfarm workers, or 425,000 people, and these manufacturing plants
pay about one-third of Minnesota's corporate tax revenues - more than $141
million a year.

In medical-technology and high-technology manufacturing, factory workers earn on
average more than $33,000 a year, making them good jobs by most standards.

However, there is a marked dropoff in wages and benefits away from large urban
areas and in the food processing industry, said Southwest State's Amato. He has
organized this weekend's conferences and has written a study now published as a
book, "To Call It Home."

Many of the rural food industry jobs pay about half the state's average factory
wages, he said. Those mostly non-union jobs tend to attract new immigrants, and
many of their families live in poverty unless two or more members are working.

Some southwest Minnesota food processing plants have had up to 80 percent annual
turnover among employees. "The Campbell plant in Worthington and the Schwan's
(Sales Enterprises) operations in Marshall have been exceptions," said Amato,
citing higher pay and better benefits at those two plants. "These are the jobs
people gravitate to, or graduate to, as they stay in the area."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 charts: Pioneer Press
1) The Minnesota trend continues, Percent change, first quarter 1996 vs. first
quarter 1995
2) The growth in jobs - 1985-1994, Employment sector (percent change)
3) New immigrants respond to the jobs, Minority population estimates for
selected Southwest Minnesota cities (Worthington, Marshall, St. James,
Madelia, Mountain Lake, Tracy)
[see microfilm for details]

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 October 23, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT REJOINS FAMILY AFTER 1995 DEPORTATION

BYLINE: BYLINE: Pat Burson, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 491 words


Shari Velazquez finally got the news she'd waited almost two years to hear.

Her husband, Oscar, a Mexican immigrant who had been deported in February 1995,
finally would be coming home.

Accompanied by her father and brother-in-law, Velazquez arrived late Tuesday at
the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. His wife and children, Rico, 6,
and Nicolas, 3, and about 100 well-wishers were there wearing homemade T-shirts
and waving signs and banners to welcome him home.

"It's a happy, happy thing," Shari Velazquez, 29, Plymouth, said. "I just felt
that common sense would prevail eventually, and it did."

Oscar Velazquez, 35, arrived in the United States on a tourist visa in 1984. He
married a woman in 1986 in an illegal attempt to secure permanent residency - a
sham he later confessed to when Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
officials confronted him.

In 1989, he was told he would be deported, but it wasn't until 1991 that the INS
acted on it. In the meantime, he had wed his current wife in April 1990, and
began raising a family.

Velazquez fought the deportation in the courts, arguing that it would be
economically devastating for his family if he were forced to return to Mexico.
To complicate matters, Shari Velazquez has a medical condition that prohibited
her from accompanying him or even visiting him there.

After Velazquez' attempts to fight his deportation failed, INS officials boarded
him on a plane in February 1995 back to Mexico.

Vowing to take their fight to Washington, D.C., Shari Velazquez enlisted help
from Republican U.S. Rep. Jim Ramstad, who sponsored legislation that would
allow the Velazquezes to cite "extreme hardship" in order to be reunited. The
104th Congress passed the bill, and President Clinton signed it earlier this
month.

Afterward, INS officials in Washington allowed Velazquez to return for
humanitarian reasons, and he was on his way home. Ramstad flew to Mexico City to
accompany him.

During their 20-month separation, Oscar Velazquez stayed with a sister in
Mexico, worked with his brother, an audio visual technician, and kept in touch
with his wife by phone.

The ordeal has been a lesson in survival for the family, Shari Velazquez said,
adding that they were able to keep going with constant support from friends,
family, churches and thousands of strangers who wrote letters.

"We just stuck together like glue," she said.

She said her husband still must square away some final paperwork with the INS
here, but she hopes he can soon get back to being a full-time husband and
father, resume his waiter's job and finish his schooling in auto mechanics.

Though grateful they are reuniting, she lamented the things her husband has
missed during their time apart: the birthdays, the holidays, the little daily
occurrences in two little boys' lives.

"That's something we can't ever replace or get back," she said. "That's very
unfortunate."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Alkofer, Pioneer Press
Oscar Velazquez hugs his sons Nicolas, 3, and Rico, 6, as he is greeted at
Minneapolis-St. Paul airport by his wife, Shari, and dozens of well-wishers
Tuesday evening. Velazquez was deported to Mexico from his Plymouth home in
early 1995. U.S. Rep. Jim Ramstad, far right, helped push through extreme
hardship legislation earlier this month and flew to Mexico City on Monday to
escort Velazquez back home.

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 October 30, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

INS CHIEF DENIES RUSH TO NATURALIZE IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


No more than 1,300 immigrants may have become naturalized U.S. citizens without
FBI clearance in the last year, and even that number is "very preliminary," the
immigration chief said Tuesday. Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, said reports that as many as 50,000 may be in that
category were exaggerated and unfair. She said the INS is making a "thorough,
manual review" of each case. Republicans charge that citizenship cases were
rushed through by the INS in an election-year push to grant citizenship to 1.2
million potential Democratic voters. The FBI on Monday delivered 50,967
background files of questionable new citizens to a House subcommittee, which
will scour them for convicted felons who do not qualify for citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 30, 1996 Saturday

STATE TROOPERS RESCUE IMMIGRANTS FROM FRIGID WEATHER ALONG I-94

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; REGION; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: OSAKIS, MINN.


The windows on the broken-down van were covered with ice and frost when a state
trooper found it parked along Interstate 94 on a frigid night this week.

"I walked up and opened the door, expecting to find it empty, but all of a
sudden I saw people in it," Trooper Keith Williamson said.

Sixteen people were crammed inside the old van Monday night in western
Minnesota, some huddled under blankets on the floor where seats had been
removed. The temperature was 13 below zero.

The U.S. Border Patrol said Wednesday that the travelers were illegal immigrants
from Mexico who paid $200 each to smugglers Nov. 20 to be sneaked into the
United States at Nogales, Ariz. They then took buses to Phoenix and bought the
van.

They were headed toward Washington state when they ran into a severe ice storm
and a snowstorm in the Northwest. So they headed toward Chicago. Their journey
ended a mile west of Osakis, where Williamson found them at 10 p.m. Monday.

"They were extremely cold, shaking," he said. "I told them we'd get help right
away."

He called another trooper, and they transferred seven people into each of the
two squad cars, which were kept running and heated. The other two people waited
outside with the troopers until a tow truck arrived, then climbed inside it.

The Salvation Army put the travelers up for the night in a motel in nearby
Alexandria.

"They hadn't eaten in the last two days and were completely out of money," said
Williamson, who stopped at a grocery store to buy food and diapers for the group
of 13 adults and three young children.

Williamson said the adults shook his hand and thanked him.

Two of the children were U.S. citizens because they have an American father, who
lives in Chicago. Immigration authorities let the two children and their mother,
a Mexican national, go to Chicago and remain there pending a deportation hearing
for the mother.

The other child and adults were put on a plane to Mexico on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 25, 1996 Wednesday

CUBA REFUGEE POLICY CLARIFIED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 104 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After a negotiating session with Fidel Castro's government earlier this month,
the United States has decided to try and send more Cuban refugees back home,
U.S. officials said Tuesday. The Immigration and Naturalization Service sent out
a directive on Dec. 6, announcing the initiative. Clarifying the decision, the
State Department said that Cubans who enter the United States illegally will be
sent home, but only provided the Castro government accepts them and guarantees
they will not mistreated. Refugees who can show they are targets of political
persecution and have valid asylum claims will not be sent home.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 16, 1997 Thursday

CONTROVERSIAL REFUGEE FIGHTS DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Chip Johnson, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 767 words


Rene Hurtado, an El Salvadoran refugee who once said he had tortured, raped and
beaten opponents of his government before changing his ways and fleeing to the
United States, may soon face deportation.

Hurtado, 38, rose to prominence during the 1980s in the Twin Cities as a symbol
of the "sanctuary movement," a protest campaign against U.S. support of the
Salvadoran government. The movement, which included many church congregations
and leaders, sheltered refugees who escaped into the United States, claiming
their lives were endangered because of their criticism of the Salvadoran
leadership.

In November, six years after he appealed an earlier decision revoking his
temporary residence status, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
turned him down. The decision, citing his own words in news accounts, was based
on a law that bars immigration to people who persecute others.

Hurtado's attorney on Wednesday filed a complaint in U.S. District Court in St.
Paul in an effort to block a deportation hearing.

In court documents, attorney Ron Rosenbaum claimed that in rejecting Hurtado's
appeal to reinstate his temporary residence, the INS was retaliating against
Hurtado for his political activities.

Rosenbaum also denied that Hurtado engaged in the horrible behavior he had
described, saying translators confused what he said he did with what he saw.

"He didn't do those things, and he didn't say that he did those things in the
words that were quoted in the newspaper," Rosenbaum said. "Rene, who was unable
to speak English, spoke through interpreters who misunderstood the difference
between him taking responsibility for what he witnessed and heard about as
opposed to what he actually did personally."

Hurtado is an alias used by Gonzalo De Jesus Larin-Lara, who has lived in the
United States since 1981 and in the Twin Cities since 1982. He participated in
hunger strikes, protests and spoke publicly against U.S. policies in El Salvador
more than 150 times, at first with his face covered by a bandana to conceal his
identity, though he later abandoned that.

In their denial of Hurtado's residency request, immigration officials cited
remarks in a 1984 newspaper interview. Hurtado was quoted as saying that, in the
course of his service with the El Salvadoran Treasury Police, he'd raped women,
tortured and beaten prisoners as he was trained to by U.S. Army Green Berets.

The INS invoked a federal law that prohibits entry to any "alien who assisted in
the persecution of any person or persons on account or race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion,"
according to the agency's decision, which was issued in November 1996.

INS officials wrote "the applicant's public statements, as exemplified in five
selected newspaper accounts and contained in a press release, were sufficient to
establish that the applicant had engaged in or assisted in the persecution of
others based on their political opinions."

But Rosenbaum contends that he has affidavits on file from the interpreters
supporting his claim that Hurtado's words were misunderstood during translation.

Hurtado has been living under temporary residence status granted to him in 1987
under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which granted amnesty to
aliens who could prove they'd entered the country before January 1, 1982.

He appealed a July 1990 INS decision revoking his temporary residence status and
has waited six years for the agency to issue its decision.

That delay, he contended, is a violation of Hurtado's due process under federal
law.

Since arriving in this country, Hurtado has earned a bachelor's degree from the
University of Minnesota, fathered a child and is currently a law student at the
William Mitchell College of Law in St. Paul.

Dean Hove, the acting district director of the regional INS office, said he had
"not very often" heard of a six-year delay in issuing a finding.

If the INS case against Hurtado is upheld in federal court, he could be taken
into custody and deported by U.S. authorities or be granted voluntary departure
if a judge allowed it.

In a phone interview, Hurtado called the INS action "payback" for his political
beliefs.

"There are a lot of people that come from El Salvador, Guatemala, Chile - I mean
military people - who are living in the country and have not been subject to
such harassment as I have," Hurtado said.

"They have not denounced the U.S. complicity in human rights abuses, but I have
criticized the U.S. in the training of the Salvadoran army."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:
Rene Hurtado

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 2, 1997 Sunday

A REAL EARFUL;
WHAT CONSTITUENTS ARE TELLING THEIR LEGISLATORS:

BYLINE: Gary Dawson, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pioneer Politics; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 317 words


Sen. Sandy Pappas, DFL-St. Paul, is hearing from a lot of immigrants, mostly
Hmong refugees, fearful of losing income and medical benefits under the overhaul
of federal welfare laws.

"Some are going to lose Supplemental Security Income in August, others are going
to be moving from Medical Assistance to Minnesota Care as they transition from
welfare to work," Pappas says. The health benefits under Minnesota Care, a state
insurance program for moderate and low-income residents that charges recipients
a sliding fee, are not as comprehensive as they are under Medical Assistance.

Pappas, who is working with fellow legislators to assist immigrants losing
federal benefits, says many Hmong don't speak English well enough to qualify for
citizenship, which would make them eligible for a variety of federal benefits.

Sen. Len Price, DFL-Woodbury, couldn't be happier that the legislation lifting a
cap on education spending is moving swiftly through both houses.

"I get a lot of calls about that," Price said.

No wonder. The bill will give his financially pressed South Washington County
School District $6 million. That's a lot of moolah and lot of political points,
notes Price, a political science teacher.

Usually Rep. Matt Entenza, DFL-St. Paul, gets an earful from his constituents
complaining about their rising property taxes. But guess what issue is so hot
that even the perennial griping over property taxes is taking a back seat?

The stadium.

"It's all I hear. When the Twins sent out a letter asking their fans for
support, it started all over again," Entenza says. "'Whatever you do, don't you
dare vote for that stadium' is what they tell me. Oh well, I can thank the
Pohlad family this year for simplifying the legislative agenda."

"My only letters and calls that I have received this session are against the
stadium," adds Rep. Kevin Knight, R-Bloomington.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 25, 1997 Tuesday

CHECKS OF IMMIGRANTS ASKING CITIZENSHIP MISSED 180,000;
OFFICIALS ALSO FIND 11,000 HAD RECORDS OF FELONY ARRESTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government failed to do full background checks on as many as 180,000 of the
1 million immigrants granted citizenship last year, and nearly 11,000 of those
naturalized had felony arrest records, officials confirmed Monday.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the parent Justice
Department said they have yet to determine how many, if any, of the immigrants
not fully checked should have been denied citizenship. Their joint investigation
won't be completed for several more months.

Congressional Republicans pointed to the preliminary findings as evidence of
their contention that the Clinton administration's Citizenship USA program was
rushing to produce new citizens who were expected to vote Democratic in the 1996
election.

INS officials, while acknowledging they made errors in screening the 1.2 million
people who applied for citizenship in the 1996 fiscal year, have said repeatedly
that the ongoing program was not politically motivated.

They said Citizenship USA was created to end a backlog of cases that forced many
applicants to wait two years before their cases were processed.

So far, by matching FBI records and an INS computer database, the internal
investigation has found the names of about 66,000 new citizens who apparently
were never subjected to an FBI criminal background check, as required by law.

"The Justice Department is assuming until shown otherwise that those people were
not checked," said Justice spokeswoman Carole Florman.

INS spokesman Eric Andrus confirmed that the agency so far has been unable to
verify that those names and fingerprints were checked by the FBI, but he said
more detailed study might lower the number substantially.

In addition, in another 113,000 cases, the applicants' names were checked but
their fingerprint cards were rejected by the FBI - typically because the prints
were smudged.

In some of those cases, Andrus said, a second set of fingerprints may have been
sent to correct the problem, but INS has so far been unable to document that.

A congressional aide familiar with the issue estimated that from 8 percent to 10
percent of citizenship applicants have some type of rap sheet - record of a
misdemeanor or felony arrest, but not necessarily a conviction.

But many were still eligible for citizenship, especially before a stricter law
took effect this year. Only convictions count against an applicant, and only for
certain specified crimes.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 5, 1997 Wednesday

REFUGEES' TB RAISES HEALTH ISSUES;
SCREENINGS MAY NOT DETECT DISEASE

BYLINE: Tom Majeski, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 644 words


An influx of immigrants can bring new health problems that can go undetected in
the immigration process, a group of Minnesota researchers say.

Their warning stems from the case of Tibetan refugees who resettled in the Twin
Cities during the early 1990s. Sixteen of the 191 refugees, all of whom were
screened before emigrating, developed active cases of tuberculosis after
arriving in Minnesota.

While the discovery should prompt health care workers to be more aware of the
disease threat, it should not alarm the general public, said Dr. Linda Hedemark,
medical director for the Hennepin County Tuberculosis Control Clinic and a
senior associate physician in the pulmonary division at Hennepin County Medical
Center.

"It's not something people should be afraid of, but it is something health care
workers ought to be aware of," she said.

Hedemark said there never have been any reports of the disease spreading to the
general population, but there may have been some transmission in refugee
households, where people live under more crowded conditions.

And although the general public should not worry, "there needs to be a respect
for the disease, and health care workers need to isolate people with active
cases and treat them adequately," she said.

Under a 1990 humanitarian resettlement agreement, about 800 Tibetan refugees
have settled in Minnesota, creating the largest enclave in the United States.
Most live in Hennepin County, Hedemark said.

Health experts are concerned because about 98 percent of Tibetan refugees have
been exposed to TB. "That's quite high, even in communities where the disease is
endemic," she said. It also is much higher than exposure rates among the Hmong
and Southeast Asian immigrants who continue to settle in Minnesota, she said.

What's more, the researchers found that some of the Tibetan refugees' TB strains
resisted conventional drugs, a problem that recently has begun to also show up
among Hmong and Southeast Asian immigrants, she said.

"Health workers need to be aware of this because the treatment is different,"
she said.

Before they leave India and Nepal under a 1990 humanitarian program, the Tibetan
refugees are screened for TB by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
New Delhi, India.

Those found to be infectious are held back until medical treatment renders them
noncontagious, Hedemark said.

The first 191 refugees who arrived in Minnesota were immediately taken to a
HealthPartners clinic for physical exams and additional TB testing.

Refugees with abnormal chest X-rays or positive Mantoux skin tests were referred
to the Hennepin County Tuberculosis Control Clinic, where they underwent sputum
smears and, if necessary, treatment.

Hedemark and her colleagues at the University of Minnesota collected information
during the resettlement process and converted it into a study published in
today's edition of the Journal of the American Medical Association.

"We thought it was important to put this information together primarily so other
people would be aware of the problem and treat the disease," Hedemark said.

The fact that 16 refugees passed screenings and yet developed active cases
months after moving into the state relates more to how the disease functions
rather than weaknesses in the tests, she said.

For instance, many people exposed to the disease never develop an active case,
while others become infectious within months after exposure and some years or
decades later.

"The reason they become reactive is unknown," Hedemark said. "But we have seen
that reactivation occurs more often within five years after resettlement. It may
have something to do with stress."

Hedemark said the key is to evaluate refugees and immigrants when they first
arrive. "If they have abnormal X-rays or skin tests, they should have some
follow-up," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: HEALTH//PUBLIC HEALTH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 10, 1997 Monday

IMMIGRANT LATINO WORKERS ARE TARGETED FOR UNION ORGANIZING EFFORT IN CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 636 words

DATELINE: SANTA FE SPRINGS, CALIF.


In a large-scale attempt to recover some of the labor movement's old clout by
rebuilding its ranks, a major laborers' union is in the midst of a
million-dollar campaign to organize Southern California asbestos workers.

The behind-the-scenes unionizing is set to go public today, flexing newfound
muscle of the Laborers' International Union of North America with demonstrations
in Los Angeles.

The effort is part of a cultural shift under way in organized labor. Most of the
2,500 targeted asbestos removal workers are Latino immigrants. Many lack proper
immigration papers and fear that if they complain about poor working conditions,
employers will summon authorities.

"It's got all the ingredients of what the labor movement should be doing," said
AFL-CIO organizing director Richard Bensinger. "They are helping one of the most
exploited work forces in the country."

Rather than fight employers one at a time, the Laborers' International is taking
on the entire regional industry in a high-profile campaign unusual in "the
stodgy old building trades," said local organizing director Duane Stillwell.

The union began the drive in Los Angeles County, where they have leverage with
unionized general contractors hiring asbestos removal companies.

Stillwell said the drive heats up this week with protests in downtown Los
Angeles - complete with demonstrators clad in asbestos-proof garb.

At the same time, the union is reaching out to churches and immigrant groups,
trying to raise a critical mass of community support.

Organizers say the region's asbestos workers earn an average $8 an hour, with no
benefits, and must put in uncompensated overtime.

Their work is dangerous. Inhaling asbestos fibers can cause lung cancer or
asbestosis, a deadly lung disease with a latency period as long as 20 years.

Workers interviewed said they often are provided no gloves or new filters for
protective masks, and wash stations are improperly installed. They claim
supervisors rushing to beat deadlines have asbestos removed without hosing it
down to prevent fibers from becoming airborne.

Susan McNiel, executive director of the Southern California branch of the
Associated Builders and Contractors, said federal regulations mandate strict
rules on safe asbestos removal. She noted that her trade association does not
deal directly with workers but said dodging federal law would put contractors at
great risk of losing licenses. She expressed surprise that any would chance
that.

The Laborers' International already organized immigrant asbestos removers in New
York, where union membership jumped from 5 percent to 80 percent in six months.

In California, the campaign is expected to cost up to $1 million in its early
stages. Five full-time, national-level organizers are working with a dozen local
union professionals at the headquarters of Local 208 of the Asbestos Workers
Union.

The drive's backbone is 50 asbestos workers chosen from 250 local union
applicants. After a crash course on organizing, these rank-and-file members were
sent out to find recruits.

"They're the ones who know what the industry is like. They're aware of the
hazards. They know the lingo," said lead organizer David Johnson.

Immigrant workers move frequently, organizers say, and bad addresses are a
constant frustration. But after fruitless visits to seven homes one night,
rank-and-file organizer Luis Espejel hit pay dirt. In one apartment, he found
five asbestos workers eager to sign cards and provide a phone list of
three-dozen co-workers.

"They want to join the campaign because they're tired of being treated badly,"
said Espejel.

About 500 workers have signed on in the first six weeks of the drive, but union
officials say the membership drive and protests are just the beginning.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Hayes, Associated Press Organizer David
Johnson, third from left, speaks with asbestos workers in Santa Fe
Springs, Calif., where a major effort is under way to build a union.
"They're aware of the hazards. They know the lingo," Johnson says of
his recruits.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 30, 1997 Sunday

WORDS OF WISDOM;
WE ASKED FIVE LOCAL WOMEN WHO REPRESENT LIVING HISTORY WHAT MESSAGE THEY WOULD
PASS ALONG TO THE NEXT GENERATION.

BYLINE: Pat Burson, Staff Writer

SECTION: EXPRESS; Pg. 5G

LENGTH: 288 words


Cayita Vega came to the United States in 1945. The Puerto Rican immigrant first
lived in New York City, moving to Minnesota in 1974. She lost her father when
she was 8 and mother when she was 16; those losses made her determined to keep
her own family together. Though her husband struggled with chemical dependency
as they raised four children, Vega says: "I never broke up my family."

Vega's role in the community is as a mother figure to Caribbean and Latin
American immigrants and other newcomers to Minnesota. She has opened her home
and heart to many transplants making the adjustment to a new culture, offering
food, conversation, advice, baby-sitting and hugs and kisses. Visitors
frequently stop by her downtown St. Paul apartment, and she now has three
telephones - in the kitchen, living room and bedroom - that ring "every three of
four minutes." Sometimes, the callers are ailing, or imprisoned, or simply
seeking her prayers.

Her biggest struggle: Keeping her family together and retaining the Latin
customs and Catholic values she learned from her parents, who farmed sugar cane,
plantains and sweet potatoes in Puerto Rico. Though she had only a third-grade
education, Vega worked in factories and as a domestic so that her children could
have something better. "In Puerto Rico, I grew up at a time when young girls
weren't educated," she says. "I worked hard to pay for them to go to Catholic
schools."

Her biggest success: "Mam Vega," as she is called to those who know her, says
she measures her success by "the love that people have for me. I'm happy. I
never feel alone," she says.

Life lesson: Three things are of utmost importance, she says: "Morality, respect
for self and love of children."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Women's History Month

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Polydoroff, Pionee Press
Cayita Vega

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 12, 1997 Saturday

JAPANESE INFLUENCE IN PERU BEGAN IN 1899

BYLINE: From Pioneer Press and Cox News Service research.

SECTION: MAIN; Q[A] Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 283 words


Q. I'm wondering about Peru. There seems to be a large Asian influence there.
Could you explain this?

A. There are 100,000 Peruvians of Japanese origin, known as nikkei, living in a
Peruvian population of more than 24 million. Peru has the second-largest
Japanese community in Latin America after Brazil, which has 1 million.

Japanese immigration to Peru began in 1899 when a ship arrived carrying 790
Japanese contracted to work at a large hacienda.

Some of the immigrants who came to work on haciendas ended up owning their own
farms but most migrated to cities where they opened small businesses.

Despite prejudice and persecution during World War II, the Japanese Peruvians
have distinguished themselves as doctors, lawyers, engineers, government
officials and business people.

Peru's president, Alberto Fujimori, is himself the son of Japanese immigrants.

Q. A co-worker told me that immigrants are exempt from paying federal income tax
for the first seven years they're in this country. Is that true?

A. Definitely not true, says Anthony Burke of the Internal Revenue Service. A
resident alien living and working in the United States for a year must follow
the same income tax guidelines as citizens. A nonresident alien who lives and
works in the country for part of a year is considered to have dual status, and
some different rules apply. But any income earned in this country is still
subject to taxation.

Q. How can I get a commemorative silver dollar honoring Jackie Robinson?

A. Call the U.S. Mint's customer service number, (202) 283-2646, and ask to be
put on a mailing list for information. The gold and silver $1 coins will be
available starting July 3.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 7, 1997 Wednesday

CLINTON WINDS UP MEXICO VISIT WITH ANTI-DRUG, BORDER AGREEMENTS

BYLINE: TERENCE HUNT, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


In a show of harmony after stormy disputes, President Clinton and Mexican
President Ernesto Zedillo pledged closer cooperation Tuesday on immigration and
drug fighting. "Our histories and destinies are forever joined," Clinton said.

Clinton and Zedillo, in a lush garden of the presidential palace, signed a
declaration committing their nations for the first time to devising a joint
strategy for combating drugs. In Mexico, drug trafficking has been blamed for
the murders of more than 200 police and 25 major assassinations.

The leaders also signed an immigration document designed to manage their
2,000-mile border with new checkpoints and bridges and new efforts "to work
together on migrant trafficking, protecting the rights of migrants and removing
criminal aliens."

Clinton said the United States would enforce a new, tougher immigration law but
added: "We must balance control with common sense and compassion."

Modest in scope, the accords were designed to ease U.S.-Mexican tensions, which
had reached their worst point in years. Zedillo welcomed Clinton as "a good
friend to Mexico" and said they had stabilized relations so they are "based on
respect, friendship and reciprocal benefits."

Mexico was the opening stop on Clinton's first visit as president to Latin
America. He will travel to Costa Rica today for a summit with Central American
leaders and to Barbados on Friday for a Caribbean summit.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 11, 1997 Sunday

ACT OF DESPERATION;
CHUE TOU VANG'S SONS SAY THE THREATENED CUTOFF OF THEIR FATHER'S FEDERAL AID
LEFT HIM IN DESPAIR SO DEEP THAT THE ELDERLY LAOTIAN IMMIGRANT KILLED HIMSELF.

BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1379 words

DATELINE: MAUSTON, WIS.


On the last day of his life, Chue Tou Vang arose early in a farmhouse that his
family could no longer afford. He walked hand-in-hand with two grandsons to the
school bus stop. He fed the chickens and did other chores.

Then, around noon, the 83-year-old Laotian Hmong slipped into a cobweb-filled
barn and asphyxiated himself with baling twine. His sons blame his suicide on
the threatened loss of his $412 monthly Supplemental Security Income grants.

"I think if he didn't receive the notice from SSI, saying that they're going to
cut his income, he would never have taken his life," his son Blong Vang said.

Vang's suicide is harsh testimony to the anger, isolation and despair felt by
many elderly noncitizen immigrants who are facing - in many cases - loss of
their entire meager incomes.

Nationally, as many as 500,000 SSI recipients got the same cutoff notice that
Vang received on Feb. 10. Under last summer's new welfare law, most noncitizens
are ineligible for basic federal cash, food and medical assistance. Before the
change, the SSI program had been designed to meet the basic needs of indigent
aged, blind or disabled people with little or no Social Security protection.

Political pressure and lawsuits seeking restoration of the benefits are,
however, mounting. Congress also may delay the scheduled cuts until Sept. 30.

Under an oral agreement reached recently by budget negotiators for President
Clinton and Congress, SSI would be restored "to about 320,000 of the individuals
who stood to lose the benefits," said Rich Hensley, a Social Security
Administration spokesman in Baltimore.

"If enacted, it would allow legal noncitizens who became disabled after entering
the United States to receive SSI," he said.

SSI recipients would also requalify for Medicaid, Hensley said, though the
tentative agreement does not restore food stamps.

Nonetheless, about 180,000 able-bodied noncitizen elderly would still be lopped
off the SSI program, Hensley said. That is not acceptable to some members of
Congress, including Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., who are seeking full
restoration of the benefits.

Minnesota recently passed its own welfare program. It gives the state's poorest
residents $203 in monthly general-assistance payments, plus an additional year's
monthly supplement of $87.

That would be a steep cut in income for many SSI-dependent individuals. The
maximum monthly SSI grant is $484, Hensley said. It's less if the recipients
have other income. "Basically, you have to be pretty poor" to qualify for SSI,
he said.

Until the dust settles in the courts or in Congress, SSI-dependent families are
bracing for financial crisis. Within the 70,000-member Hmong community of
Minnesota and Wisconsin, the emotional and financial problems are acute.

It is not uncommon to hear older Hmong speak of themselves as worthless burdens,
and to talk openly about taking their own lives if they lose all their money. A
few Hmong leaders who say they used to dismiss such talk now fear that some
elderly are serious.

"If we talk suicidal threats, many years ago I'd say it's an empty threat.
Today, it's a reality," said Thai Vue, executive director of the Hmong Mutual
Assistance Association in La Crosse, Wis.

"I'm very scared about what's going to happen after August," Vue said. "A lot of
them have a lot of depression, which I think we don't realize. When adding the
benefit cuts, there's nothing left for them."

Vue is reluctant to tell his own mother-in-law that her SSI will be eliminated.

"We don't want to talk about it with her," Vue said. "We're still planning how
we're going to respond to her. We're very fearful of the reaction she'll have."

Lack of education also contributes to hopelessness among older, native Laotians.

"I think a majority of the Hmong still don't understand the problem very well,"
Vue said.

That lack of knowledge may have been a factor in Vang's case.

He was a former soldier who came to the United States 17 years ago, as a refugee
who fought under Central Intelligence Agency-sponsored forces in the Vietnam
War.

Like many older Hmong, Vang never learned English. At the time of his April 3
suicide, he also was apparently unaware that he did not need to know English to
become a U.S. citizen.

Under federal law, exemptions to the English-language requirement are given to
people 55 and older, if they have lived legally in the United States at least 15
years. Those 50 and older, if they have lived in the United States at least 20
years, are also eligible for the waiver.

Blong and Cha Vang, two sons of Vang, said they didn't know about the waiver.
But they also questioned whether their father, even through a Hmong translator,
could acquire enough of a basic understanding of American history and civics to
pass a citizenship interview and exam.

But Hmong leaders say that better education is a good way to begin erasing the
helplessness that many elderly are feeling.

"They don't know because they don't read and their children are so preoccupied
making their own living," said Vangcheng Nengchu, a counselor with the St.
Paul-based Wilder Foundation. "If you have an average family who doesn't know
much about the resources and the American system and the services offered ...
there might be a lot of frustration out there."

Lee Pao Xiong, executive director of the Council on Asian-Pacific Minnesotans,
said state approval of a $1.5 million education program would be helpful. It was
still alive in the Legislature late last week, Xiong said.

"We would educate people about the citizenship process and let them know it's
not as difficult as people think it is," Xiong said.

What drives anyone to suicide is often a complex puzzle.

But Vang's sons are convinced that their father let financial worries overtake
him. Throughout his life, before the SSI cutoff notice, they said he had a
happy-go-lucky demeanor.

Although he never learned enough English to hold down a good job for long, he
took joy in other pursuits.

He loved to hunt deer and squirrels, and he could walk faster and farther in the
woods than many of his nine children. He liked to drink beer and tell stories by
the fire. He missed his native Laos, but so did a lot of his friends who
regularly visited him. He remained youthful, and his jet-black hair never turned
gray.

After he got his SSI notice, however, Blong and Cha Vang noticed a change in
him. He ate less. He became angry that the U.S. government would end assistance
to a war veteran. He became pessimistic about the prospects of getting his U.S.
citizenship.

The sons told their father not to worry. The two sons live nine miles apart.
Their father and mother, Mai Vang, whose SSI benefits are also threatened, lived
with Blong, his wife and their two sons. Cha Vang lives with his wife and seven
children.

With the imminent loss of their father's income, Blong Vang said he decided to
sell their country house and five-acre plot, near Mauston, 200 miles southeast
of the Twin Cities. Although both brothers have full-time manufacturing jobs,
Blong Vang said he didn't think he could keep up with the $700 mortgage without
his father's income.

Deciding to sell was a tough decision. They were comfortable in the home and had
recently put money into re-siding it and building a $600 shed to house their
father's chickens.

In replaying a conversation with his father the night before he took his life,
Cha Vang said the motive became a lot clearer to him.

"The night before my dad died, he said he would not live with us. He would move
away," Cha Vang said. "He said: 'I am getting old now. How am I going to get
money for living?'

"He wasn't very happy," Cha Vang continued. "He was an American CIA soldier and
now, after all these many years, they talk about cutting his income. I tried to
tell him not to get so mad. I told him: 'You have a lot of children. We will
support you. We will pay for your living."'

"He wouldn't talk anymore," said Cha Vang. "I think the old people who can't
speak English, like my dad, all the people who come from Laos who are over 50 or
handicapped should get SSI. It's a lot harder for them to live. It's the only
income they're going to get."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos
1) Dawn Villella, Pioneer Press
Brothers Chong and Blong Vang stand in the barn where their father
committed suicide. The family, which lives near Mauston, Wis., says
the threatened loss of aid under new federal regulations drove
83-year-old Chue Tou Vang, an immigrant from Laos, to such
desperation.
2) Chue Tou Vang poses with his wife, Mai, in a family photograph.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 14, 1997 Wednesday

ALIENS DEPORTED AT RECORD PACE

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 93 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government is deporting illegal immigrants at a record pace, removing 42,426
in the first six months of fiscal 1997. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service said Tuesday that more than half of the deported immigrants - 23,290 -
had been convicted of aggravated crimes such as murder, rape or armed robbery.
Removing criminal aliens is a key agency enforcement goal, one that Clinton
administration officials have been stressing in recent months amid heightened
concern here and abroad that a tough new immigration law will result in massive
sweeps.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 20, 1997 Tuesday

LIFE LINE;
AFTER SEVERAL REPORTED SUICIDES AMONG HMONG IMMIGRANTS WORRIED ABOUT LOSING
THEIR BENEFITS IN THE COMING WELFARE OVERHAUL, THE TWIN CITIES HMONG COMMUNITY
HAS SET UP A COUNSELING HELPLINE

BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 927 words


Sia Thao, a poor widow, has no place of her own. So she moves around among her
children's homes. On some nights, she sleeps on a couch in her daughter's
Maplewood house. On others, she beds down in a son's south Minneapolis
apartment.

It could soon get worse. By August, Thao - along with 500,000 noncitizen
immigrants nationwide - may lose nearly everything as federal welfare cuts take
effect. At stake for the Laotian Hmong refugee is her $484 monthly Supplemental
Security Income (SSI) grant.

"I'm bouncing back and forth between my kids," said Thao, 54, through a
translator. "The money is gone. I'm thinking this is the end of my life. I don't
know what to do."

Such dire talk - plus several reported suicides among immigrants facing the loss
of federal cash, food and medical benefits - has prompted Ramsey County to set
up a Hmong-language telephone helpline.

The helpline's staff dispenses information, advice and kindness to callers. It
hopes to continue operating through the end of November. The line opened May 5,
after a group of Hmong-American community leaders came up with the idea.

"We're trying to prevent what happened in Wisconsin from happening here," said
Maykao Hang, project coordinator for the St. Paul Wilder Foundation's Hmong
violence prevention initiative. Hang was referring to Chue Tou Vang, an elderly
Mauston, Wis., refugee who became depressed and killed himself last month after
receiving notice from the Social Security Administration that he could lose his
benefits.

Other threats of violence or suicide also have occurred.

"One of the Hmong health educators got a call from a Hmong man whose wife's
medical assistance was cut off," Hang said. "The husband was upset and said he's
going to kill himself and kill the case manager."

Hang said the line seeks to meet three needs.

"The first is to answer questions on welfare reform," Hang said. "The second is
referral to resources in the Twin Cities. And the third is if people need to
talk to somebody about what they're going through, (someone is) there to
listen."

Especially for older people in Minnesota's 35,000-member Hmong community,
"transportation and language are the two main obstacles," Hang said. "Having a
phone line overcomes that."

For example, SSI recipients may not be aware that under the new state welfare
law, they can qualify for up to $290 a month in general-assistance payments if
they lose their federal checks. They also may not be aware of how to become a
U.S. citizen, a step that would preserve eligibility for many federal benefits.
Also, proposals are alive in Congress that could - if enacted - restore SSI,
Medicaid and food-stamp benefits to certain noncitizen immigrants such as the
Hmong.

Staying on top of it all is a time-consuming task for anyone. For those lacking
time or language skills, it's even more daunting.

Hang said the idea for a helpline emerged from a brainstorming session a month
ago with Mee Moua, a lawyer, and Chia Vang, a staff member of the Urban
Coalition in Minneapolis.

After talks with Ramsey County Commissioner Susan Haigh, the county agreed to
pick up the financial costs for the helpline, Hang said. Bilingual county
workers are allowed to work at the phone line up to eight hours a week. A
partnership was formed with Crisis Connection, a Minneapolis nonprofit agency,
where the phone is answered.

Currently, the helpline is open during the business week, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Hang said that 14 county workers staff the project. But she is seeking an
another 15 volunteers to continue the effort through November, perhaps with
extended hours of 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.

Kim Yang, a Ramsey County employee, agreed to work at the helpline after hearing
her mother Sia Thao talk despondently about the future.

Yang said her mother can't work because of severe back pain. The injury
occurred, Yang said, during the Vietnam War. Her father, who died 12 years ago,
fought as a soldier in the covert war run by the U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency, Yang said. Sia Thao helped the war effort by lugging loads of food from
the village to the troops.

"She can't sit for more than a couple of hours," Yang said of her mother. Thao
tried but failed the English-language test for U.S. citizenship. Next year, when
she turns 55, she qualifies for an exemption to the language requirements. She
can stay indefinitely with her two oldest children, Yang said, but space and
money are tight.

Yang said she, her husband and their five children live in a three-bedroom house
in Maplewood, while a brother has a small south Minneapolis apartment. The
youngest three children are in college and have no space for their mother.

Thao refused an offer of a 19th-floor apartment in a Minneapolis high-rise from
the city's public housing agency. She is afraid of heights and felt isolated
there.

Seeing her mother in anguish prompted Yang to do more than keep a constant watch
on Thao's well-being. It motivated her to spend time at the helpline, answering
calls from other older Hmong in dire straits.

"Just being there and knowing something and knowing I will be able to help them,
it makes me happy," Yang said. "I'm glad I'm doing this ... At least we're doing
something."

Helpline
The helpline at (612) 379-6397 operates from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through
Friday. The local service needs the help of Hmong-speaking volunteers. Those
interested should call 642-4059 and ask for Maykao Hang, project coordinator for
th Wilder Foundation's Hmong violence-prevention initiative.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Oden, Pioneer Press
Kim yang and her mother, Sia Thao, sit in a relative's South
Minneapolis home. Yang is involved with a Hmong-language helpline that
offers counseling to immigrants.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 22, 1997 Thursday

PHOTO;
PRISON LABOR ALLEGED;
CUBAN GETS VISA FOR TRANSPLANT

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


After four years of wrangling with U.S. authorities, a Cuban man won permission
Wednesday to travel to the United States so he could donate a kidney that may
save his daughter's life. The Immigration and Naturalization Service gave
Alberto Blanco the humanitarian visa he has sought since 1993, even though he
failed to provide the medical tests federal officials said they needed to show
that he wasn't simply trying to immigrate to the United States. Blanco's
12-year-old daughter, Greta, suffers from kidney failure and is kept alive by a
dialysis machine, which purifies her blood 11 hours a day. Doctors believe her
father is the perfect match for the organ transplant she needs.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:Associated Press
Harry Wu, who was a political prisoner in China for 19 years, holds an
automobile brake drum that he says was made in a Chinese prison.
Testifying on Wednesday before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
Wu said he had proof that U.S. companies were selling illegally
imported Chinese prison goods.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 25, 1997 Sunday

ONE CLASSROOM, MANY NATIONS;
AS THE CHILDREN OF IMMIGRANTS AND REFUGEES FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD ENTER SCHOOLS
HERE IN RISING NUMBERS, THE COST OF HELPING THEM LEARN ENGLISH IS INCREASING BY
ABOUT $1 MILLION A YEAR IN MINNEAPOLIS AND IN ST. PAUL SCHOOLS.IN ST. PAUL,
NEARLY ONE STUDENT IN FOUR IS ENROLLED IN A LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY PROGRAM.
THAT'S A TOTAL OF 9,465 STUDENTS, AND THE DISTRICT SAYS SEVERAL THOUSAND MORE
COULD USE HELP.

BYLINE: Debra O'Connor and Thomas J. Collins, Staff Writers

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2650 words


They come from places most Minnesotans would have to scramble to find on a map:
Ethiopia, Slovakia, Ukraine, Liberia, Laos.

They are speaking languages most Minnesotans have never heard of: Mende, Nuer,
Tigrinya, Tiv, Oromo, Amharic, Shon.

They are here because of a push and a pull - wars or poverty in their homelands
versus the warm Minnesota economy that compensates for bone-chilling cold.

And they are a growing challenge to Minnesota's schools.

As the children of immigrants and refugees from all over the world enter schools
here in rising numbers, the cost of helping them learn English is increasing by
about $1 million a year in Minneapolis and in St. Paul schools.

Though they were tiny 10 years ago, programs for students speaking limited
English have mushroomed in the two cities. In St. Paul, for example, nearly one
student in four is enrolled in a Limited English Proficiency (LEP) program
because he or she speaks one of the hundred or so non-English languages and
dialects present in the city's schools. That's a total of 9,465 students, and
the district says several thousand more could use help.

The demand has been growing in the suburbs as well, partly because many former
refugees are moving out of the central cities.

And yet, neither in the Twin Cities nor elsewhere in the country are there
effective measures of how well those programs have worked. District-to-district
and state-to-state, schools are inconsistent in such matters as deciding who
ought to be in a special program and when students are ready to leave.

The array of languages schools have to deal with is growing, and teacher
training has not caught up with the demand.

Consider St. Paul teacher Claudia Nelson and her 16-pupil class of non-English
speakers, including Mexicans, Russians, a Ukrainian, an Eritrean, a Kurd, a
Vietnamese and a Hmong.

Each Tuesday, she prepares a different homework packet for each of them because
of their varied skill levels.

"And when they are ready to go into another reading or math group, I have to
create another group for them," she said. "It gets real interesting."

Remedial vs. enrichment

As the numbers of kids increase, the bill is going up. In the 1991-92 school
year, Minnesota schools spent $15.8 million on programs for students with
limited English. Four years later, the number had nearly doubled to $28.6
million.

St. Paul this year supplemented the state money with more than $4 million from
its general fund, spending a total of nearly $10 million, mainly to hire 237
teachers and educational assistants.

At the same time, urban superintendents like St. Paul's Curman Gaines see
themselves blamed for low test scores that, in part, are a result of the high
proportion of students with limited English.

Gaines likens it to a track race:

"In a 440-yard race, for example, the runners are staggered to account for the
widening of the curve of the track. But in test scores locally or at the state
or national level we expect everyone to start and end at the same place."

What St. Paul spends out of its general fund is roughly equal to the cost of
maintaining all the current classrooms for the city's kindergartens, for
example.

The strain of a greater need for remedial classes at the expense of enrichment
programs last year finally caused the St. Paul school district, which has the
largest number of non-English speaking students in the state, to file a lawsuit
against the state.

"There is not enough of a tax base in St. Paul to support the needs of the
students we have here," Gaines said.

Privately, he said, state lawmakers agree. But a political reality is that
immigrants and refugees don't vote in large numbers, Gaines said. That's why the
district forced the issue with a lawsuit.

"It hasn't been politically correct to raise these issues before," he said.

The St. Paul schools officials haven't said how much money will satisfy them.
But they have indicated that the increases the Legislature has included in its
new education bill - while welcome - are not enough.

Existing state funding provides about half the money for limited-English
programs based on a class size of 40 students to one teacher. Gaines and other
local school officials had hoped the Legislature would allocate enough money to
get the student-teacher ratios down to 25 to 1.

That would have allowed St. Paul to increase its work force by 142 teachers and
educational assistants.

State officials point out that St. Paul already gets extra money for low-income
and LEP students - up to $1,200 more per student on average for that
combination.

But figures compiled by the Department of Children, Families and Learning show
that in constant dollars, state spending per pupil has dropped. In 1995 dollars,
the state provided schools with $1,329 per LEP student in the 1986-87 school
year. By the 1995-96 school year, that figure was $1,158.

The education bill passed Monday gives significantly more money to districts
with the highest concentrations of LEP students. Gov. Arne Carlson has promised
to veto the bill for other reasons, but the LEP provisions are unlikely to be
changed when a bill is finally approved.

Those districts with 11.5 percent or higher concentrations will receive $190
extra per LEP student. In 1999, the state will put the additional LEP money
together with special funding for students who are from low-income families and
those who are low achievers for a Basic Skills Revenue block grant. That means
districts won't be required to spend the extra LEP money on LEP programs.

And educators say that's still not enough to hire the staff to provide the kinds
of intensive English training needed by immigrants and refugees who, more often
than not, do not have even the most rudimentary English skills.

Homecroft Elementary School teacher Nelson and others say the students do not
get enough individual attention and therefore flounder.

Nelson recalled one school year when every one of her students was on a
different page in the math and reading workbooks. All day she would race from
one to the other.

Even this year, she has pupils preparing to enter the fourth grade that are not
even ready for first grade.

"Even native-born speakers are coming to school with less language skills," she
said. "Some of the learning experience is totally foreign to these kids, and the
teacher has to stop and fill them in."

Moving to the suburbs

A few years ago, the language issue was largely confined to St. Paul and
Minneapolis. But now, browsing through a grocery store in Apple Valley, a
shopper can hear flourishes of Arabic, Hmong, Lao, Spanish, Chinese and Russian.

Economic opportunities in outstate or out-of-state cities like Willmar and Eau
Claire also attract immigrant families willing to start at the bottom and work
hard.

Compared to the size of St. Paul's LEP programs, the 400 students in the
Burnsville-Eagan-Savage district seem few. But the number has doubled in the
past five years and become more diverse as well.

"When I was hired eight years ago, the majority were Southeast Asian," said Mary
Grzesiak, who teaches LEP in two Burnsville elementary schools.

"Now we really have a wide variety; a growing number of Russian, we have
Hispanic, we have Middle Eastern children and African. We have them from
virtually every continent except Australia and Antarctica."

Part of the surge to the suburbs is from secondary migration - people who
already live in the United States and move to Burnsville.

"We have families moving from Minneapolis and St. Paul. They want to buy a
house, get away from the gangs, get to safer environment, that's what they say,"
she said. "I would expect a continued growth." For the past couple of years, our
kindergarten class has been 5 percent LEP, which is kind of amazing."

Grzesiak has 49 students, 12 of whom have finished the formal LEP program and
whose progress she is monitoring. The students are in mainstream classes for all
but a half-hour a day when she tutors them in small groups. In their classes,
they're often the only LEP students.

Just how many non-English speakers immigrate to the state, where they come from,
and where they settle, is difficult to gauge, said Bounlieng Phommasouvanh, LEP
education specialist in the state Children, Families and Learning Department.

"We have had about a 10 percent increase (in non-English speakers) a year," he
said.

"Some of the factors (that contribute to immigration) are political situations
like in Bosnia, in Somalia and Southeast Asia; the former Soviet Union, South
America also. Also, we now have a big increase in the Spanish-speaking
population."

Assessing diverse districts

That diversity makes meaningful statewide assessment of how school districts are
serving non-English speakers difficult.

Here's why:

When war ravages an African nation such as Somalia, one result can be dozens or
hundreds of students showing up without warning in a district where nobody
speaks the language. The next year, it might be a conflict somewhere else in the
world that sends a new group of students into St. Paul schools.

Add to that the widely divergent skill level of foreign-born students arriving
in St. Paul.

On one end of the scale are students from strong educational backgrounds who
grew up attending good schools. But on the other end are students who may have
been born in refugee camps, whose native language has only recently been written
down, and who have never been to school.

"We are trying to require school districts that receive our funds to submit an
annual report. We ask for test scores, drop-out rate, programs they participate
in," Phommasouvanh said.

Since Minnesota school districts are not required to administer tests that have
been specially developed to measure progress of LEP students, it's no surprise
that they don't do well on conventional standardized tests.

Programs for students with limited English run a gamut but fall generally into
three areas throughout the country:

Total immersion programs like Nelson's TESOL (Teaching English to Students of
Other Languages), where pupils in kindergarten through sixth grades are
separated out to be taught in groups that learn to read, write and do arithmetic
in English, regardless of their native tongue.

Students who understand basic English and are mainstreamed into regular
classrooms, but are often pulled out to work on their English-language skills
for up to an hour a day.

Bilingual work, stemming largely from a Latino Consent Decree where pupils are
taught the same material alternately in Spanish and in English.

Homecroft Elementary School, 1845 Sheridan Ave., has something for everyone -
including an outreach worker and interpreters for non-English speaking parents.

On one spring morning, Nelson's TESOL class was going through its paces in a
routine that most students that age take for granted.

As a class, they recited the day month and year, what day would follow as well
as the number of days they had been in class during the school year. They gave a
weather report and recited typical dining offerings at the school as a pupil
pointed to pictures of cereal, toast, milk, eggs and bacon. Later she read to
them a book called, "Ketchup on Your Cornflakes."

"Would you put pickles on your pizza," she asks, trying to catch those who were
only moving their mouths.

"Nooooo!" is the cheery reply from everyone.

Later groups of students gathered around and wrote down the simple sentences she
read them, while an educational assistant worked on the alphabet with a girl who
had just arrived from Russia.

Next door, students who are part of the bilingual kindergarten classes taught by
Gloria Rosso and Anne Royalty alternate their school days by learning the same
material in Spanish and English. The teachers encourage parents reading to their
children - even in Spanish. So they send Spanish books home with their pupils.

"We use the home language to teach content and the students then are able to
transfer that to English," Rosso said.

Rosso, Nelson and other LEP program teachers acknowledge that assessing the
English skills of these students is not an exact science. Rather, it's a matter
of observation and experience. That leaves lots of room for error in moving
student out of remedial classes before they are ready or keeping them longer
than needed.

The measurement will improve next year through implementation of a national
English competency assessment used by other districts, according to Luz Maria
Serrano, administrator of St. Paul's LEP programs.

"We are establishing a three-year evaluation process that will give us a better
handle on what they are learning," she said, noting that district standardized
tests will be part of the evaluation process.

There is no question that St. Paul's immigrant students depress the
district-wide scores on the state's basic skills tests in reading and math. But
those students also have risen to the top.

In 1992, for example, three of the city's six high schools had Hmong
valedictorians. And the St. Paul school district boasts dozens of outstanding
students who started in its LEP programs.

One is Fong Thao, an Eagle Scout from Hmong Troop 150 and, at age 20, the top
student at Johnson High School. He is now a graduate of Minnesota's most
prestigious school, Carleton College, and just finished student-teaching at Como
Park High School.

Anecdotes about students like Thao abound. But there is no substantial evidence
that LEP programs are generally effective at helping non-English speakers in
public schools catch up.

Politics taints the quest for that evidence, according to "Improving Schooling
for Language-Minority Children: A Research Agenda," which was issued by the
National Research Council in January.

Across the educational spectrum, few educators have cared much about assessment,
let alone accountability. Only in the past few years has the standards movement
in the United States prompted places like Minnesota to attempt to gather even
the simplest of comparative data for mainstream students in such basic areas as
math and reading.

But the effort nationally has been spotty, highlighted by controversy and
confusion.

The criteria for labeling students still varies from state to state, and even
from district to district. Researchers have difficulty identifying the "best"
program or even gauging progress, because the population of immigrant students
changes so rapidly, and the "mix" is different in virtually every district.

Likewise, determining when students no longer need special programs varies. St.
Paul schools, for example, pass students out of LEP programs based on teacher
observation. In Burnsville-Eagan-Savage schools, students take a written test.

Another sticking point has been the practice of lumping Asian students together
as a single category. That practice downplays the language difficulties of those
from places such as Laos and Cambodia and highlights those from Chinese and
Japanese households, who have tended to do better, said Wendy Walker-Moffat in
her book, "The Other Side of the Asian-American Success Story." So Hmong
students, for example, may not qualify for special programs because their racial
category overall scores well.

And, contrary to prevailing practice, another study found that 80 percent of
Hispanic parents want their children to learn in English, rather than in the
bilingual programs.

Although the research thus far is conflicting and confusing, continued studies
are expected to help districts decide which programs work best and lead to more
effective classroom teaching. And politically, the increasing prevalence of
limited-English students in classrooms across the state means that more
attention is being drawn to the issue.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: First of three parts. See related stories; "Teachers who speak English
try to bridge language gap" Page 12A and "Homecroft School a lab for English
immersion" Page 13A in today's Metro Final. A Web site for more information
about Limited English Proficiency: The National Center for Bilingual Education
is at http:: www.ncbe.gwu.edu

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos:Dawn Villella, Pioneer Press
1. ESL students Gleb Martynov, 9, and Konstantin Kravchnko, 7,
demonstrate for Guadalupe Medina, 8, and other students what the word
"cuddle" means during their TESOL (Teaching English to Students of
Other Languages) class at Homecroft Elementary School in St. Paul. The
class, taught by Claudia Nelson, is made up of first-through
third-grade immigrants representing six languages.
2. Guadalupe Medina, 8, shows her class what the weather is like and
what they will have for school lunch that day as part of their
calendar lesson at Homecroft Elementary School in St. Paul. Many
students in Claudia Nelson's class knew very little English when they
started school.< Graphic:Pioneer Press Graphic
Rising tide of limited-English students
[See microfilm for details]

TYPE: EDUCATION//ENGLISH PROFICIENCY

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 29, 1997 Thursday

WOMAN 'WITHOUT A COUNTRY' WON'T BE DEPORTED AFTER ALL

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: LAKE GENEVA, WIS.


A woman who came to Wisconsin as an exchange student from Kenya 17 years ago but
faced deportation Thursday despite her marriage to a U.S. citizen will be
allowed to stay, her congressman announced late Wednesday.

U.S. Rep. Mark Neumann, R-Wis., said his office reached top officials of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service late Wednesday afternoon and they agreed
that the case of Erica Strohm, 33, should be reopened rather than have a
deportation order carried out Thursday as scheduled.

"I was told it is at least 99 percent that this important, productive member of
our society will be staying here in American permanently," Neumann told
reporters.

Strohm thanked Neumann for his help and also thanked friends, co-workers and
relatives for supporting her "during this tough, tough time.

"I could never have done this without your help," she said.

"I'm glad there's a positive result to this," she added as tears welled up in
her eyes. "This is my home and I want to stay here. And I'm happy to be part of
this society."

Strohm, who graduated from a Wisconsin college and lives in Burlington, lost a
long legal battle to be granted political asylum in this country. She is not a
Kenyan citizen and isn't welcome to return to that nation because she is of
Indian descent.

She married her husband, Mike, 41, four years ago and sought permanent residency
in the United States. When they recently tried to find out the status of that
request, the INS ordered her to report to its Chicago office Thursday, with 44
pounds of luggage or less, to be deported.

Neumann said the top INS officials his office contacted Wednesday "said it
doesn't look like we should make it this complicated."

The officials, he said, reasoned that, "she is married to an American citizen.
There is absolutely nothing in her folder that would lead us to believe she
should leave this country.

"So what we are going to do is we are going to reopen her case."

That means she will not be deported Thursday, and officials will have a panel of
three judges review the case later this year, Neumann said.

David Venturella, acting deputy director with the INS in Chicago, had said
Strohm violated immigration laws by staying longer than authorized after coming
here as a student, and the deportation must be carried out since appeals to the
INS and federal court had been rejected.

No one knew where the INS could send Strohm, who works as sales manager at a
financial institution and has built a home at Burlington with her husband.

Friends and relatives feared she might be sent to jail until the INS decided
where to send her.

Neumann said she still would have to report to the INS office Thursday, but "she
will not be placed under arrest nor will deportation proceedings against her
begin.

"Instead, she will be placed in 'supervisory' status and will have to
periodically report to the INS, but will be able to return to her home in
Burlington," he said. As long as she completes the necessary paperwork, it is
virtually certain she will stay in the United States, he said.

Final action in such matters typically takes six to 10 months, Neumann said.

He said the biggest breakthrough Wednesday came when he reached Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, and
Smith agreed to make a call on his behalf.

"That's really how we got through the red tape at the INS," he said.

Strohm's problems should have been over when she married a U.S. citizen, he
said.

"The bottom line is, when you're married to an American citizen you can get your
papers and stay," he said.

The Strohms filed the proper form to settle the residency matter, but apparently
a second form was never filed, and that's what triggered the deportation order,
Neumann said.

Instead of the INS reviewing the case and noting that Strohm was a productive
member of her community who deserved a chance to file the additional form,
agency officials decided "we're shipping her out because we're missing this
form," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Slosiarek, Associated Press
Erica Strohm looked over immigration papers on Tuesday as her husband,
Mike, watched at their Burlington, Wis. home.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 16, 1997 Monday

A CENTURY OF STORIES;
INFLUENCED PROFOUNDLY BY THE STATUE OF LIBERTY, THE VIETNAM WAR AND THE
PHILOSOPHY OF RUSSIAN DISSIDENT ALEXANDER SOLZHENITSYN, A DUTCH IMMIGRANT TO
MINNESOTA FINDS HIS WAY TO GREEK ORTHODOX PRIESTHOOD IN DULUTH.

BYLINE: D.J. Tice, Staff Writer

SECTION: EXPRESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1898 words

"Wake up ... wake up. We're coming to America this morning."

It was a misty March dawn in 1957. Hans Jacobse (JAKE-UB-SEE) was 6 years old
and about to complete the first long journey of his life. The cramped cabin of
the old immigrant ship swayed lazily, the way it had for 10 long days at sea.

Jacobse's father shook the boy awake. He was to get up and come out on deck to
watch for the Statue of Liberty.

"I didn't know what a 'Statue of Liberty' was," Jacobse remembers. "But when
your dad says you have to go see this thing, you go see this thing."

On deck, immigrants were gathering near the bow of the ship, peering out into a
patchy fog. Most were speaking quietly in a language Jacobse couldn't
understand. The ship carried many Hungarians - refugees from a failed uprising
the previous autumn against Communist rule.

The Jacobses were from Holland, and they, too, were refugees. They were among
the last Europeans admitted to the United States under the War Refugee Act, as a
result of hardship and dislocation during World War II.

Jacobse's father, Teunis, had been a forger for the Dutch underground resistance
against Nazi occupation. Captured by the Germans, he was imprisoned in a
concentration camp. He escaped in the final months of the war and lived off the
land for three months as a fugitive.

Jacobse's mother, Tina, and her family were driven from their home by the Nazis.
Resettled, they hid her brother from Nazi conscription in a concealed
compartment behind a wall.

Family emigration

"They'd both had enough," Jacobse says of his parents' restlessness, which
persisted and propelled them to emigrate more than a decade after the war ended.
"Europe was tired, and America held great promise."

As he shivered against the damp cold at the bow of the immigrant ship, young
Jacobse understood only that something of importance was about to happen. The
deck was crowded now with fellow passengers gazing out across the shrouded sea.

Suddenly Jacobse's father pointed and shouted: "There it is! There it is! There
it is!"

The boy saw the statue, its uplifted torch, appearing and disappearing behind
drifting wisps of fog. All around him the immigrants were pointing and talking
excitedly.

"I didn't quite understand the importance of it all," Jacobse recalls. "And most
of the people were speaking a language I didn't understand. But I could
understand excitement."

Perhaps sensing his son's confusion, Jacobse's father bent down and said,
"Remember this. Always remember this."

The son has remembered. "It's still very clear," Jacobse says of that murky
morning in New York harbor. "I'm grateful to my father for this memory. It
symbolizes for me coming to America. As an adult, I can understand what that
means and what it meant for so many other immigrants.

"There were so many millions who came over so many years. And most didn't have
the security we were offered. We had a sponsor and a place to live waiting for
us. But so many had come in such poverty, from war-torn countries. Fleeing
indescribable hardship and facing indescribable uncertainty. Yet full of hope.

"Where else but America could this happen?"

European home

It may be even more certain that Jacobse's second long journey could have
unfolded "only in America." The patriotic Dutch immigrant is today a Greek
Orthodox priest. Father Hans Jacobse is pastor at Twelve Holy Apostles Greek
Orthodox Church in Duluth.

After landing in New York back in 1957, the Jacobse family traveled direct to
Minneapolis. Parishioners from Hennepin Avenue Methodist Church, the family's
sponsor, moved them into a suburban rental home.

"And the next day," Jacobse says, "life in America began."

Yet American life began, Jacobse remembers, "in a culturally European home."
Unlike many other immigrants before and since, the Jacobses had not come to
America with a large wave of their countrymen who formed a close-knit immigrant
community within the new society. They were, to that extent, unusually isolated.

"Especially in those first years," Jacobse remembers, "there was a strong sense
that the Americans were different than we were. When my mother would get angry
with us kids, the first thing she'd say was, 'You're acting just like an
American. Now stop it!' It was selfish behavior that made her say that."

Jacobse and his siblings learned English rapidly, within months, from
neighborhood children. His father spoke English well, but his mother spoke only
Dutch. For years, Jacobse translated for his mother at stores and with
neighbors.

Impact of war

In the early 1960s, the Jacobses settled in the Twin Cities suburb of Eden
Prairie. It was there, as a fifth-grader, that Jacobse heard for the first time
about a small war in a distant place called Vietnam.

He remembers thinking: "Oh, I don't have to worry about that. That will be over
before I'm older."

Instead, Vietnam and the cultural upheaval of the 1960s would transform and
traumatize Jacobse's generation and leave the immigrant feeling more rootless
than ever.

Jacobse remembers the '60s as "a time of tremendous dislocation" for young
Americans. "Deep questions were thrust upon us before we had the resources or
experience to answer them," he says.

The social and political turmoil of the '60s had many causes. Excruciating
controversies over civil rights and Vietnam helped radicalize a huge and
restless post-war baby boom generation. Mainstream society was suddenly
confronted with fundamental doubts about American life and values that had long
been debated mainly in intellectual circles and among political radicals.

"Everything was up for grabs," the way Jacobse remembers it. Capitalism,
marriage, America's moral position in the world - all were skeptically
questioned. Traditional religious faith was widely rejected even as youth
eagerly sought transcendent truth in the drug culture and an almost cult-like
devotion to rock music.

Vietnam lay at the center of what Jacobse perceived as "moral confusion." Like
millions of young Americans, he was "afraid of going over there. But the worst
was that the nation was of two minds about whether the war was right or wrong.
Not just kids. The nations' leaders were of two minds."

Need for clarity

Looking back, Jacobse believes much of the '60s youth rebellion was a search for
some sort of "clarity" amid America's crisis of self doubt. He suspects he
personally became "horribly obnoxious," defiant at school and at home, "pressing
anyone in authority very, very hard.

"I was looking for something certain behind the authority," Jacobse says. "I
implicitly trusted in authority. I think we all do. But there has to be a
conviction behind the authority. I wasn't looking for absolute answers. I was
looking for certainty in people."

But certainty was hard to find, at least among traditional sources of authority.
Anti-war demonstrations turned violent on college campuses across the nation,
including, in 1972, the University of Minnesota, where Jacobse by then was
enrolled.

Unlike many of his peers, Jacobse says he found little solace or sense of
community in the rock music culture. There was an "inner chaos," for him, in the
playful mob hysteria of '60s rock concerts, in the way rock stars were idolized.

Jacobse believes the spiritual chaos of those years troubled many of his
contemporaries. But he suspects he "felt it deeper," partly because he was an
immigrant.

"Even when you come over as young as 6 years old, it's still an adopted
culture," he says. "I embrace this life, this culture. I'm an American. But
there's always a certain distance."

By the early 1970s, even though the Vietnam War ended, Jacobse's "distance," his
estrangement from both America's doubt-ridden traditional culture and the
chaotic counterculture produced "an acute personal crisis of the deepest
dimension."

Spiritual wandering

It was a spiritual crisis. "My main polemical sparring partners had often been
Christians at school," Jacobse remembers. "I loved to beat them down with my
arguments. But I found their certainty appealing."

In the grip of his personal crisis, Jacobse "decided I had to find God. I had to
put away the drugs, put away the moral confusion and leave my friends and my
life behind. I don't think most people have to do that. But I had to."

Despite unusual elements in his background and his urgings, Jacobse's spiritual
wandering became in many ways an archetypal '60s generation quest. He hitchhiked
to the West Coast, with no particular destination in mind, along interstate
highways crawling in those years with confused and idealistic young searchers.

One Sunday afternoon, in Berkeley, Calif., while trudging along a street looking
for a freeway entrance ramp not already overrun with fellow hitchhikers, Jacobse
experienced what he calls "a deep conversion."

"God touched me," Jacobse says. That "touch" turned the immigrant's journey onto
a new and unlikely course.

Soon Jacobse settled in with a Christian commune in Oregon. It was another
emblematic '60s "scene" with a twist. The group Jacobse joined for several years
taught traditional protestant theology and practical living. "I learned how to
work, how to support myself," Jacobse says. "And I got some rest."

By the late '70s, Jacobse was back in Minnesota, studying history at the
university. More at peace but still searching for something he couldn't define,
he first became intrigued with orthodox Christianity through the work of
Alexander Solzhenitsyn, the great Russian writer and dissident. Solzhenitsyn's
critique of the extreme secularism of modern America described for Jacobse the
moral confusion that had long troubled him.

"I asked myself, where does this man get his insight? What well is he drawing
from?" The well, Jacobse learned, was Orthodox Christianity.

Route to priesthood

Not long after that, Jacobse met Susan Oberg, a practicing Greek Orthodox. In
time they married, and in still more time, following a year at Princeton
Seminary, Jacobse decided to convert to the Orthodox faith. After jointly
managing a youth program for several years at a Minneapolis Greek Orthodox
church, the Jacobses decided that Hans should become a priest. (In Orthodox
Christianity, married men can become priests.) He was ordained in 1991.

Through his ministry in the Greek church, the Dutch immigrant has finally found
a spiritual and cultural home in America. For Jacobse, orthodoxy offers a remedy
to the severe separation of the sacred and the everyday that he believes blinds
modern America to the holiness of all of life. "Faith has to speak to the real
stuff of life," he says. "I think Orthodoxy does."

The conflicts and crises of his own '60s youth fuel Jacobse's special interest
in working with children, giving them more clarity and guidance than he thinks
his generation got.

"I try to give children courage," he says, "to be a person of integrity.
Children are starved for that today. Because ultimately they want to find
themselves, and you can't find yourself without integrity."

Asked to look back through the fog of time to find a confused child standing on
the bow of a ship, Jacobse says: "I still feel like that little boy. I remember
that day because my father told me to remember it. But I also remember because
it sparked my sense of wonder.

"The priesthood has restored that sense."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: A Century of Stories

NOTES: A Century of Stories will run periodically until the new millennium
dawns. The project will tell about the lives of 20th-century Minnesotans,
focusing on how history felt to the people who lived it. To read previous
installments in the series, go to our internet site, www.pioneerplanet.com:
archive: cent: index .htm

GRAPHIC: 5 Photos
1) Photo: Joe Rossi, Pioneer Press
Father Hans Jacobse at the altar of Twelve Holy Apostles Greek
Orthodox Church. Growing up in America as an "adopted culture," the
immigrant was deeply shaken by the social and political turmoil of the
Vietnam War era. Jacobse's emblematic '60s quest for oral and personal
"clarity" led him to the Orthodox faith and finally to the priesthood.
2) and 3) During his late 1950s boyhood (above), Jacobse had a strong
sense that "Americans were different than we were."
4) By th late '60s (right), he struggled with the "tremendous
dislocations" of his generation's rebellion.
5) Jacobse was attending the University of Minnesota in 1972 when
massive anti-war demonstrations rocked the campus.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 16, 1997 Monday

JOB-SEEKING IMMIGRANTS FACE LANGUAGE HURDLE

BYLINE: Lynda McDonnell, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; America Confronts immigration; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1305 words


It was the first week of the Functional Work English class and Eve Blackwell
drilled her 13 adult students on the difference between "I am" and "I have."
There was no time to learn the complete conjugations, though, or explore in
detail the distinction between being and ownership.

In the high-ceilinged classroom of St. Adalbert's school in St. Paul, the pace
was fast and material relentlessly pragmatic. One by one, immigrants practiced
the verbs by speaking a simple autobiography: "I am married. I am from Vietnam.
I have an apartment, seven children, an old car." When a young man from
Guatemala pantomimed a large belly, Blackwell supplied the relevant words: "'My
wife is pregnant.' Say that, 'My wife is pregnant."'

On the blackboard, Blackwell had printed a different sort of vocabulary:
supervisor, boss, manager, team leader. An actress when she isn't teaching,
Blackwell sniffs at the workaday jargon. But she teaches it, along with how to
fill out timesheets and call in sick. For the shy Hmong woman, the bewildered
Vietnamese man and expectant father from Guatemala who listened intently, those
words could be essential to finding and keeping jobs.

The 13 immigrants in Blackwell's classroom and thousands like them across
Minnesota are anxious conscripts in the war against welfare. All have children
and receive public assistance to support their families. As such, they are
targets of America's impatience with immigrants and conviction that public aid
should be temporary and work should be compulsory.

Under the new federal welfare law, legal non-citizens this summer will lose
entitlement to food stamps and medical assistance. Minnesota will replace some
of the lost benefits but will require immigrants - like all welfare recipients -
to search for work.

For immigrants with little knowledge of English, that can be especially
difficult. "It is certainly true that there are jobs," said Tom Cytron-Hyson, a
consultant who leads an alliance of groups that teach English as a second
language in St. Paul. "But even to be a janitor or clean rooms, you have to have
enough English to understand what you're told to do."

The language issue is especially important in Ramsey County, with its large
Southeast Asian population. As of September, some 13,000 of the 74,000 county
residents receiving various forms of government aid were non-citizens. Some 200
people are waiting for English classes at St. Paul's Ronald M. Hubbs Center for
Lifelong Learning.

During the next two years, Minnesota will offer special help for immigrants to
scale the language barrier. There will be nearly $25 million for adult basic
education, including English as a Second Language classes, a 47 percent increase
from the current biennium. Another $2 million will allow counties throughout the
state to offer intense, six-month language classes like that taught by
Blackwell. At present, only 11 counties offer the class.

State lawmakers also allocated $1 million for special citizenship classes that
aim to teach elderly and disabled immigrants enough language, civics and
American history to pass the citizenship test and thereby retain their federal
benefits.

"We wanted to make it possible for everybody to become self-sufficient or
qualify for federal benefits," explained Sen. Ellen Anderson, the St. Paul DFLer
who wrote the plan for citizenship classes.

"Even the most conservative lawmakers realize you can't tell someone to go find
a job if they don't have the skills to do it," Cytron-Hyson added.

Still, the state's approach is not without controversy. Many doubt that funding
will be sufficient to serve an estimated 40,000 non-citizens in Minnesota who
could become naturalized. Others doubt that six months of language classes will
be enough.

"The needs are outstripping the resources," said Barry Shaffer, supervisor of
adult basic education in the Minnesota Children, Families and Learning
Department. "We still expect in two years to go back to the Legislature and say,
'Guess what? We still have some waiting lists here."'

The scene in the room across the hall from Blackwell's class illustrates the
scope of the challenge. The eight Hmong women and one man taking the class
offered by Lao Family Community are beginners with virtually no knowledge of
English and little formal schooling. Bolstered by a color chart, textbook and
placards showing upper- and lower-case English letters, Jennifer Magnus
instructed her students in the alphabet and colors and pieces of clothing.

With her help, they wrote simple self-descriptions: "I have a blue blouse. I
have one watch. I have brown sandals." When she said "glasses," though, the
woman wearing bifocals looked confused until Magnus tapped the plastic frames.

Magnus worries that she can't give a sound foundation in six months. "These
students have to almost breeze through the grammar because they have to get on
to understanding and how to respond. They might understand how to say some
things in the past tense. But do they really know how to generate a new
sentence?"

By one estimate, it takes 1,360 hours of language training for the average
person to go from fledgling speaker to a literate person. Functional Work
English was developed because people wanted more intensive training than the six
to 12 weekly hours normally offered in ESL classes. The Functional Work English
class provides 20 hours a week for six months, about 530 hours of instruction in
all, and stresses the vocabulary and habits of the workplace. Yet because of
their intensity, the 20-hour classes have had difficulty attracting enough
students.

Given welfare's new time limits, such intensity and tight focus are probably
inevitable. "What we've been doing - get the education first and then you go to
work - is not necessarily right," said Terilyn Turner, community education
director for St. Paul Public Schools. "What everybody wants is to have them
employed. Fine, let's try a new model."

In addition to giving students a foundation in listening and speaking English,
teachers like Magnus and Blackwell must instruct them in the customs of the
American workplace. In a skit using telephones and a mock conversation, they
demonstrated why a supervisor is sympathetic when an employee calls in sick but
angry when the employee stays home to nurse a hangover or help a brother move.

"This is the beginning of a huge culture change," Blackwell explained. "Here the
person in authority could be younger than you, could be a woman. We practice
that in the classroom. But that is not comfortable."

Still, in today's tight labor market, some employers have been eager to work
with immigrants. Radisson South offers ESL classes for employees. United Parcel
Service will employ an ESL instructor to help train new employees.

U.S. Metric, a St. Paul company that rebuilds auto parts, began hiring
immigrants for entry-level jobs about five years ago. Managers were impressed by
their dedication and loyalty. Now about half of the firm's 100 employees are
Asian. The company has used bilingual supervisors, communications classes and
on-the-job training to help them succeed.

"We try to improvise. We use employees who can speak enough English who can
communicate. We try to communicate in a way we don't have to use English," said
Pao Khang, an assistant purchasing manager. Next, the firm may match each
immigrant worker with a native-born American who can help with language problems
and cultural confusion.

The approach encourages workers to keep improving language skills, Khang said.
In his two years with the company, he's watched two Vietnamese employees
progress from virtually no knowledge of English to considerable skill. "They can
understand me, and between 60 percent and 80 percent of the time, I can
understand them."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Takushi, Pioneer Press
Eve Johnson Blackwell, right, standing, adds a little humor to her
Functional Work English class offered by the Lao Family Community. The
students are, from left, Mai Vang Yang, Hong Nguyen, Lee Thor, Cuc
Truong, Yee Vang, Quang Bui and Nancy Gonzalez. Learning English has
become a matter of urgent importance for many immigrants, who are
seeing their welfare benefits cut and must seek work.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 7, 1997 Monday

THE IMMIGRANT EXPERIENCE;
ETHIOPIAN RESIDENTS DISCUSS IMPRESSIONS OF FOREIGN CULTURE

BYLINE: Biftu Rumicho, UJW Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; The Urban Journalism Workshop; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 380 words


Tesfaye Meskelo and Negassa Tiniti have faced many difficulties in coming to the
United States from Ethiopia.

Tesfaye is 27 years old and has a wife and one child. But he lives alone in
Minneapolis, working as a security guard and taking classes full-time. In the
year and a half he has lived here, he has not yet been able to bring his family
to Minneapolis.

Tesfaye said that as soon as immigrants arrive in the United States, they face
different cultures, a different climate - it never snows in Ethiopia - and very
advanced technology.

And, Tesfaye said, he also feels lonely.

Most of the people who come here are fleeing the turbulent political situation
in their homelands and are hoping to live peaceful lives here.

Even those who come for different reasons - such as education - fear the
possibility of being sent back if they do not get a green card.

Still, Tesfaye said, the good thing about America is that there is always a hope
of a better future.

Negassa is 65 years old and has a large family, with three daughters and five
sons. He works and lives in Minneapolis and has lived there since 1996. Negassa
said he came here because living in Ethiopia was becoming more dangerous for
him.

When he lived in Ethiopia, he was arrested four times for his politics - he was
a member of the Oromo Liberation Front, the country's opposition party.

Because of his politics, Negassa was forced to leave his hometown of Dombi Dolo
in Welega province in 1993. He had been hiding in the capital of the country,
Addis Ababa, (Finfine), for three years until he came to America.

Negassa was able to immigrate using the invitation that his daughter sent him to
attend her wedding.

After he first arrived, Negassa said, he wanted to return to Ethiopia. But he
decided to stay here because he feared he would be killed if he returned. He
considered applying for political asylum; but applying for asylum is very
difficult and he decided against it.

Eventually - "with the help of God" - Negassa said he got his green card through
his daughter because she had lived in the United States for a long time.

Now, he said, he is enjoying a better life. And although he misses much about
his country, he said he is living a peaceful life with his family.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 26, 1997 Saturday

IMMIGRANT 'SLAVERY' RING FOUND IN NORTH CAROLINA;
AUTHORITIES RAID HOUSES, TAKE 17 DEAF INTO CUSTODY

BYLINE: JOE WHEELAN, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: SANFORD, N.C.


Immigration agents raided two houses Friday to break up an alleged ring similar
to one in New York City that kept deaf Mexicans in virtual slavery, making them
sell trinkets on the street.

Fourteen deaf adults and three children were taken into custody. No immediate
charges were filed.

Authorities were tipped off by a woman who fled and contacted the Mexican
consulate in Detroit, said Teodoro Maus, Mexico's consul general in Atlanta.

Maus said he believes the New York and North Carolina operations were related.
But the Justice Department said it still was trying to determine that.

"They didn't have complaints of beatings, but they were being held captive and
were forced to work and to turn over the money and to bring in a minimum of
money every day," Maus said.

The two brick houses are well known to neighbors, who said the Mexicans peddled
key chains and tiny American flags on streets and outside supermarkets in this
town of 21,000, about 40 miles southwest of Raleigh.

After the discovery of the New York City operation last weekend, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service established an anti-exploitation task force to
investigate tips from around the country about other operations.

In New York City, 57 people, most of them unable to hear or speak, lived in two
homes. The group allegedly was smuggled into the United States to peddle $1
trinkets on the subways and streets.

Relatives in Mexico said they were recruited with false promises of high incomes
in the United States.

Seven other Mexicans face charges including smuggling and extortion in the New
York City case. The alleged ringleader still is at large.

Mexican consular officials also reported finding six deaf and mute Mexican
vendors in Chicago. But an official with the Mexican Consulate in Chicago said
those workers reported they were being treated adequately.

"According to what they say, they are working without any problems," said Juan
Jose Salgado, deputy consul general. "They are not mistreated. The place is
acceptable. It's not the best. They buy food. They cook there. Apparently, it's
not so bad."

Salgado said his office is working with the Chicago police on the investigation.

The Mexicans in North Carolina were moved to Charlotte and housed in a hotel.
Agents were interviewing them and some expressed relief at being released said
Carole Florman of the Justice Department in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 30, 1997 Saturday

STATE FAIR WELCOMES A HISTORIC SPATE OF NEW U.S. CITIZENS;
NATURALIZATION CEREMONY MARKS INTERNATIONAL DAY

BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 703 words


Yelena Semashko was so excited about getting her U.S. citizenship - and so
worried about getting lost - that she made a trial run the day before the real
event.

On Thursday, the 73-year-old Ukrainian native boarded a bus from her Minneapolis
home to the state fairgrounds. Then she navigated her way to the 4-H Building.
That excursion made her return trip Friday a snap.

Holding 4-H cloverleaf cardboard fans and American flags, Semashko and nearly
400 others from more than 60 nations walked into the auditorium as foreigners.
They walked out as Americans.

By doing so, they became part of what could possibly be a single-year record of
new naturalizations in the federal district that includes Minnesota and both
Dakotas. Moreover, they took part in what is fast becoming a staple of the Fair.

"I feel myself happy today," said Semashko, who studied for the exam with the
help of volunteers from the First Baptist Church in Minneapolis. "It is great
day in my life. It is beautiful."

While she misses friends in her Eastern European homeland, she doesn't miss the
government or bad economy there. As a Jew, she also said she faced
discrimination. On that basis, she immigrated to America five years ago with her
husband and daughter.

For the last three years, the naturalization ceremony has been a cornerstone of
the Fair's International Day. The event is too new to be a tradition. But it has
lasted longer than some fads. While Emma Lazarus never said: "Give me your
tired, your poor ... and I'll give you a Pronto Pup," the Fair is an
All-American locale for such an event.

"We have a lot of people who have reacted very positively to it," said Susan
Ritt, the Fair's marketing director. "It's been a nice thing for both the folks
participating in the ceremonies and their families, as well as onlookers. It
gives them a fun day at the fair. We have no plans at this point to discontinue
it."

In Bloomington, district officials with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service also like the event. "I think we will" keep doing it, said Ray
Carpenter, INS assistant district director for examinations. (Most people take
the citizenship oath from a federal judge in a courthouse; U.S. District Judge
Paul Magnuson presided over Friday's event.)

In the first 10 months of the fiscal year, Carpenter said 7,952 people applied
for citizenship. At least 1,600 additional applications are expected in August
and September. Guessing that 90 percent of applicants will pass the citizenship
test, Carpenter said the single-year total of newly naturalized citizens could
approach the 9,000 mark.

"I think most people would say we haven't had numbers like we have today," said
Carpenter.

Many families and friends of the new U.S. citizens made Friday a daylong
celebration. People packed the auditorium, sitting on green 4-H benches and
facing a music stage decorated as the Broadway Diner. To record the moment,
relatives and friends popped flashbulbs and rolled video.

Many faced a long, tough road getting to the moment.

Mohamed Elsherif, a native of Egypt, has been trying to come to America since
1976. When he finally arrived in 1991, sponsored by his American mother, he had
to wait another five years to be eligible for citizenship.

Thinh Dang, a Vietnamese immigrant in 1989, finally acquired the citizenship
that his daughter got three years ago by virtue of being born in America.

Other multinational, multicultural events also took place during International
Day at the Fair.

Moorhead-based Concordia Language Villages supplied volunteers to staff booths
and teach in 10 languages. "Passports" were issued that featured short phrases
in Chinese, Danish, Finish, French, German, Japanese, Norwegian, Russian,
Spanish and Swedish.

"We're excited about the opportunity to share our love of language and culture
with people at the fair," said Christine Schulze, executive director of the
nonprofit organization.

Four giant "earth balls," each one 6 feet in diameter, were also scheduled to be
rolled along the daily parade route. And the fair planned special events - from
the chopstick challenge to the tortilla toss - involving food and utensils from
around the world.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Scott Takushi, Pioneer Press
Tina Tanchin, 33, originally from Canada, celebrated her new
citizenship after being sworn in along with 380 others at the Fair.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            September 1, 1997 Monday

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS WILL LOSE FOOD STAMPS BEGINNING TODAY

BYLINE: Maria Douglas Reeve, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 807 words


Starting today, legal immigrants will no longer receive federal food stamps,
leaving the counties, community advocates and food shelves anxiously
anticipating what the need will be.

More than 10,000 non-citizen, legal immigrants face losing their food stamp
benefits, though the state will replace 60 percent of what they would have
received, which amounts to $38 per person each month.

Even that, however, will end June 30, 1998.

Counties are hoping the state eventually will replace what the federal
government has taken away.

Advocates in immigrant communities say there is much confusion and fear,
particularly among elderly immigrants, as they figure out who is eligible and
who is not.

Most people losing their food stamps will be eligible for the state's $38
replacement grant. Those eligible are non-citizen families with children now
receiving cash assistance, with some exceptions.

Single adults who received general assistance or Supplemental Security Income
and have now lost food stamps are eligible for a program called Minnesota Grown,
which gives them a $40 voucher to buy products grown in this state. So far, 17
of the state's 87 counties have applied to participate in the program.

County government representatives say they have been trying to make the
transition as smooth as possible.

"We have tried to give clients as much verbal warning as we could, while
providing some written general information," said Jillian Middlebrooks,
non-citizen issues team leader for Hennepin County.

The county has translated information into seven languages and has bilingual
staff members to help with interpreting.

"It still is very confusing," Middlebrooks said. "We are hearing from people
asking, 'How am I going to feed my children?' I don't know that we have a lot of
answers."

Ultimately, Middlebrooks said, no one who was receiving non-medical assistance
will be cut off entirely.

What to do?

Cutting food stamps and, with them, the ability of some people to get the food
they need, has consequences beyond saving money for the government. And it may
be counterproductive.

Adults and children can suffer long- and short-term effects of poor nutrition,
said Dr. Bonnie Braun, associate dean for outreach in the College of Human
Ecology at the University of Minnesota.

Braun directs the nutrition education component of the food stamp program.
People need adequate nutrition for the mental and physical capacity to work or
search for a job, she said. Chronic undernutrition takes its toll on the family
as well as society in higher health care costs.

"The question is where are we going to spend our money, because it's going to
get spent," Braun said.

Studies have shown repeatedly that children need adequate nutrition to grow and
learn. Recent research shows a connection between adequate nutrition and brain
development.

"When you cut children (off food stamps), you are in effect reducing their
ability to learn," Braun said. "If they can't learn, they can't earn and can't
become contributing, productive, self-sufficient adults."

Those who won't be receiving food stamps will go to family or local food
shelves, do without or find jobs to earn money for food.

But roughly 10 percent of Minnesotans are hungry or malnourished.

Braun said her classes teach families how to make wise purchasing decisions and
stretch their money while getting the nourishment they need. One goal is to
ensure families know how to get the basics, such as necessary amounts of
calcium, protein, and nutrients from fruits and vegetables.

Waiting and worrying

John Giovannini, executive director of Capitol Community Services, which
operates five food shelves in Ramsey County, said he and his colleagues knew
there would be an increase in food shelf use as a result of the changes in
welfare laws.

So far, the increases have been among white and black community members, while
use among the Asian community has decreased. He said there has been increased
use of 31 percent among whites, 27 percent among blacks and that Asian
immigrants have decreased their use 40 percent between April and July.

"Can I offer an explanation for that? Not a chance," he said.

Giovannini said Capitol Community's five food shelves can't supply enough food
to every family that needs it every month. As more changes in welfare laws go
into effect, they wait - and worry.

"The shelves are not exactly sagging under the weight of the product on them,"
he said. "We are thin. It still doesn't feel as comfortable as it did a year
ago. When you have a 20 percent increase, that makes a difference."

For more information

For help understanding the new law:

In Hennepin County, call 340-3400.

In Ramsey County, Hmong people should call 379-6397. Others should speak to
their financial workers.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 20, 1997 Saturday

VOTE PROSECUTOR CHARGES DELAYS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 73 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Foot-dragging by immigration officials in Washington is hindering a federal
investigation of whether foreigners registered to vote in Texas, a federal
prosecutor contends. The FBI and the U.S. attorney's office in Dallas are
examining whether non-U.S. citizens are on Dallas County's roll of registered
voters. It is a criminal offense for foreigners to vote or register to vote,
with maximum penalties of deportation or imprisonment.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 23, 1997 Tuesday

IMMIGRATION AGENCY FEES TO RISE

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 78 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which retreated in September from
plans to impose hefty fee increases following an outcry by lawmakers and
advocacy groups, will make a new effort in 1998. The INS is readying a plan that
would substantially increase more than two dozen of the fees it charges for such
services as processing naturalization applications and renewing green cards for
resident aliens. The current fee scale has been in place since 1994.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 24, 1997 Wednesday

INS COMMITS TO IMPROVING LAGGING COMPLAINT PROCESS

BYLINE: ALICE ANN LOVE, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government says it will do more to make sure immigrants - even ones who
enter the United States illegally - know their civil rights and how to register
a complaint if abused by border control officials.

"We insist on proper treatment, on humane treatment, on polite treatment of
people that are coming into the country whether their documents are correct or
not," Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner said at
a news conference Tuesday.

Human rights groups have compiled reports of beatings, shootings, rapes and even
deaths that allegedly have occurred at the hands of border patrol agents. And
immigration advocates complain that although the INS has nearly doubled patrols
in the past four years, its resources for dealing with complaints of civil
rights abuses have not kept pace.

English-Spanish posters and complaint forms have been displayed in immigration
processing centers since 1996, but next year the INS also will distribute
pamphlets and organize community meetings to explain how to make a com plaint,
Meissner said.

The agency also will publicly distribute copies of its policies on the use of
force, firearms, pursuit, searches and employees' powers to arrest, interrogate
and detain people.

A new training program will introduce INS employees to immigrant community
leaders, and INS supervisors will get handbooks that include instructions on how
to properly investigate complaints.

Meissner announced the plans in response to findings by a citizens' advisory
panel created by Congress to recommend ways the INS can better handle complaints
against its employees.

Allyson Collins, a senior researcher with Human Rights Watch-Americas, called
the changes "common sense" and "long overdue."

The panel of private citizens, Justice Department and INS officials, and a
representative of the Mexican government concluded in a Sept. 30 report that the
public lacks information about and confidence in the INS complaint process.

The INS in 1997 received about 230 complaints involving allegations of physical
abuse, down from about 350 in 1996, according to the INS Audit Office. .

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 26, 1998 Monday

FOR ABUSED NON-CITIZENS, RECENT LAW MAY OFFER REFUGE;
STATUTE SEVERS TIES TO ABUSERS, LETS VICTIMS GET RESIDENCY ON OWN

BYLINE: Ruben Rosario, Staff Columnist

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1098 words


Lucinda had two choices: suffer more black eyes and bruises in silence, or risk
deportation by reporting the abuse.

The 23-year-old undocumented immigrant and mother of three probably would have
tolerated more punishment had it not been for her husband's escalating violence
against their 2-year-old daughter. The father, an alcoholic, had turned his back
on the girl at birth after learning she was a girl instead of a boy.

Lucinda (not her real name) made up her mind to act the day she discovered welts
on the toddler's buttocks. Police were called. Cops may protect and serve, but
they don't usually snitch on abuse victims like Lucinda. Her husband was
prosecuted and locked up. It seemed to Lucinda she had no chance to raise her
U.S.-born children here.

Only one person was legally qualified to serve as a sponsor in her quest for
permanent residency - her husband, a legal U.S. resident. But the man had
repeatedly used the threat of deportation to keep her in line, a common ploy in
such abusive relationships.

But Lucinda may get a chance after all because of a little-known provision
included in the Violence Against Women Act of 1994.

Described as "self-petitioning," the law allows immigrant spouses of abusive
U.S. citizens or legal residents to file for residency status on their own
behalf. Although Congress passed the act in 1994, the special relief wasn't
implemented until March 1996, after the Justice Department issued guidelines on
its application.

It could take up to five years before Lucinda's request is resolved. In the
meantime, the provision has allowed her to obtain a work permit and prevents her
deportation while the review process is under way.

Battered women's advocates in Minnesota and elsewhere describe the 1994
immigration-relief provision as an incredibly important tool that encourages
abused illegal immigrant spouses and children to report abuse. It also restores
the first crucial step in seeking citizenship without having to depend on the
abuser. The law could apply to an abused man, but all the applications filed so
far have involved female victims.

"These women face more obstacles in addition to those faced by abused women who
are U.S. residents," said Mary Schouveiller, a staff attorney at Centro Legal, a
St. Paul-based agency that provides bilingual help and representation in general
immigration and family law matters.

"Often, they are subjected to tremendous emotional and mental abuse, threatened
with having their birth certificates, visas or other documents destroyed,
prevented from learning English and cut off from other people. There was one man
who kept such tight control over the finances that he shopped and bought bras
for his wife to keep her from having any money."

Tim Counts, spokesman for the regional office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Bloomington, said about 2,500 self-petition
applications were filed nationally with the federal agency between October 1996
and September 1997. Local numbers could not be provided because all applications
are forwarded to a central INS processing center in Burlington, Vt.

Leslye Orloff, founder of AYUDA, a Washington-based law referral and advocacy
group for battered women, conducted initial research about the plight of abused
immigrant women that helped push forward the legislation. Orloff said a
substantial number of the applicants include immigrant wives of current and
former U.S. servicemen. Mail-order brides are another large category.

"The applications are coming from everywhere across the country," said Orloff.
"They are coming from Iowa, Louisiana, Minnesota. ... You wouldn't think you'd
find any in places like Wyoming, but we've had them from there."

Maria Baldini, a staff attorney at the Immigrant Law Center in St. Paul, said
her office has processed applications from women of Hmong, German as well as
Sierra Leone descent.

Schouveiller has reviewed 25 cases and helped process about eight applications
since September. She assisted Lucinda after the woman relocated to Minnesota
from Southern California with her three children. She also helped the woman
obtain an order of protection after her husband traveled to the Twin Cities
following his release from prison and showed up at a place where she was
staying.

Not all battered immigrant women are eligible, and there are pages of
regulations and requirements. Among them are stipulations that applicants have
to be married to the abuser at the time of filing, must have good moral
character, must document the abuse through police reports, medical records or
other methods, and also demonstrate that they would suffer extreme hardship if
returned to their native land.

"The law does not give these women any special treatment or privilege,"
Schouveiller said. "But what it does do is restore a first step denied them by
the abuser. In some cases, this law can be a lifesaver."

POWER AND CONTROL
Ways battered immigrant women can be abused.

Physical Abuse
Pushing, shoving, hitting, slapping, choking, pulling hair, punching, kicking,
grabbing, using a weapon against her, beating, throwing her down, twisting arms,
tripping, biting. Isolation
Isolating her from friends, family, or anyone who speaks her language. Not
allowing her to elarn English.

Emotional Abuse
Lying about her immigration status. Writing her family lies about her. Calling
her racist names.

Economic Abuse
Threatening to report her if she works "under the table." Not letting her get
job training or schooling.

Sexual Abuse
Calling her a prostitute of "mail-order bride." Alleging she has a history of
prostitution on legal papers.

Using Children
Threatening to take her children away from the U.S. Threatening to report her
children to the INS.

Threats
Threatening to report her to the INS to get her deported. Threatening to
withdraw the petition to legalize her immigration status.

Using citizenship or residency privilege
Fail to file papers to legalize her immigration status, withdraw or threaten to
withdraw papers filed for her residency.

Intimidation
Hiding or destroying important papers (i.e. passport, ID cards, health care
card, etc.) Destroying her only property from her country of origin.

DETAILS
For more information about the self-petition process under the Violence Against
Women Act, call Centro Legal at (612) 642-1890 or (800) 245-5753, or the
Immigrant Law Center at (612) 291-0110.

Ruben Rosario's public safety column appears Mondays. He can be reached at
228-5454 or by e-mail: rrosario@pioneerpress.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 28, 1998 Wednesday

20 INDICTED IN CITIZENSHIP FRAUD

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 138 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, CALIF.


Twenty people were indicted on charges of letting as many as 13,000 immigrants
pay up to $500 each for passing scores on citizenship exams. The 20 either
worked for or operated testing centers as subcontractors for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Twelve were arrested by Tuesday, when indictments were
unsealed, and the others were being sought. The suspects were accused of
collecting more than $3 million from immigrants in 22 states in exchange for
promises they would pass written tests involving English comprehension, U.S.
history and civics. Each person tested by the defendants will be re-tested, said
Johnny Williams, regional director for the INS. Officials became suspicious
after people who could barely understand English began showing up to take the
oral part of the citizenship exam.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 31, 1998 Saturday

'GREEN CARD MARRIAGE' RING FOILED, 21 CHARGED

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 205 words

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, N.Y.


Twenty-one people have been indicted on charges of arranging or entering into
marriages of convenience to help 10 foreigners get their green cards.

The three alleged ringleaders who set up the nuptials and served as marriage
witnesses were charged along with 18 of the marriage partners.

"This is real-life, not the movies, and this is going to be a miserable
experience for the U.S. residents," federal prosecutor Christopher Taffe said
Friday. "All these ladies are going to get stuck with a divorce down the road or
an annulment."

The immigrants, nine men and a woman from Peru, Colombia, Brazil and Ecuador,
were married to 10 U.S. residents from western New York and Pennsylvania.

Two women who were married were not charged. Prosecutors would not say why.

After obtaining marriage licenses from small-town justices between 1995 and
1997, the couples allegedly went their separate ways.

Each of the Americans was paid to be wed, but prosecutors would not say how
much.

The defendants were charged with conspiring to commit immigration marriage
fraud. Each could get five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

Immigrants who marry American citizens can obtain a U.S. residency visa, or
green card.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 16, 1998 Monday

SUICIDE OF HMONG WOMAN HIGHLIGHTS WELFARE WORRIES OF IMMIGRANT WAR VETERANS

BYLINE: Deborah Hastings, Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 978 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Chia Yang lay in the dark and waited for her husband to fall asleep. Then she
got up and changed her clothes.

She slipped past the bedrooms of her son Yia, 21, and daughter Janie, 14,
sleeping in their American beds, steeped in American culture.

Yang had endured war in Southeast Asia, walked miles through rotting corpses and
lived four years in suffocating refugee camps. A Hmong tribeswoman from the
mountains of Laos, she was 36 before she first saw a water faucet.

But at 54, after bearing seven children and more heartache than most, she looped
a cord around her throat, tied it to an overhead beam, and jumped off the trunk
of her husband's Toyota.

She ended her life because she believed the United States betrayed her by
cutting her family's welfare benefits.

About 40,000 Hmong, including Yang's husband and her two brothers, were enlisted
by the CIA from 1961 to 1974 as guerrillas in the Vietnam War. In return, they
were given rice and an average salary of $3 a month.

The Hmong say the U.S. government also promised to take care of them, like any
other war veteran, then reneged.

In September, the U.S. Department of Agriculture cut food stamps to some 800,000
legal immigrants - including an estimated 20,000 Laotians - as part of welfare
reform.

A month later, Yang was dead. Illiterate, she left suicide cassettes blaming the
government

"She lost her country because we fought on the American side. Then she loses her
benefits because she wasn't a U.S. citizen," said Yang's 30-year-old son, Toby
Vue, sitting in his Sacramento home.

Panic and despair have prompted two other suicides, community leaders say - one
in Fresno, Calif., home to the largest U.S. Hmong population, another in
Wisconsin.

"The whole community is at the point of desperation. They say 'We fought for
your country, we died for your country.' Assistance from the government is what
they were promised," said Victor Hwang of the Asian Law Caucus of San Francisco.

Since the Vietnam War ended in 1975, about 180,000 mostly Hmong Laotians have
immigrated to America. More than half landed on federal assistance. An estimated
35 percent to 45 percent remain there, nearly all of them older people. Unlike
their children, they couldn't assimilate into U.S. culture.

President Clinton, in his January State of the Union address, asked Congress to
reinstate food stamps to legal immigrants by December. That is too far off,
Hmong advocates say.

"Some people are talking about wiping out their whole families because they feel
so bad, and betrayed, and not worth anything anymore," said Yi Xiong of the
California Statewide Lao Hmong Coalition.

Philip Smith directs the 11,000-member Lao Veterans of America in Washington,
D.C. He is pushing a bill making it easier for Laotians to become citizens.

"This is really not the way this country should be treating people who gave
their lives during the Vietnam War," he said.

CIA spokesman Mark Mansfield declined comment.

Jim Parker is one of the few surviving CIA advisers who served in Laos. He made
no promises to the Hmong, he says. He does not consider them veterans.

"When they talk about fighting and dying for the Americans, it was a common
enemy we were fighting," said Parker, who now writes books and lives in North
Carolina. "They were already fighting the communists when we went there. I don't
feel like we abandoned them."

The United States is not the best home for them, he said. "They're a Stone Age
people.

The Hmong were recruited - some say drafted - by Gen. Vang Pao, the
highest-ranking Hmong in the Lao military. Pao also worked for the CIA.

Laos, sandwiched between Thailand and Vietnam, was pivotal to Pentagon
strategists fending off communism. But under a 1962 treaty, Laos also was
off-limits to U.S. military personnel.

So the CIA waged covert war there, using the Hmong to gather intelligence,
rescue downed U.S. pilots and guard radar and surveillance installations.

The Hmong suffered heavy casualties. An estimated 30,000 soldiers and civilians
died before the last Americans pulled out in 1974.

Chia Yang and her husband Sua Chai Vue gathered their children, a few pounds of
rice and started walking to Thailand, where refugee camps had opened at the
border.

At the camps, the family waited four years before entering the United States.
They were woefully unprepared.

Vue's father rarely found work. The family lived on federal assistance from the
day they arrived.

The 1996 Welfare Reform Act took effect in September. And so began the last year
of Chia Yang's life.

The first government letter warned that her disability payments of $640 would
cease. That would leave only her husband's $400 welfare check and $180 in food
stamps for the couple and their two youngest children to live on each month.

Yang panicked, then slid into depression. She already suffered from high blood
pressure and kidney problems.

She tried to become a U.S. citizen, but twice failed because of her poor
English.

"I'm worthless," she told her son. "Maybe they're right. I'm just like a dummy."
For the first and only time, she spoke of killing herself.

"Don't talk like that," her son said.

Vue visited Oct. 15, the day before his mother chose to die. Her eldest son sat
next to her. "I just need to rest a little bit," she said. "I'll be OK
tomorrow."

She watched TV with her husband. They went to bed about midnight.

At 3:30 a.m. her husband of 33 years woke alone. He checked the bathroom, the
kitchen, the backyard. Then he opened the garage door.

Her family found two cassette tapes. On tape she spoke of her Supplemental
Security Income and her Aid to Families with Dependent Children. "What if I lose
my SSI?" She asked. "What if my husband and children lose their AFDC grant? If
they stop my grant I'm going to die anyway."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 22, 1998 Sunday

10 STUDENTS FACE BEING DEPORTED FOR VISA VIOLATIONS

BYLINE: Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 348 words


Ten foreign students are awaiting deportation hearings after being charged with
violating the rules of a student-visa program that allows them to study in the
United States.

Investigators from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service received a
tip that the students were working at off-campus jobs while attending classes at
Winona State University, St. Mary's University and Red Wing-Winona Technical
College.

After a two-month investigation, the 10 students were arrested Thursday and
Friday in Winona. The eight men and two women ranged in age from 18 to 30.
Agents had warrants to arrest 26 people. The remaining 16 students will be sent
orders to report to the INS office in Bloomington, said special agent Chuck
Midby.

The students are from Yemen, Malaysia, Kenya, Pakistan and Bangladesh. They were
employed through two temporary agencies, which cooperated with the
investigation, Midby said.

A half-million foreigners are studying in the United States, said Bruce Gawtry,
a district INS inspector in the Bloomington office.

Under the student-visa program, they are allowed to work up to 20 hours at
on-campus jobs unless they receive special authorization from the INS, he said.

Permits for off-campus jobs are granted only if the work is part of an
internship or practicum approved by the school or if the student can prove
economic hardship, he said. The policy is meant to preserve jobs for U.S.
citizens.

At Winona State University last fall, a record 342 foreign students enrolled out
a total of 7,000 students, said Tom Grier, director of public information.

Grier speculated that some poor foreign students feel pressure to work to
support themselves or their families.

Still, that does not condone seeking illegal work off campus, he said.

"We have a very involved orientation program for international students that
covers employment," Grier said. "They should have a very clear idea of what they
can and can't do. The employers also theoretically know what the rules are. But
if they fail to follow the rules, how much more can we do?"

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 16, 1998 Monday

CHURCH COALITION TAKES ON THE INS;
GROUP DEMANDS BETTER COMMUNICATION BETWEEN AGENCY AND LATINO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: CLARK MORPHEW, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 769 words


A coalition of churches is taking on the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service and demanding the federal government take steps to improve communication
with immigrants.

During a Sunday rally in St. Stephen's Catholic Church in Minneapolis, about 250
mostly Latino people cheered a resolution demanding the INS make a greater
effort to help immigrants maneuver through the maze of documents and rules of
the immigration process.

Speakers said telephoning the INS district office in Bloomington is almost
impossible because phone lines are busy and, if someone does answer, that person
generally speaks only English. Rally organizers called for an open telephone
line in Spanish for public information on general immigration information.

The rally also brought complaints about the hours the INS office is open. Doors
close at 4:30 p.m. Mondays and at 3 p.m. the rest of the week. Those hours make
it impossible for working people to come into the office for advice and counsel.
The rally called on the INS to remain open until 9 p.m. Mondays and until 6 p.m.
the rest of the week.

Dean Hove, deputy director of the district INS office, said budget constraints
and heavy caseloads preclude meeting all the group's requests. However, Hove
said steps will be taken to improve communication, including the opening of a
second field office, possibly in St. Paul, within the year.

The rally was organized by the St. Paul Ecumenical Alliance of Congregations and
Interfaith Action of Minneapolis. Esilda Narvaez, a member of St. Stephen's and
a spokeswoman for Interfaith Alliance, said the campaign will be successful. A
meeting with INS officials is planned for May 9.

"They will come, and they will cooperate because we are taxpaying people also,"
Narvaez said. "The majority of these people are hardworking people. For them,
this is not the good life. Some work two jobs. This is where they come and find
out how to work."

One of the major concerns of the church coalition is preserving immigrant
families.

If undocumented people are arrested in a raid, they are generally detained for
24 hours and then sent immediately back to their native country. Family members
are not notified when arrests are made and, therefore, some spouses and children
are left in the United States without support.

There were 1,600 undocumented people arrested and deported in the INS district
in 1996, according to event organizers. Those who sign a waiver of rights are
sent immediately back to their home country. Those who refuse to sign the waiver
undergo a deportation hearing.

The INS' Hove noted that the federal agency is required to enforce laws against
illegal immigration. But he conceded the district office has fallen behind
because of a record number of applications for citizenship and other demands.

Hove admitted the public has trouble getting through by telephone. He said a
technical problem should be fixed as early as this week.

Hove said Friday he was not aware of the Sunday rally and that the INS was not
asked to attend. He said he had no knowledge of the demands from the coalition
until the Pioneer Press faxed him a copy of the proposal. However, Narvaez said
INS officials were invited to Sunday's gathering. She said the demands would be
presented to the immigration officials at the May 9 meeting.

At the rally, speakers told of being insulted by INS officers and being treated
like criminals. Narvaez said immigration officials are more interested in
deporting illegal immigrants than helping legal immigrants achieve citizenship.

But the chief complaint was about communication: Most of the forms used in the
immigration process are in English, not Spanish. There are not enough
Spanish-speaking people to guide immigrants through the bureaucracy. And there
are few Spanish-speaking attorneys to help immigrants process forms and become
naturalized citizens.

Another of the demands is for the INS to recruit and train more bilingual staff.
Hove said, however, that the greater need regionally is for bilingual staff
members who speak the Hmong language rather than Spanish.

Alberto Puga, one of the organizers of the rally, noted in a speech that 85
percent of the people deported from Minnesota are Latinos. That would seem to
indicate a need for Spanish-speaking officials, especially because most
deportation documents, including the waiver of rights, are in English rather
than Spanish.

Hove said the INS was willing to work with the church coalition. "It's to our
benefit to have those we deal with be represented in the best possible way," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 photos: John Doman, Pioneer Press
1) Victor Martinez, left, holding the U.S. flag, and his twin brother
Miquel Martinez, holding the Mexican flag, shout pro-immigration
slogans Sunday during a march in Minneapolis that ended with a rally
in St. Stephen's Catholic Church. A coalition of churches is demanding
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service make a greater effort
to help immigrants navigate the immigration process.
2) Genaro Arellano Bastida of Minneapolis carries a cross Sunday
during a march from Holy Rosary Catholic Church to St. Stephen's
Catholic Church, where a rally was held to demand better treatment by
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 18, 1998 Wednesday

ENVIRONMENTALISTS DON'T WANT TO ADMIT IMMIGRATION IS STRANGLING RESOURCES

BYLINE: Ben Zuckerman, Commentator

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 751 words


We in the Sierra Club have a dream - of clear free-flowing streams, of protected
towering wilderness, of bracing clean air and of stability in the lives of all.
Sadly, reality is quite the opposite.

Last June, the president of the U.N. General Assembly opened Earth Summit II
saying: "We as a species - as a planet - are teetering on the edge, living
unsustainably and perpetuating inequity, and may soon pass the point of no
return."

What causes environmental damage? It's too many people using too much energy and
materials. The United States is the third most populous country after China and
India. Because the average American consumes so much, we 270 million Americans
have as much worldwide environmental impact as the more than 4 billion people
who live in all of the developing countries combined.

To mitigate our impact, we must cut high individual consumption and stabilize
the U.S. population. Our population is growing more quickly than that of any
major industrialized country. We should give incentives to families to have no
more than two children.

But according to the Census Bureau, immigrants who arrived after 1970 (when
Congress raised immigration levels) and their descendants will account for more
than 80 percent of U.S. population growth between now and mid-21st century,
when, at present growth rates, our population could exceed half a billion.

This is why many environmentalists believe it essential to change U.S.
immigration laws. And this is why the more than half a million members of the
Sierra Club are now voting on what the Los Angeles Times has called a "litmus
test" of "huge importance": An affirmative vote will direct club leadership to
address the environmental consequences of U.S. immigration policies.

Virtually all environmentalists recognize the huge negative impact of the
ever-increasing American population. So why has it been so difficult for the
Sierra Club to take a stand on immigration? Diane Wittenberg, CEO of Edison EV,
speaking at a University of California-Los Angeles symposium last April,
captured the essence of the problem when she pointed out that most Americans are
"environmentalish" rather than true "environmentalists." Americans give plenty
of lip service to the environment and perhaps recycle a few items, but when push
comes to shove, the environment takes a back seat. Even many Sierra Club
members, unfortunately without careful thought, rank certain nonenvironmental
issues higher than the environment.

Charges of racism and elitism are often leveled at those who would limit
immigration. Given that numerous polls have shown that a clear majority of black
and Latino Americans favor substantial reductions in both legal and illegal
immigration, how can it be racist to agree? Given that these polls show that it
is the poorest Americans who most strongly favor drastic cuts in immigration
levels, how can it be elitist to agree?

The Wilderness Society and a few other environmental groups have stated publicly
that ecological sustainability requires lower immigration rates. But most
leading environmental organizations are merely environmentalish and, like the
Sierra Club, have remained quiet. Compounding the problem are two other
environmentalish players: the liberal media and "environmental" politicians like
Vice President Al Gore.

Gore and the Democratic Party support continued high levels of immigration and
have rushed to naturalize immigrants. In the short run this will produce more
Democratic voters, but in the longer run such policies will lead inexorably,
sometime in the 22nd century, to a nation of 1 billion Americans with their
highly polluting lifestyle.

The liberal media have published millions of words about the tribulations of
individual immigrants. While individuals deserve compassion, the media should
also illuminate how so many millions of immigrants, eager to embrace the highly
consumptive American lifestyle, take their toll on the environment. In an
avalanche, each unique, beautiful snowflake pleads not guilty.

Politicians and leading news media and environmental organizations should engage
in serious dialogues to produce an effective stabilization policy for the U.S.
U.S. population. Otherwise we can only anticipate a worse report card at Earth
Summit III.

Zuckerman, a member of UCLA's Institute of the Environment, is an initiator of
the Sierra Club immigration vote now in progress. Distributed by the Los Angeles
Times-Washington Post News Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 20, 1998 Friday

INS SAYS IT NEEDS MORE MONEY

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 103 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service says it needs a lot more money to
reduce to no more than six months the time it takes for an immigrant to become
an American. James Angus, acting executive director of the INS' naturalization
operations, told a House subcommittee Thursday his agency is making progress in
reducing a backlog of 1.5 million immigrants who have waited often for two years
or more to be sworn in as citizens. Unless it can add about 290 people to its
staff, however, the wait still will be 10 to 12 months by September 1999, he
said. That would mean $82 million more by July, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 11, 1998 Saturday

U.S. EMBASSY SHELTERS INDONESIAN IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: MAIN; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 51 words

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA


Driven to desperation by a mass-deportation campaign, Indonesian immigrants
scaled the walls of the U.S. Embassy on Friday to seek political asylum. The
eight illegal immigrants who jumped over the embassy's walls will remain until
American officials have determined their status, a U.S. spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 26, 1998 Sunday

SIERRA CLUB DEFEATS IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 112 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Sierra Club members have voted down a controversial proposal that would have
called for strict curbs on U.S. immigration.

In weeklong balloting tabulated Saturday, members of the club voted 60 percent
to 40 percent against the measure, club leaders said.

Sierra Club President Adam Werbach, who had threatened to resign if it passed,
said he was relieved.

The measure was among the most divisive in the history of the 550,000-member
club.

Backers of the initiative campaign argued that the United States cannot hope to
slow down the degradation of natural resources, halt urban sprawl, and protect
wildlife habitat without stabilizing population growth.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 14, 1998 Thursday

FOOD STAMPS;
SENATE WAS RIGHT TO RESTORE BENEFITS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 372 words


The U.S. Senate wisely and decently revised welfare reform Tuesday, voting to
restore federal food stamps to a quarter million legal aliens who were stripped
of those benefits in the 1996 welfare overhaul. The House should follow the
Senate's lead in reaffirming the decency of America, a nation built by
immigrants.

The new legislation restores food stamps only to elderly, disabled or underage
immigrants who were in America before the welfare enactment two summers ago.
Health care and some cash benefits were restored to the same group last year.

Some immigrant advocates say the restorations should go further, to include able
bodied adults and newer arrivals. They have a case, but it can also be argued
that able-bodied adult aliens have a reasonable prospect of achieving
self-sufficiency and/or citizenship. New immigrants, unlike those already here,
have full knowledge of the new rules when they leave their homelands and come to
America. (Refugees, who have no choice about coming, did not suffer severe
cuts.)

However that continuing debate unfolds, there was never any respectable
rationale for cutting off legal residents whose age or disability presents
daunting obstacles to citizenship and prosperity. It doesn't advance welfare
reform's worthy goal of encouraging self-help among the needy to withdraw aid
from the truly helpless.

These were simply hard-hearted budget cuts that undermined the support of many
who favor tough-minded welfare revisions.

To its credit, a large bipartisan majority of senators has seen all of this, as
Minnesota lawmakers of both parties did in the last two legislative sessions.
Minnesota's new welfare plan replaced many of the lost immigrant benefits at
state expense, as did plans in some other states.

But these are not proper state burdens. Legal immigrants are in this country
under federal laws that states are powerless to change. They are a core federal
responsibility.

All through American history, immigrants have initially struggled to adjust to
their new life, only to contribute immeasurably to the nation as time and
generations passed. America can afford to share with today's immigrants a bit of
the wealth yesterday's newcomers helped create.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 14, 1998 Thursday

ASSEMBLY VOTES TO RESTORE FOOD STAMPS TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 297 words

DATELINE: MADISON, WIS.


Immigrants, including the state's large population of Hmong refugees, would be
eligible for food stamps again under a bill passed by a key legislative
committee Wednesday.

By a vote of 86-11, the Assembly passed a bill that would allow the state to
spend $4.5 million for food stamps cut by the federal government.

If approved by the Senate this week, the bill would restore benefits to 7,200
legal aliens in Wisconsin, including Hmong immigrants who came here from
Southeast Asia after the Vietnam War.

"We have many political refugees who fought with the United States and then got
their benefits cut off," said Thai Vue, executive associate director of La
Crosse Area Hmong Mutual Assistance Association. "It's something that's hard to
live with."

Under changes to federal welfare laws in 1996, Congress cut benefits to legal
immigrants until they obtained citizenship, lived in the United States for five
years or worked here for 10 years.

The U.S. Senate on Tuesday passed a bill that would restore food stamps for
250,000 immigrants.

The Wisconsin bill contains a provision that, if Congress restores the funding
to certain categories of immigrants, state food-stamp funding would apply to the
remaining immigrant population.

That provision goes beyond what the federal government provides, which is why
Rep. Sheryl Albers, R-Westfield, said she voted against the bill.

She said counties have access to welfare funding to provide assistance to
immigrants.

"No county has come in and asked for more money," Albers said.

Gov. Tommy Thompson added the proposal to the Legislature's special session.

The finance committee also passed an amendment that would allow agencies that
administer welfare benefits to establish food banks for immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 27, 1998 Wednesday

IMMIGRATION GATEWAY ELLIS ISLAND IS MOSTLY IN NEW JERSEY, COURT RULES

BYLINE: Laurie Asseo, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 224 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a decision sure to pierce the Big Apple to its core, the Supreme Court ruled
Tuesday that Ellis Island - historic gateway for millions of immigrants - is
mainly in New Jersey.

Most of the island in New York Harbor from now on must be considered Ellis
Island, N.J., the high court ruled 6-3 in resolving a border dispute between New
Jersey and New York.

"What the Supreme Court has done is said unequivocally that this island is
shared - it was New York and New Jersey," New Jersey Gov. Christie Whitman said
from the Supreme Court steps.

New Jersey Attorney General Peter Verniero said the dispute "has historic
ramifications because it is a national treasure that now New Jersey can rightly
lay some claim to."

For New York, which already lost the Giants and Jets football teams to its
neighboring state, it was a new indignity.

New York Attorney General Dennis Vacco was unbowed, saying, "For over 100 years,
Ellis Island stood as a beacon of opportunity, equality and freedom that is the
promise of America. ... New Jersey's attempts to turn that tradition and history
into a mere territorial dispute between the states cannot erase that truth."

At stake was more pride than money. The federal government actually owns Ellis
Island, which was the first American soil walked upon by most immigrants between
1892 and 1954.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 16, 1998 Tuesday

LACK OF MONEY TO CLOSE U'S REFUGEE STUDIES CENTER

BYLINE: FROM STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 272 words


The University of Minnesota's Refugee Studies Center has run out of money and
will close at the end of June.

The center, which was created in response to the large influx of Southeast Asian
immigrants to Minnesota, has failed to develop a strong research program that
generates the money to continue, said Michael Metcalf, who oversees the center
as director of the Institute of International Studies and Programs.

"We (the institute) took it on as an at-risk project with the understanding that
it would seek outside funding; the center has been unsuccessful in doing that,"
he said.

In the meantime, university officials are trying to find another place to house
the center's research collection on refugees.

Immigrant advocacy groups have mounted a letter-writing campaign to try to save
the center.

"When I first heard it was closing, I was shocked," said Hean Her, executive
director of the Council on Asian-Pacific Minnesotans. "The center over the years
has worked to build a relationship with the refugee community, and it has given
voice to the needs of the community."

Since its beginning in 1980, the center has grown to encompass the study of
refugees from Africa, Central America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and other
refugees from Asia.

"In the mind of the Hmong, this is the only place in the state of Minnesota
where they can come and find materials to trace their history and culture," said
Masami Suga, a program associate at the center. "It is especially significant
for Hmong people who came here very young, or who were born here, and may not
know much about their history in Laos."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 3, 1998 Friday

IMMIGRANT OVERFLOW;
TURKS AND CAICOS, A GROUP OF ABOUT 30 ISLANDS SOUTHEAST OF MIAMI, HAS BECOME A
TOP DESTINATION FOR HAITIAN IMMIGRANTS. THE INFLUX, THOUGH, HAS BEEN A SOURCE OF
TROUBLE FOR BOTH NATIVES OF THE ISLAND AND THE IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: Jacqueline Charles, KNIGHT RIDDER FOREIGN SERVICE

SECTION: MAIN; Beyond the Headlines; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 983 words

DATELINE: PROVIDENCIALES, TURKS AND CAICOS


A crafty boat captain convinces a group of Haitians he can take them to
prosperity in Miami for anywhere between $1,000 and $2,000.

"Welcome to Miami," he shouts as the boat docks on these sun-bleached shores.

Soon the passengers will find out it's not Miami but Turks and Caicos, a group
of about 30 islands about 600 miles southeast of Miami and at the end of the
Bahamian archipelago.

John James, the islands' director of immigration, says the scheme - repeated
almost monthly - is putting an extraordinary strain on this British dependency.

"We see illegal Haitian immigrants in the hundreds," he said.

Last week, six Haitians drowned when their cramped boat capsized after Turks and
Caicos police fired several warning shots. The shooting remains under
investigation, but it underscored the souring attitude toward Haitian
immigrants.

"This is only the tip of the iceberg," said W. Blythe Duncanson, publisher and
editor of the Turks & Caicos News, a weekly in Providenciales, one of the
largest islands in the chain. "Paradise is no longer Nassau and Miami. Paradise
is just across the waters to Providenciales."

The islands have always been a magnet for immigrants from Haiti and the
Dominican Republic, but in the past eight years, the numbers of Haitians making
the crossing have grown dramatically, according to island officials.

James and other officials attribute the increased migration to political and
economic instability in Haiti, tighter controls by the United States and the
Bahamas, and the perception Providenciales is a bastion for jobs. The island,
whose chief industry traditionally had been fishing, has recently become a mecca
for Canadian and European tourists. That has led to a building boom.

With the growing immigrant influx, problems have multiplied - and the Haitians
themselves have felt the brunt of those.

Classrooms are so crowded some Haitian children are being turned away. The three
settlements on the island are overflowing with makeshift shacks. Some of the
illegal immigrants live in the bushes, cutting down trees for coal and selling
them to make a buck.

James says there are no official figures for the Haitian population of the
islands. The 1990 census counted 12,350 people in the Turks and Caicos, but that
number did not account for illegal immigrants.

Although no official count has taken place since then, government officials
estimate today's population in the seven inhabited islands is between 18,000 and
23,000. They say half of those are Turks Islanders and the others noncitizens.

This year alone, the government expects to spend $107,000 to repatriate Haitians
- a pittance by U.S. standards, but big money in the Turks and Caicos.

"They are a drain on the government resources," James said. "They have to
utilize our medical facilities, our schools and other resources."

Last year, the Turks and Caicos government spent more than $700,000 as part of
an international migration program to round up and repatriate Haitians. The
program was financed by the British, United States, and Turks and Caicos
governments.

About 2,600 Haitians were sent back before the program ended in April.
Undocumented workers were rounded up everywhere - in their homes, in the streets
- and provided with a small allowance and toiletries once they arrived back in
Haiti to help them get situated.

For the most part, officials regard the program, run by the International
Organization for Migration, as a success. They are now exploring new methods for
fighting the problem.

"Nobody is trying to kid himself the IOM program solved the illegal
immigration," said Nigel Taylor, assistant to Turks Island Gov. John Kelly. "We
need to continue to look at ways in which we can try to deal with the problem."

An airplane, provided by the British government and operated by a Royal Air
Force pilot, is now being used to monitor the seas for illegal immigrants. The
British government has also provided the island with a naval officer to assist
in marine operations.

But natives believe it's not enough.

No one disputes the fact they have benefited from the flow of Haitians to the
island. The Haitians do the jobs natives won't do.

"Everybody here exploits the Haitians. Instead of using a Turks Islander, they
turn around and use a Haitian who will work for a lower salary. That's the way
it is," said Godfrey Been, who manages a heavy machinery rental firm that
provides Haitian workers with a place to live in exchange for lower wages.

The fear of deportation keeps the Haitians from complaining - and the ability to
work, even for meager pay, continues to fuel the migration.

After two years in Providenciales, Michael Charles, 27, lost his job as an
airport baggage handler last year and was returned to Haiti. He spent nine
months in Cap-Haitien before being allowed to return.

While there, however, Charles said he did his best to discourage others from
coming.

"People see you with a T-shirt, but they don't know the effort you went through
or what you had to do to get the T-shirt," he said. "You tell them life is hard,
but they don't believe you. They think you are trying to keep them from
something."

Charleus Michel, 25, refused to let the stories dissuade him. He left Haiti a
year ago and now works at South Dock, a government port on Providenciales. He
rises at the crack of dawn and walks about an hour and a half every day to do
his job - counting concrete blocks in the scalding sun.

With the $200 he gets paid a week, he supports himself and three children back
in Haiti.

He acknowledges life isn't what he pictured. But it's better than in Haiti. He
can work. The occasional insults, the low pay, the waning acceptance - these are
the crosses he must bear, he said, to get to his final destination.

"I'm passing through," Michel said. "I want to go to Miami."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: David Bergman, Knight Ridder Tribune
(1) Charleus Michel, 25, works at the South Dock, a government port on
Providenciales in the Turks and Caicos islands. Like many Haitian
immigrants, Michel makes low wages: $200 a week. But the islands are
just temporary for him. "I'm passing through," Michel says. "I want
to go to Miami."
(2) Plywood shacks have re-emerged in Providenciales settlements that
were bulldozed in 1996. The population of the islands is estimated at
23,000, up from 12,350 in 1990, because of Haitian immigration. The
government will spend $107,000 this year to repatriate immigrants.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 7, 1998 Tuesday

HISTORY LESSON;
JAPANESE SOLDIER YOSHIO SHINOZUKA HELPED CONDUCT BIOLOGICAL EXPERIMENTS ON
CHINESE PRISONERS. NOW, HE STRUGGLES TO REVEAL THE "INHUMAN ACTS," KNOWING THAT
THE JAPANESE ARE RELUCTANT TO TALK, AND SUSPECTING VARIOUS GOVERNMENTS WANT TO
KEEP SILENCE TOO.

BYLINE: MICHAEL ZIELENZIGER, Knight Ridder Foreign Service

SECTION: MAIN; Beyond the Headlines; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 959 words

DATELINE: YOKAICHIBA, JAPAN


When Yoshio Shinozuka boarded a flight from Tokyo to Chicago last month, he was
planning to tell Americans about "the inhuman acts" he helped carry out as a
member of the Japanese Imperial Army's infamous Unit 731, which tried to infect
Chinese civilians with typhus and bubonic plague and conducted biological
experiments on Chinese prisoners of war.

But when Shinozuka, 74, shuffled to the head of the immigration line at O'Hare
Airport and handed over his Japanese passport, U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service officers greeted him harshly.

"They scanned my passport on a computer," the 74-year-old, white-haired former
soldier recalled Wednesday. "There was a beep and they took me to another room."
Within hours, he was back on a plane to Tokyo, the first Japanese to be barred
from entering the United States for "crimes against humanity."

In an interview at the Buddhist temple he helps manage, the ex-soldier said the
Justice Department's decision will obstruct efforts to reveal the full extent of
Japanese brutality during World War II - brutality that official Japan still
denies.

The Justice Department's "watch list," which identifies war criminals barred
from entering the United States, "is a tool to distort and cover up the reality
of what really happened," Shinozuka charged, as he sat on a straw mat on the
floor of a rural temple about 60 miles west of Tokyo.

He said he suspects the Japanese and American governments made a deal to keep
him out of America because high-ranking officers in his unit, including
commanding officer Shiro Ishii, were never prosecuted after the war. In previous
years, he said, prominent doctors and politicians who served with Unit 731
entered the United States regularly.

Saburo Ienaga, a professor of Japanese history who has battled with mixed
success to get Japanese high school textbooks to include the facts of the
country's conduct in World War II, said he suspects the U.S. government fears
Shinozuka's testimony would embarrass American officials.

"The U.S. released members of Unit 731 after the war in order to get the
know-how of biological weapons," Ienaga said in an interview. "Even General
Ishii was not prosecuted at the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal. So it is possible
that if the U.S. allows Shinozuka in and lets him speak, he will cause them
problems ... not because of what he did, but because of what he knows."

A Justice Department official, however, said the watch list is to keep war
criminals out of the United States, not to prevent Americans from learning the
truth about Japanese or German war crimes.

"We are adamant that war criminals will not be allowed into the United States,"
said John Russell, a Justice Department spokesman. "There are facilities for
them to send a message into the United States either through satellite or
through video equipment. There is no need for them to come to the United
States."

The Justice Department barred Shinozuka as a result of a 1996 decision to add 16
suspected Japanese war criminals to the list, which already contained names of
more than 60,000 Nazi war criminals. The list was created by an act of Congress
during the 1970s. Last year, 17 more Japanese were added.

Most Japanese on the list are scientists or doctors who were attached to Unit
731. Others are suspected of involvement in the Imperial Army's procurement of
sex slaves - euphemistically referred to as "comfort women" - throughout Asia.

But Shinozuka argued that those like himself who want to tell the truth about
war crimes should not be on the watch list. He and 86-year-old Shiro Azuma, a
witness to the Japanese Army's brutal 1937 occupation of the Chinese city of
Nanking, had planned to discuss their wartime activities as part of an exhibit
sponsored by the San Francisco-based Global Alliance for Preserving the History
of World War II. But Azuma got a severe cold and abandoned his plan to go
abroad. The exhibit leaves this week for New York; Washington; Vancouver,
British Columbia; and San Francisco.

Shinozuka also said he fears that being barred from the United States will
damage his credibility as a witness for the plaintiffs in a lawsuit filed in a
Tokyo court last year by 108 Chinese, seeking compensation for damages inflicted
by Japanese germ warfare attacks in 1940.

Asia scholars estimate that more than 15 million civilians died in China alone
as a result of barbarism and neglect during the 14-year Japanese occupation that
began with the invasion of Manchuria in 1931.

In 1939, at age 16, Shinozuka enlisted in the Imperial Japanese Army and was
ordered to Harbin, in Japanese-controlled Manchuria. He was assigned to a
laboratory where biological warfare agents, including cholera, typhus and deadly
viruses, were being mass-produced.

Later, he helped breed fleas that were infected with bubonic plague. He worked
on mass-producing anthrax, typhoid and other deadly germs that the Japanese
sprayed on Chinese civilians from airplanes.

He also has testified to participating in at least five live autopsies, in which
Chinese soldiers were vivisected to see if they had been infected with the
plague. Each organ was methodically excised while a doctor listened to the
patient's heartbeat.

"At the time the war was being fought, I had no idea I was a war criminal, but I
knew I was part of a secret unit," Shinozuka said. "I figured if a person can be
shot with one bullet, what's wrong with using this person's body as an
experiment for developing medical industries? Besides, I had been taught in
school that the emperor is the son of God and that we are different from other
Asians. Whatever orders we received from commanders of Unit 731 we followed,
because they were imperial orders."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1 Photo: Michael Zielenziger, Knight Ridder Tribune
Yoshio Shinozuka pauses near the black monument Japanese veterans have
erected near Shinozuka's temple as a way of apologizing for their
crimes against Chinese civilians during World War II.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 8, 1998 Wednesday

IMMIGRATION IS AN ASSET, NOT A DRAIN, STUDY FINDS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 119 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigrants contribute more to American society than they cost, paying $133
billion in federal, state and local taxes last year, two pro-immigrant
organizations said in a study issued Tuesday. "Immigrants are a fiscal bargain
to American taxpayers," the study's author, Stephen Moore, an economist at the
libertarian Cato Institute think tank, said at a Capitol Hill news conference.
As is invariably the case in the highly polarized immigration debate, the
conclusions were immediately challenged by organizations that view the inflow of
foreigners in a far less positive light. Most do agree, however, that in an $8.3
trillion economy, the net effects, whether positive or negative, are slight.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 9, 1998 Sunday

GROUPS SAY INS POLICIES ARE DISCRIMINATORY;
RECENT RAIDS TARGET HISPANICS, THEY SAY

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 501 words


Policies of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service have come under fire
from groups that say recent INS raids in Minneapolis city parks, business and
homes discriminate against Hispanics.

The groups - which include the St. Paul Ecumenical Alliance of Churches,
Interfaith Action of Minneapolis and Twin Cities Community in Solidarity with
the People of El Salvador - say the increased INS presence has resulted in more
harassment and abuse.

Curtis Aljets, INS district director, called the complaints a "campaign of
misinformation."

Protesters, who held a march and rally Saturday, say fathers are being deported
without being able to say goodbye to their families; people are detained if they
can't prove they are U.S. citizens or permanent residents, only to be released
days later; and people are being asked to sign deportation documents they do not
understand because they are written in English.

On May 27, several people were arrested when INS agents joined Minneapolis park
police officers in sweeps in Loring, Peavey and Holmes parks.

Jesse Huerta, an organizer for Interfaith Action, said protesters want the INS
to provide a telephone line with a bilingual operator in the INS detention
center and a direct line to the INS investigation department to help relatives
locate deportees.

They also want the INS to extend its office hours, hire bilingual staff members,
translate the waiver of rights into Spanish and meet quarterly with an
immigration committee.

"We're experiencing a new trend of immigrant-bashing," said Sal Miranda of
Interfaith Action. "We're being targeted. We're the focus of this aggressive
hunt for the undocumented. Our position is that we want to preserve immigrant
families."

Aljets, however, said some complaints are unfounded. He said the INS is allowed
to visit public places, but agents aren't allowed to enter schools and churches
and must have warrants to enter homes. He said he was unaware of any incidents
of abuse or harassment by INS officials.

When the agency raids businesses, Aljets said, it does so because it has reason
to believe, based on tips, that large numbers of undocumented residents are
working there.

Within a few weeks, the INS plans to align its database with those of
law-enforcement agencies throughout its St. Paul district, which includes
Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota. That means that whenever anyone from
another country is arrested, names and other information will be forwarded to
the INS.

Aljets also said the INS has attempted to meet some of the demands. It installed
telephone lines in cells to allow people to call toll-free numbers to embassies
and other agencies and collect to relatives and friends.

He said staff members in the detention center speak Spanish, but said the number
of Hispanics applying for benefits doesn't warrant the hiring of
Spanish-speaking staff members in the processing area.

He noted that other immigrant groups also must bring their own translators.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            September 4, 1998 Friday

TEXAS IMMIGRANTS DEPORTED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 82 words

DATELINE: HARLINGEN, TEXAS


More than 500 immigrants in Texas have been rounded up for deportation in a
crackdown on those with three or more drunken driving convictions. The
immigrants - most of them legal permanent residents, most of them from Mexico -
were arrested beginning in early August in what was called Operation Last Call.
The arrests were made under the 1996 U.S. immigration reform law, which allows
deportation for an aggravated felony. In Texas, a third drunken driving
conviction is a felony.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 5, 1998 Saturday

NEW BEGINNINGS;
200 MINNESOTANS GET U.S. CITIZENSHIP AT STATE FAIR RITE

BYLINE: Julio Ojeda-Zapata, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 654 words


It was an Ellis Island moment.

Sunlight streamed through soaring windows into a large Minnesota State Fair
auditorium jammed with more than 200 immigrants from more than 50 countries,
along with hundreds of relatives and friends.

Even the absence of air conditioning was Ellis Island-like. My Colombian-born
wife fidgeted with discomfort as she cuddled our little space heater, now
7-months-old.

More aggravation loomed, courtesy of yours truly.

But at that moment, my sweetheart was delighted to be ending her decade-long
journey to U.S. citizenship, which has involved endless paperwork and long
waits.

"Some of you got tired of standing in immigration lines," said Curtis Aljets,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service's district director for Minnesota,
with an empathetic smile. "Well, you don't have to stand in any immigration
lines anymore."

Amen, brother.

Friday's swearing-in ceremony for freshly minted U.S. citizens was special. Many
such rituals take place in drab government facilities such as the federal
courthouses in the Twin Cities' two downtowns.

But once a year, a State Fair facility becomes a temporary courtroom for a mass
oath-of-citizenship event. The first ceremony at the fair's bandshell in 1995
drew 864 participants and thousands of onlookers in what was then the largest
such rite in Minnesota history.

This year's venue, the huge 4-H building, seemed appropriate because of its
U.S.-kitsch decor, including a homemade banner decorated with a picture of a
lamb that exhorted, "Don't be 'baaa'-shful. Join 4-H."

U.S. District Court Judge Richard Kyle, flanked by U.S. marshals on the
auditorium stage, told attendees he was thrilled with "the pleasant assignment
of presiding over this special occasion.

"I was born 10 miles from here," Kyle observed, "so the trip from downtown (St.
Paul) to the fairgrounds is a big deal for me. I marvel at what all of you have
gone through, the miles getting from there to here and the many things you left
behind.

"You have my deep admiration," the judge said.

Then, after apologizing for a citizenship oath that "is not a short one, it's
fairly lengthy, so bear with me," Kyle led attendees to their new lives.

I marveled at the racial and cultural diversity in the hall, something that is
difficult to find in a rather homogenous Minnesota. Attendees sported all manner
of colorful ethnic garb along with suits and ties, jeans and untucked
shirttails, St. Paul Saints T-shirts and Chicago Cubs caps.

Some had come a long way. Jose Esquivel, a native of Mexico who works as a
forklift operator, drove 90 minutes from his Owatonna home.

"I didn't imagine so many people would come," marveled Esquivel, who was
resplendent in his khaki slacks and white polo shirt.

My wife and I thrilled at the "roll call of nations" and watched for other
Colombians when an INS official called that country's name. Four stood, only
pebble-tosses away!

We chatted with one Colombian woman and her americano husband and made
delightful discoveries. The man and I had studied together at an
outstate-Minnesota college (he remembered me, in fact) while the two women had
attended the same Twin Cities college.

I was so engrossed with this exchange that, in a soon-to-be-legendary display of
marital stupidity, I misplaced my wife's citizenship documents. Without them,
she would be unable to get a U.S. passport until she obtained new papers.

What was that about long immigration lines, again?

Fortunately, the documents turned up at the 4-H building's main office, where
alert workers were preparing to telephone us.

At last, after many years, my wife has all the privileges of being a citizen of
this country.

She can vote in presidential elections - I've jokingly warned her not to cancel
out my vote - or even run for elected office.

She also has a whopper of a story to tell at parties, while her husband cringes.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: Pioneer Press Photos by Joe Oden
1) Eva Kaiser, 97, of Cambridge, Minn., on Friday takes the Oath of
Allegiance to the United States of American under the direction of
Judge Richard H. Kyle at the 4-H building of the Minnesota State Fair.
Kaiser is from the former Yugoslavia.
2) Bose Ayo, 70, of Minneapolis and formerly of Nigeria, listens to
the speaker after taking the oath. Bose was one of 18 people over the
age of 70 sworn in today from 56 countries.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 7, 1998 Wednesday

IMMIGRANTS AFFECT HOUSE SEATS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 98 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The influx of immigrants is significantly affecting which states will come out
ahead in the redistribution of House seats, according to a study released
Tuesday. The Center for Immigration Studies said the concentration of new
immigrants in just a few states resulted in six states losing House seats after
the 1990 census. It predicted that seven more would lose seats after the 2000
census. That is a "distortion of the political system in which seats are taken
away from citizens and reallocated in effect to noncitizens," said Mark
Krikorian, the center's executive director.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          November 25, 1998 Wednesday

DEPORTATION RULES CRITICIZED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration proposed rules Tuesday that immigrant advocates say
could trigger deportations of thousands of people to hurricane-ravaged Guatemala
and El Salvador and cripple a flow of private money from the United States to
disaster-stricken families. The groups say the Immigration and Naturalization
Service rules should be changed to give about 250,000 people from the two
Central American nations and some from former Soviet bloc countries blanket
approval to stay in the United States, provided they are of good "moral
character" and lived here before 1990.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 12, 1999 Friday

U.S.-MEXICO SUMMIT TO FOCUS ON DRUGS, IMMIGRATION;
CLINTON, ZEDILLO MEET THIS WEEKEND

BYLINE: Ricardo Sandoval, KNIGHT RIDDER FOREIGN SERVICE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Despite appearances, President Clinton is not heading to Mexico's sunny Yucatan
peninsula this weekend for a post-impeachment holiday.

He actually has serious work to do in Merida, the white-washed resort city where
he meets Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo on Monday for their seventh, and
perhaps most important, summit. The meeting, which may yield new agreements on
fighting drug traffickers and coping with immigration, could alter relations
between the United States and its troubled southern neighbor.

Since the Cold War, relations with Mexico have been a low priority for the White
House. But U.S. officials are increasingly worried about the drug trafficking
and sputtering economy that bedevil Mexico and directly affect the United
States.

"U.S. stakes in Mexico are tremendous," said Richard Haass, foreign policy
director at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank. "U.S., Mexican
and Canadian relations, overall, are good. There are few worries in this
neighborhood, and that allows the United States to pay attention to other
problems. But imagine Mexico if it were an unstable, failed state."

Despite its problems, Mexico is now the second-most important U.S. trade
partner. That's why Clinton's trip - part of a recent agreement with Zedillo to
meet twice a year - signals a shift in perspective for U.S. leaders.

"Maybe the trip means Mexico will be getting the foreign policy respect it
deserves," Haass said.

White House and Mexican officials have been hammering out language on as many as
three agreements that could surface from the Clinton-Zedillo meeting.

Most important is a new joint effort to fight drug-related violence along the
long U.S.-Mexico border. The plan is based on a generally successful border
partnership between police in San Diego and Tijuana.

Recent talks also have produced a deal aimed at preparing for decisive responses
to natural disasters - such as fires in Mexico and Hurricane Mitch in Central
America - to head off fresh waves of U.S.-bound migration.

A third pact may focus more U.S. attention on its border patrol and growing
allegations of mistreatment of migrants, according to Juan Rebolledo, Mexico's
deputy foreign minister and its point man on U.S. relations.

For all its promise, the latest Clinton-Zedillo summit comes at a time of
strained relations between the neighbors.

U.S. officials blame Mexico for the cheap crack cocaine and heroin flooding U.S.
inner cities and the methamphetamines spreading in other communities. And
although Mexican workers are the backbone of the U.S. hotel, restaurant and farm
sectors, they remain lightning rods for those concerned with the taxpayer
burdens caused by low-paid migrants.

Mexicans still fume that the so-called Casablanca money-laundering sting, which
last year netted several Mexican bankers tied to drug traffickers, violated
Mexico's sovereignty, because U.S. law enforcement operated inside their country
without its knowledge or consent. And Mexican officials blast U.S. lawmakers for
not doing more to stem the drug consumption that drives the illicit trade.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 21, 1999 Sunday

REACHING MIDDLE GROUND;
LOCAL HISPANIC LEADERS MET WITH INS OFFICIALS SATURDAY TO VOICE DEMANDS TO MAKE
THE IMMIGRATION PROCESS EASIER. THE GROUPS MADE SOME HEADWAY, BUT THE RESULTS
DIDN'T PLEASE EVERYONE.

BYLINE: Amy Mayron, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 619 words


Local Hispanic leaders got the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to
meet at least two of their demands Saturday and also got a pledge from the
federal agency to work with them on some of the others.

William Yeats, a Washington representative of the federal agency, said that a
Spanish-speaking employee would be assigned to the Minnesota district office in
Bloomington. Yeats, an acting deputy associate commissioner, also said a
national telephone information hot line - scheduled to start within 18 months -
will have bilingual operators.

In the past year, local Hispanic leaders and others have pushed lawmakers and
INS officials to make the immigration process easier for noncitizens. They made
several complaints about inadequate service and came up with various demands.
Aside from the hiring of a Spanish-speaking receptionist at the district office
in Bloomington, and bilingual national phone line, the group also is seeking:

longer office hours;

a promise that the INS will contact labor unions before they raid a workplace;

to have INS forms available at public places throughout the area; and

a public phone line for families and friends to contact illegal immigrants who
have been detained by the INS.

After the local group had trouble getting the INS to respond, U.S. Sen. Paul
Wellstone, D-Minn., arranged for Saturday's meeting. At first, Yeats met with a
small group of Hispanic leaders and others, including Wellstone. Then he spoke
to a larger, public gathering of about 350 people in South Minneapolis.

Yeats said he is working with local district director Curtis Aljets about the
possibility of extended office hours or providing Saturday service. He also said
the INS is considering an expansion of services at a new satellite office on
University Avenue in St. Paul.

Aljets said immigration forms could be distributed to most public places if
local leaders can provide him with a list of places that will allow the forms to
be available.

Yeats welcomed communication between the INS and labor unions but could not
promise a warning about workplace raids. He also said he would talk with local
INS officials about the feasibility of creating a phone line where families can
call to check on the status of family members who have been detained.

The approximately 20 people who attended the noon meeting with Yeats in Holy
Rosary Catholic Church, included local labor and immigration lawyers, Hispanic
leaders and INS officials.

Yeats came away satisfied with Saturday's talks.

"We made some real progress," Yeats said. "I'm not used to this kind of forum.
It was so structured. For me, it's about learning. They look at me as having
definitive answers, and it's not that easy."

However, at least one of the negotiators was not pleased with the progress.

"I'm very frustrated because I thought we were going to accomplish more than we
did," said the Rev. Juan Fernandez of Interfaith Action and the St. Paul
Ecumenical Alliance of Churches. "I can't go out and say, 'Just wait, just
wait."'

At a Saturday afternoon public meeting attended by about 350 people, the crowd
cheered and reacted enthusiastically when Fernandez and others relayed the
results of the noon talks.

Mexican citizen Armando Blas-Garcia, who said he has a conflict with the INS
about the legal status of his two children, was pleased. "I think it was a grand
victory," he said of Saturday's events. "This is a country of opportunity. It is
my dream for my daughters to grow up and be professionals in this country."

Another meeting is planned for April to talk about issues that remain
unresolved.

Amy Mayron can be reached at amayron@pioneerpress.com or at (612) 338-6872.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: JEAN PIERI, PIONEER PRESS
1) Mexican citizen Armando Blas-Garcia and his wife Maria Luisa German
Flores shared their struggles with the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service about the legal status of their two children at
a meeting at Holy Rosary Catholic Church in Minneapolis. Blas-Garcia,
who has a work permit, said: "This is a country of opportunity. It is
my dream for my daughters to grow up and be professionals in this
country."
2) A crowd of about 350 turned out to hear William Yeats of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service at Holy Rosary Catholic Church
in Minneapolis.
Photo
[William Yeats]

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 4, 1999 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

A MOTHER'S DILEMMA;
AS THE TWIN CITIES BECOME HOME TO MORE IMMIGRANT WOMEN, SOME OF THEIR MOST
PERSONAL SORROWS - SUCH AS FEMALE CIRCUMCISION - ARE BECOMING MORE PUBLIC.

BYLINE: Kay Harvey, Staff Writer

SECTION: EXPRESS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 2331 words


Some call it "cutting the rose."

The term is a veiled reference to a widespread practice of paring away parts of
a girl's genitals - usually in crude conditions and without anesthesia - to
render her "clean" in her culture's eyes.

Practiced in many African, Middle Eastern and Southeast Asian countries, the
procedure that affects an estimated 130 million of the world's women is more
often called female circumcision. A growing number of people who advocate
against it use a harsher term - female genital mutilation.

With the recent influx to Minnesota of thousands of African immigrants, the
practice is no longer a concern that looms half a world away. Now, a group of
Twin Cities women is using grass-roots theater to help bring the issue home.

"My pure and innocent daughter, I will not have you suffer the same pain and
suffering that I have suffered," a woman's voice calls. "But how can I prevent
it?"

The voice is a female actor's in a play and puppet show to be staged Saturday
during a workshop as part of International Women's Day on the University of
Minnesota's St. Paul campus. Participants will be challenged to answer her
perplexing question.

"We're not trying to interfere in anyone else's culture," says Marilyn Cuneo,
who heads the play's artistic crew. "And we don't plan to come to a conclusion.
But we do want to educate, to make people aware of what's going on. This is not
something occurring way over there, but in our own community."

Insome traditions' belief, the clitoris is an "impure organ" that can lead women
into promiscuity. Altering or removing it, which diminishes or kills sexual
pleasure, is a rite of passage to womanhood often required for marriage and
community acceptance. Infibulation, the most radical form of circumcision,
includes sewing shut the labia, or outer genital skin, leaving one opening
through which both urine and menstrual blood must flow. The practice is believed
to increase male sexual pleasure and promote marital fidelity.

A mother must choose her young daughter's fate: rejection by her culture or the
agony of crude surgery without pain-killers and risk of after-effects
circumcised women know too well.

"In the play, the woman is relating her own story, because that's the way this
all began, with a story submitted to us by two immigrant women," says Cuneo, of
Minneapolis. She is producing it with other members of the Women's International
League for Peace and Freedom, one of more than 50 sponsors of the Saturday
event.

The story was written by Selamawit Yohannes and Purna Kumari Gurung,
20-something women who live and work in the Twin Cities. Yohannes is a native of
Ethiopia, where 90 percent of women are circumcised. Gurung came here from
Nepal. The play's production crew hopes to repeat the 25-minute presentation and
a discussion in other community settings.

The quandary the mother faces - whether to have her daughter circumcised - is a
complex issue colored by traditional, medical and women's rights perspectives.
The issue has been compared to male circumcision.

"But we are making a distinction, " Cuneo says. "Female circumcision is like
cutting off the penis."

Male circumcision in this country was declared unnecessary earlier this week by
the American Academy of Pediatricians.

In the U.S. immigrant community, an estimated 160,000 girls and women have been
subjected to some form of female circumcision or are at risk of it, according to
a recent report from the U.S. Health and Human Services Department. Because the
practice is shrouded in secrecy and against the law, there is little
documentation of its occurrence in this country. Twin Cities researchers say
they have heard second- and third-hand accounts of women taking their daughters
to Africa, Europe or Toronto, where there is a large Somali population, for
circumcision.

A 1994 Minnesota law bans female circumcision except for medical reasons. It
sprung up after a young immigrant girl was taken to a Twin Cities hospital with
severe bleeding after being circumcised, according to information from the
office of Sen. Ellen Anderson, DFL-St. Paul, the law's author.

"People aren't going to talk about female genital mutilation here, where it's
illegal," says Yohannes, who researched the practice as part of her college
studies. "That's one of the reasons it's going to be hard to enforce the law,
because people will do it undercover. The main issue is not that it prevents
sexual pleasure, but that kids are hurt and can die from it. So the best thing
to do is to educate people about the dangers."

Clash of cultures

The most common form of female circumcision is clitorectomy, removal of all or
part of the clitoris, a procedure that usually leaves a woman unable to achieve
orgasm. In a more invasive procedure, all or part of the inner labia also is
removed.

Much more radical is infibulation, which includes sewing the outer labia
together, leaving a single, small opening - often the size of a straw - through
which urine and menstrual blood must pass. The practice leads to bladder and
kidney infections, causes pain during menstruation and sexual intercourse and
heightens pain during childbirth.

Infibulation is done on nine out of 10 women in Somalia, from where about 12,000
people have recently immigrated to the Twin Cities.

As part of a 1997 study for the Urban Coalition, registered nurse and study
author Keyah Davis of St. Paul met with 30 to 50 Somalian women whose job it has
been to perform circumcision.

"They were angry," Davis says. "This is their culture, they said. You can write
this law, but it doesn't stop us from circumcising our daughters if we want them
circumcised."

Some Somalian women told Davis that when they returned to Africa to visit,
family members abducted their uncircumcised teens and infibulated against them
against their parents' wishes. Many immigrant women wrongly assume that
circumcision is dictated by Muslim religion.

"It really is a process of male power and control that has been turned over to
female gatekeepers," Davis says.

Infibulation guarantees a woman's virginity and, when a girl is married, the
small opening in a girl's outer labia is enlarged, often to her husband's
specifications. But most immigrants now understand that infibulation is not
necessary for a woman to be marriageable in America, she says.

"Some of these men are having sex with American women. And only the most
battered American woman would allow herself to be infibulated."

An immigrant woman who is isolated from the community is more likely to subject
her child to circumcision, Davis says. Women who work outside the home often
change their perspective on female circumcision fairly quickly.

"It is not the custom in America. It's frowned upon. A lot of people see this as
a practice of violence. Once women are heavily exposed to that opinion, most
make the decision to set circumcision aside."

Twin Cities doctors now face the question of resuturing Somalian women after
they give birth in metropolitan-area hospitals. Davis' research indicates that
most doctors comply with a patient's wishes, she says.

Karima Bushnell, an international researcher and trainer who also has researched
female circumcision, says some doctors have been reluctant. "But how can you do
transgender surgery for one person and not do this for another?" Bushnell asks.

In the Urban Coalition study, health professionals at 31 Twin Cities clinics
reported treating immigrant women and girls - some as young as 12 - with
complications of female circumcision.

The age at which girls are circumcised varies widely, says Agitu Wodijo, a
registered nurse from Ethiopia and founder of the Minneapolis-based
International Self-Reliance Agency for Women.

"It is done on infants and girls 5 or 6, or sometimes 12 or 13," Wodijo says.
"Some do it on marriage day. Some believe that without circumcision, girls will
be hypersexual and that will spoil a lot of their lives. Without it, some don't
get acceptance for marriage. Some nurses say it's mostly the women who support
female genital mutilation."

Wodijo opposes circumcision and has directed workshops in Ethiopia that train
midwives who make their livings doing circumcisions for other kinds of paying
jobs. Grass-roots movements have sprung up in many African countries to reduce
female circumcision.

Matter of choice

A native Minnesota woman who had a partial clitorectomy at age 6 on advice of
medical doctors adds an intriguing twist to a discussion hinged on the power of
cultural beliefs.

Her surgery was recommended, she says, because the size of her clitoris didn't
conform to a cultural norm.

"In this country, female circumcision is done because it doesn't pass a cosmetic
test," says Martha Coventry, 46, a Minneapolis writer. "But it is no less
culturally imposed."

The procedure, which doctors call inter-sex surgery, is often recommended for
girls - and sometimes boys - whose genitals appear ambiguous, neither perfectly
male or perfectly female. In Coventry's case, her clitoris extended a half-inch
outside her labia. When she was a child, no one told her why the surgery was
done, even when she asked.

She was left with a nagging, shameful feeling about her body that led her to
write a memoir centered on that experience. A publisher is considering the book
for publication. She advocates that children with ambiguous sex organs be
allowed to decide for themselves whether or not to have surgery when they are
old enough. Some medical doctors now agree, she says, that the psychological
toll of childhood inter-sex surgery exceeds that of growing up with a medically
defined genital imperfection.

"The most important thing is there's no need for this to be done to children,"
she says. "No one demands it, but the culture."

The larger female circumcision issue stemming from tribal tradition is part of
the U.N. Platform for Action derived from the Fourth World Conference on Women
in Beijing, China, in 1995. It is a subject on the table at meetings of people
concerned with women's rights around the world, says Cuneo of the play's
artistic crew.

"Since ancestral times, in silence, we have surrendered our bodies for society
to grow and prosper," says a voice in the women's play.

"But has no one stopped to consider the pain and suffering of girls and women of
our society?" another voice asks. "The moment has come to break the silence."
A little girl's story
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following text contains graphic material that may be
offensive to some readers.

It is an excerpt from the short story "I See Hope in Her Eyes," by two immigrant
women, Selamawit Yohannes and Purna Kumari Gurung. Their story has been adapted
as a play and puppet show to raise awareness of female genital mutilation.

The story is a fictionalized account of a 4-year-old girl's infibulation -
genital surgery without anesthesia to cut away her clitoris and inner labia and
sew the outer skin together, leaving one small opening for urine and menstrual
blood to pass. Infibulation is the most radical of various forms of circumcision
that have been performed on an estimated 130 million girls and women in various
parts of the world.< From 'I See Hope in Her Eyes'

"Are you ready to be a big girl?" the old woman whispered in my ear, and I
replied, "Yes." The woman started to undress me. At this point, I was a willing
participant as I hadn't the slightest clue what was going to happen.

"Then I heard the most terrifying noise, the sharpening of a knife. I felt the
woman touching my private part. ... Other village women who had gathered started
to chant and sing, and I could hear a drum beating in the background.

"Then I felt the knife slicing away at my flesh as I felt pain take over my
body, a pain so excruciating that tears started to well in my eyes. I opened my
mouth to scream, but the shock and surprise were too much. No sound came out. I
felt the old woman slicing again. I let out a terrifying scream that faded away
among the chanting and the drumming. I started to turn and twist, but to no
avail. The hands that held me down were too strong. "Don't scream, be strong.
Make your mama proud," one of the women said.

"I don't know how long this went on. All I could hear were my own screams and
cries for help: 'Mother, help me! Mother, help me!' By this time I was so
exhausted that I must have passed out. When I came to, I had been washed and my
legs tied together so I couldn't move. I saw the beaming village women telling
me that I was a real girl now and that they were proud of me. I looked for my
mother among the faces. She was looking down at me, and I could see the pain in
her eyes."

EVENT: "Women's Voices," the fourth annual celebration of International Women's
Day

WHEN: 9 a.m. to 3:15 p.m. Saturday; registration begins at 8:30 a.m.

WHERE: Student Center on University of Minnesota's St. Paul campus, 2017 Buford
Ave., St. Paul

COST: Free; donations are accepted to offset conference costs.

ABOUT THE EVENT: Sponsored by Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, Minnesota
Women's Foundation and more than 50 other women's organizations and agencies,
the event offers workshop sessions focusing on women's issues at home and around
the globe. They range from the challenges of immigrant women to girls'
self-esteem, women and girls in sports, safety, economic security and the
challenge of balancing work and family life.

ABOUT THE PROGRAM: A play and panel discussion open the program. At both 10:30
a.m. and 1 p.m., participants may attend any of 10 simultaneous workshop
sessions on various topics. A break at 11:40 a.m. will include arts performances
and breakout sessions for girls and women. Lunch may be purchased. A puppet and
mask performance will start at 2:25 p.m., and a call to action will end the
program.

Kay Harvey covers aging and family issues and can be reached at
kharvey@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5468.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 5, 1999

CORRECTION: Friday, March 5, 1999
A story in Thursday's Express section inferred that female circumcision
proliferates among Muslims. A cultural rather than religious tradition, it is
practiced by some Muslims but opposed by other Muslims in many parts of the
world. Christian and Jewish women also are subjected to it in some regions of
Africa, Southeast Asia and the Middle East.

GRAPHIC: Photo:Chris Polydoroff, Pioneer Press
A story by Selamawit Yohannes, left, and Purna Kumari Gurung has been
turned into a play about female circumcision.
Graphic:Pioneer Press Graphic
Female circumcision: Each year, about 2 million girls have their
genitals ritually altered, primarily in many nations of Africa.
[See microfilm for details]

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 10, 1999 Wednesday

TWIN CITIES ATTRACTS FEWER IMMIGRANTS OVER PAST 100 YEARS;
MIDWEST NOT A TOP DESTINATION FOR NEW ASIAN, LATINO ARRIVALS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 387 words


Over the past century, the number of immigrants choosing Minneapolis and St.
Paul as their new home has dropped dramatically, by national standards.

A hundred years ago, the percentage of people in Minneapolis and St. Paul who
were born in other countries was well over twice the national average: nearly 40
percent, compared with almost 15 percent in America as a whole.

In the 1990s, the number was under the national average, with only about a third
as many immigrants as Seattle and thousands fewer than cities such as Denver or
Portland, Ore.

A new historical analysis released Tuesday by the Census Bureau shows that 7.9
percent of the nation's residents in 1990 were born elsewhere. That's up from
the record low 4.7 percent recorded in 1970, but well short of the peak 14.8
percent recorded in 1890, the bureau reported. The report included information
from pioneer days to 1990.

Minnesota was a big draw when the immigrants were Swedish, Irish and German, but
other parts of the country are getting a much higher percentage of today's more
Asian and Latin American inflow, Census Bureau figures show.

Senior Census Bureau demographer Campbell Gibson, the report's principal author,
said that surveys nationally indicate that the number of foreign-born people in
America climbed by 6 million, from 19.8 million to 25.8 million, from 1990 to
1997. Hispanics and Asians were the driving force in that increase.

Six million is 100 times greater than the 60,000-person increase that
demographers estimate for Hispanics and Asians in Minnesota over the same
period.

"The Twin Cities are much like the rest of the Midwest," Gibson said.
"Foreign-born population peaked in the Midwest in 1890. You see the same pattern
in lots of Midwestern cities, even Chicago to some extent... The Midwest simply
hasn't been a major recipient of immigrants in the last generation: It's been
the South, the West, and a few other spots such as New York."

If it doesn't feel that way to those who live here, said University of Minnesota
historian Hyman Berman, that's because of the changing face of those who are now
arriving.

"Minneapolis may be only 6 percent foreign-born," he said, compared to 37
percent a century earlier, "but that 6 percent is quite a different 6 percent:
Asian, Hmong, Laotian, Latino."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 11, 1999 Thursday

YOUNG HMONG CAST HONORS THE PARENTS WHO GAVE THEM HOPE

BYLINE: Alan Bjerga, Staff Writer

SECTION: EXPRESS; Theater; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 774 words


When Kenny Lee takes the stage in front of his family Saturday, he'll be
nervous.

Nothing unusual about that.

What is unusual for Lee, the son of Hmong immigrants who plays the older Meng
Thao in "Hmong! The CIA's Secret Army," is that his family may be among his most
knowledgeable critics.

The play at the Great American History Theatre explores the "secret war" fought
by the Hmong under the direction of the CIA in Vietnam and the immigration to
America that resulted from it. And while Lee, a 19-year-old pre-med student at
Hamline University, has heard his family's sometimes painful stories, he has led
a very different life.

"I'm afraid my character is too Americanized," Lee said. "The older generation
is looking at me and how I move, and when I move, that might not be how my dad
would act."

Adapted from a screenplay by Lee Vang, "Hmong!" is the first full-length play
about the secret war and later immigration written by a Hmong playwright. Vang
began work on the play shortly after graduating from the University of Minnesota
in 1996, developing the stage production with former Pom Siab Hmong Theatre
director Jaime Meyer.

The play draws upon research and interviews to tell the story of Thao, who was
taken from his village at age 13 to fight Laotian and North Vietnamese troops.
Thao's abduction separates him from his childhood girlfriend, Pa Vang. The play
follows Thao and Vang as they steer through separation, war and eventual arrival
in St. Paul.

Lee Vang uses the love story, which is based on a true story, to explore the
disruption of Hmong communities in Laos during the 1960s that led to St. Paul's
Hmong community. "The love story and the political story, they go hand-in-hand,"
Vang said. "The emotional impact can't be separated from what was happening all
around."

Vang was born in Lung Cheng, the site of the CIA's secret base, in 1970, and
emigrated to the United States with her family in the winter of 1977-78.

Portraying her parents' generation can be challenging, Vang said, as many Hmong
are highly sensitive to how that period in their history is shown. "People ask,
'Why do you bring out our dirty laundry?"' Vang said. "Because if you don't wash
it, it's going to stink. We should talk about all sides - the polygamy, how the
soldiers were treated, how we struggled coming here. It's very painful. But we
can't be silent."

"Hmong!" is staged in a "dirty, jungle atmosphere," Vang said. Music expresses
the changes in Hmong culture brought about by the war. Traditional sounds
introduce the play (the Beatles accompany CIA agents), and by the end of the
production, Western-style pop music performed by Hmong artists shows
assimilation under way.

Many lines spoken in English are repeated in Hmong - the repetition occurs so
quickly, says artistic director Ron Peluso, "you aren't even aware it happens."

Peluso volunteered to co-direct "Hmong!" with Vang because of how it tells the
story of one of Minnesota's newest communities. "Most of us are the descendants
of immigrants," he said. "I think there's much more we have in common than we
have apart."

Peluso was struck by the courage shown in the play. "I don't think people are
naturally born courageous," he said. "But these people are doing whatever they
can to get through this maze of war and separation and confusion ... and it can
be heartbreaking."

The lesson isn't lost on members of the predominantly Hmong cast, many of them
born after their parents arrived in the United States. "I know that a lot of the
people in my generation don't have the experience our parents went through,"
said Como Park Senior High sophomore Chy Nou Lee. "Like me, I had no idea what
the Vietnam War was, how it got started."

"When I talk to kids who were born here or grew up here, I ask them, 'Where do
you come from?"' said Cy Thao, who at 27 is one of the older cast members.

"Sometimes they don't really know, and they don't know what happened. I tell
them this war happened to your parents. Don't take them for granted. They might
not speak English, but they've been through a lot. They gave their whole lives
just so their kids could be here. Give them some respect."

Respect isn't a problem for Kenny Lee. Nervousness is. "This play is a good
experience," he said. "This won't only open up the Hmong story to a mainstream
audience, but also to the children."

And the parents, he adds. The knowledgeable parents who, chronicled onstage for
the first time, might be nervous themselves.

"I just hope I don't go up there and make a fool of myself," Lee said.
Alan Bjerga can be reached at abjerga@pioneerpress.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHAT: "Hmong! The CIA's Secret Army" WHEN: Opens Saturday; through April
3 WHERE: Great American History Theater, 30 E. 10th St., St. Paul

GRAPHIC: Photo:Great American History Theater
The cast of "Hmong!" includes Kenny Lee (left), Hlee Vang (foreground)
and Kao Yang.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 28, 1999 Sunday

INTERPRETING A NEED;
CAMBODIAN REFUGEE SOKUNTHEA HENDRY HAS TRANSLATED THE LANGUAGE NEEDS OF
IMMIGRANTS LIKE HERSELF INTO A $250,000-A-YEAR BUSINESS.

BYLINE: Georgann Koelln Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; Case Study; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 1113 words


Sokunthea Hendry was introduced to the business of translating and interpreting
the hard way - in a refugee camp in Thailand. She was only 7. When the Pol Pot
regime was overthrown in 1979, Hendry, her mother and four siblings escaped from
their northern Cambodian home in Battambang to the Kao I Dang camp in the first
wave of refugees. Her father, a general in the Cambodian army, had been killed
in 1975.

Hendry's mother spoke French and helped French Red Cross doctors and volunteers
arrange finding food supplies and locating sponsors for other refugees. She did
a good job, and the French begged the family to stay; they did, for two years.

Today Hendry, like her mother years ago, is using her own talent for
interpreting and translating to help Minnesota businesses and institutions work
with immigrants. In doing so, she has built Minneapolis-based Asian
Translations, Inc. into a $250,000-a-year business. She stands out among the
growing number of Twin Cities translators, according to business associates, for
her continuing off-hours service to Asians who have settled here.

"She's one of those rare entrepreneurs who has the energy to both nurture a
business and give things back to the community," said Daniel Krotz, executive
director of the Centre for Asians and Pacific Islanders (Capi), a nonprofit
organization in Minneapolis that helps refugees find jobs and arranges
transportation to medical appointments. "She's sort of the eyes and ears of my
organization in the Cambodian community." Hendry is on Capi's board of
directors.

Richard Aguilar, chair-elect of the St. Paul Chamber of Commerce, whose
production company pulled together an Asian American marketing conference in St.
Paul's RiverCentre in October, said Asians comprise one of the fastest-growing
ethnic markets in the United States. Hendry had a booth at that fall conference.
She's also an active member of the St. Paul Chamber, said Aguilar, "at a time
when we don't have a lot of active Asians."

Though ATI is a business, Krotz said, "it's also a social service."

What was left of Hendry's family immigrated to the United States from Thailand
in the early '80s and bounced from a small town in Texas, where they were the
only Asians, to Minnesota, where an uncle had immigrated earlier. Sue, as she
prefers to be called, grew up on St. Paul's West Side and was graduated from
Hamline University with a business degree. In 1997 she married Todd Hendry from
Minneapolis (the couple live with his father, Thomas, in Champlin).

But at about that time, Sue's mother injured her back and had to leave the job
she'd held on a factory assembly line for 13 years. Because her English was so
poor, her mother couldn't fill out a new job application or do a first interview
alone.

That's when Hendry decided she could offer companies and applicants a service -
translating and interpreting for work force development. Most translating
services, she learned, were used in medical situations. Her niche would be
helping businesses that were hiring non-English-speaking people.

To find clients, she opened the phone book and made cold calls to companies from
her home. "Ever need an interpreter or translator?" she'd ask. Her father-in-law
gave her a $6,000 loan to pay for a computer, phone and rental of an office at
3702 E. Lake St., where Capi is headquartered.

At first Hendry was alone, doing Cambodian translations. Soon she had enough
business to hire a full-time Hmong translator and move into a larger office in
the same building. Now ATI has a rainbow coalition of 7 employees who specialize
in Cambodian, Chinese, Hmong, Japanese, Korean, Laotian and Vietnamese, and
provides services in a variety of others: Somali, Russian, Arabic, Bulgarian,
French.

"I focused on Asian (languages) at first," said Hendry. "Now it's all over the
place."

An early client was personal injury lawyer Scott Lorentz of Brooklyn Park, who
found Hendry in the Yellow Pages. He'd been using AT&T's language interpreting
service for late-night work. "They'll hook me up anywhere, any hour. But they're
expensive." Now he uses ATI for daytime work that needs "someone that is both
professional and that I can rely upon to interpret properly. "

Hendry charges clients like Lorentz about $40 an hour and pays $25 of that back
to employees, plus mileage. Her competition ranges from smal,l one-language
operations to national chains like Berlitz. Offering in-house translators that
don't have to be scheduled ahead of time gives her a competitive advantage, she
said. When they're not out interpreting, staff members are doing software
translations in the office. (Translation refers to documentation. Interpreting
is verbal.)

About half of ATI's clients are corporations; half are government agencies. A
few are individual immigrants clearing up things like documentation and school
transcripts with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Almost every day
the company is called to Ramsey County juvenile court to interpret for parents.
On the job, ATI might be called upon to settle conflicts between employees, to
help in hiring non-English-speaking workers, or to interpret safety manuals. ATI
has a contract with the state to help with Census translations.

Once companies hire immigrants, they often want to know more about the culture
of their employees. So ATI added cultural sensitivity training for managers to
its repertoire. Currently, Hendry is also working on a Cambodian children's
adoption program with the Children's Home Society.

Father-in-law Thomas Hendry is a now a 33 percent partner in Sue's 3-year-old
company. Her husband Todd is vice president.

Because of the huge influx of Southeast Asians to the area, which began in 1976,
companies like Hendry's are essential, according to Krotz at Capi. Hendry's
business will have to diversify, he said, because the great wave of migration
from there is over.

That's just what it's doing.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Business: Asian Translations Inc.

Type: Interpreting, translating and training services

Location: 3702 E. Lake St., Minneapolis

Owners: Sue Hendry and Thomas Hendry

Founded: March 1996

Employees: 7

Revenue: $250,000

Key competition: About 15 direct competitors of which probably 3 have in-house
translators. About 100 offer only one or two languages.

Competitive advantage: In-house translators and a business focus.

Obstacle overcome: Translations can't be perfect because of cultural
differences.

Challenges ahead: To do more work internationally, possibly opening an office in
Cambodia.

Georgann Koelln can be reached at gkoelln@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5576

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: SCOTT TAKUSHI, PIONEER PRESS
Sokunthea (Sue) Hendry operates Asian Translations Inc. on Lake Street
in Minneapolis.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 3, 1999 Saturday

9 ILLEGAL MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS DIE WHEN CAUGHT IN SNOWSTORM

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 247 words

DATELINE: ALPINE, CALIF.


A surprise snowstorm stranded Mexicans trying to cross a mountainous region of
the U.S. border, leaving at least nine dead. A search with dogs and helicopters
rescued more than 130 others Friday, some of whom had wandered for days dressed
in T-shirts and tennis shoes.

Among those saved were two sisters between the ages of 5 and 7. They were in
good condition but their parents had not been located, authorities said.

More than 140 illegal immigrants died last year crossing from Mexico into San
Diego and Imperial counties in California, said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman
for the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service. About 20 had died this
year before Friday's incident.

Several inches of snow were already on the ground in the Cleveland National
Forest when another storm brought flurries Thursday night. Several groups of
migrants were caught unprepared as they tried to cross from Tecate into San
Diego County, authorities said.

Authorities heard word of their plight when a woman sought aid from a rancher
Thursday night and said her husband and friend were lost in the storm.

The rancher called U.S. Border Patrol agents, who found their bodies. Another
group of seven immigrants was found two hours later, triggering a full-scale
rescue operation.

By midafternoon Friday, U.S. authorities had rescued more than 50 people
suffering from exposure and hypothermia. Seven were confirmed dead, and the toll
was expected to rise, Strassberger said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 11, 1999 Sunday

HISPANICS, INS WORKING TOWARD A COMPROMISE;
CHURCHES, GROUPS HOPE TO TROUBLESHOOT DISTRICT OFFICE'S ILLS

BYLINE: Amy Mayron Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 537 words


Local Hispanic residents on Saturday nudged the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service closer to meeting their demands for improved service at
the Bloomington district office.

Spanish-speaking people and others have long-running complaints about the lack
of bilingual officers, delays in processing citizenship applications and other
shortcomings.

A concerted effort to seek improvements from the INS began about a year ago.
Since then, a coalition of churches and community members - including labor
leaders, immigration lawyers and Hispanic representatives - have pushed for
changes. They enlisted the help of U.S. Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., and
representatives of the INS national headquarters in Washington.

William Yeats, a Washington representative of the federal agency, met with the
group in February in Minneapolis. He returned to Minnesota on Saturday afternoon
for a St. Paul meeting that drew about 50 people. It was organized by Interfaith
Action and the St. Paul Ecumenical Alliance of Churches.

Regional INS director Curtis Aljets, who attended the meeting, said he has
reassigned a Spanish-speaking agency officer from airport duty to the
Bloomington office to help meet one of the demands.

On another issue, Aljets said he could not get agreements from local libraries
to distribute INS forms, as the group had wanted. And while community leaders
sent him a list of churches willing to distribute forms, Aljets said it would be
too time-consuming to send forms to a long list of nonpublic places. In return,
community leaders agreed to pare the list and attempt to persuade other public
agencies to distribute forms.

Finally, Aljets said he would extend the Bloomington office hours on Mondays,
from 3 to 6 p.m., for at least six months to offer better access. However, a
number of other complaints remain unresolved and both sides were expected to
continue talks.

The INS has agreed to offer cultural training to all its employees, but getting
it organized has been slow, and Aljets asked local leaders for help in creating
an agenda for the training.

Labor issues also had to be worked out. Hispanic activists wanted a written
agreement by the INS to not interfere with employees seeking to form unions, but
Yeats could not meet the group's demands, instead referring them to the agency's
policies already in place.

The group also will work on how to get in contact with aliens who have been
detained by the INS. Yeats instituted a new policy of getting messages to
detainees three times an hour. But phone calls made by detainees are not free,
and the INS agreed to look into whether the agency can change the phone system.

The Minnesota effort has sparked interest elsewhere. Three representatives from
community organizations in Milwaukee attended Saturday's meeting, and members of
Interfaith Action/SPEAC have been in touch with similar groups in Chicago, said
Milla Benavides, a volunteer with Interfaith Action.

Yeats welcomed the input. "I find you a very valuable resource for the
government," he said. "Not only are your complaints legitimate, but they are
things we can fix."

Amy Mayron can be reached at amayron@pioneerpress.com or at (612) 338-6872.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 25, 1999 Sunday

ECUMENICAL ALLIANCE GETS AWARD

BYLINE: Maja Beckstrom, Staff Writer

SECTION: EXPRESS; Religion Briefs; Pg. 3G

LENGTH: 275 words


A coalition of St. Paul churches working on issues relating to immigration,
housing, poverty, gun violence and urban sprawl has won one of two social
justice awards given by the Headwaters Fund.

The St. Paul Ecumenical Alliance of Congregations (SPEAC) consists of 19
congregations, which have organized to develop leaders and tackle problems
identified by its members.

"We were especially aware of their work in the immigrant community," said Joy
Palmer, Headwaters' program director. "They don't do for people. They've
organized the immigrant population themselves."

SPEAC has had several rallies to demand changes in what it calls discriminatory
practices in the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and successfully
lobbied for translation services for non-English speakers at United Hospital in
St. Paul. The group also hosted a gubernatorial candidate forum last fall, ran a
loan program for low-income entrepreneurs and was part of a coalition that
successfully lobbied the state Legislature to put money toward cleaning polluted
land as sites for light industry.

Headwaters was founded in 1984 to give money to "grass-roots social change
organizations" that address economic, racial and social injustice in the seven
counties of the Twin Cities. Over the years it has expanded from the original
founders, mostly people with inherited wealth, to about 500 donors. It gave
$312,000 in grants in fiscal year 1998 to 65 organizations.

The other recipient of this year's social justice award is the Minnesota
Alliance for Progressive Action, a statewide advocacy coalition of 26 labor,
environment and community groups.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 26, 1999 Monday

POLICE SEIZE FORGED IMMIGRATION PAPERS;
SUSPICIOUS REPAIRMAN'S CALL LEADS TO STATE'S LARGEST DOCUMENT BUST

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 453 words


A repairman is responsible for the biggest seizure ever in Minnesota of phony
immigration papers.

The operation came to light April 14 when a repairman was sent to a south
Minneapolis apartment. When no one answered the door, the man let himself in.

According to court papers, he saw photographic equipment, blank resident
immigrant cards, blank Social Security cards, blank California ID cards and
other forms to manufacture identification. He saw fingerprint pads, glue,
typewriters, word processors and plastic laminate.

The man called police, who got a search warrant. Court records allege that after
one man answered the door, police spotted another working on a phony ID card,
and a bogus Social Security card was in a typewriter.

"They seized literally hundreds of documents," said Assistant U.S. Attorney
Cliff Wardlaw.

The two who were arrested identified themselves as Fausto M. Santos, 39, and
Jonathan C. Sanchez, 26. Authorities are trying to determine whether those are
true identities. The men were charged in U.S. District Court with fraud in
connection with identification documents. They were being held without bail.

Agents say the two men have admitted being illegal immigrants working for a
bigger operation. Agents hope to make more arrests as they try to learn who was
supplying the men with records.

They had sheets of blank birth certificates and other printed materials that
appeared to have come from a sophisticated printing operation.

Police and federal agents say many of the bogus documents were sold by runners
who drummed up business in the parking lot of a discount store.

A chief investigator with the Immigration and Naturalization Service said he
believes that because of such operations, hundreds of prisoners in the Midwest
have been arrested, prosecuted and even deported under phony names. He said not
only the criminal justice system, but also the integrity of the INS, the Social
Service Administration, the state vehicle services division and other agencies
are compromised by people with phony identities.

"I don't think people are aware of how extensive and pervasive this kind of
fraud is," said Mark Cangemi, assistant director for INS investigations in
Minnesota and the Dakotas.

In the case discovered in Minneapolis, most of the customers appear to be
illegal immigrants who want to stay in the United States, Cangemi said. They
become harder to track once they buy bogus documents to get valid identification
from the vehicle services division, he said.

"The proliferation of false documents has reached such a high level," Cangemi
said, "that I would say you can't rely on computer checks based on dates of
birth and names anymore."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 3, 1999 Monday

DULUTH MAN'S FILM TELLS STORY OF IMMIGRANT MINERS ON RANGE

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: DULUTH, MINN.


Iron Range immigrants' struggles to attain respectable working conditions and
the spy network used by mining companies to undermine them are told in a new
documentary.

Tom Selinski of Duluth filmed the 70-minute "Spies in Steel, The Dollar-a-Day
Man," which is narrated by actor Edward Asner.

It is a blend of interviews with historians and descendants of miners,
photographs of the early Iron Range mines and written accounts by immigrant
workers.

Duluth resident Frank Blatnik, a descendant of Yugoslavian immigrants, is among
about 15 people Selinski filmed during his interviews.

"It was a different concept of democracy" that immigrants encountered when they
arrived, said Blatnik, whose father and uncles worked in the mines around
Chisholm. He said if workers quietly tolerated the conditions, "nobody bothered
you, but you were literally a slave."

Blatnik, who worked as a teacher, principal and postmaster before retiring 13
years ago, said Selinski's film tells an important story.

"I thought it was long overdue. It's a part of the history of the mining
industry here that we never learned about, at least not in school," Blatnik
said. "And it had a tremendous effect on immigrants coming to this country and
having their jobs in jeopardy because they were being approached (by co-workers)
to organize into a union. And the companies had a tremendous (spy) campaign that
most of us knew little about. And yet it affected thousands of people here."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 5, 1999 Wednesday

CUBAN COACH DEFECTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 522 words


A Cuban baseball coach skipped the flight home Tuesday after the exhibition
against the Baltimore Orioles and asked for asylum in the United States.

Federal authorities were trying to determine whether six others who missed the
plane wanted to stay in the United States, too.

Rigoberto Herrera, a 54-year-old pitching coach, walked into the downtown
Baltimore police headquarters about 10 a.m. Tuesday, a police spokesman said.

The lieutenant on duty "through an interpreter, understood he was requesting
asylum and immediately notified INS officials," spokesman Robert Weinhold said.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service took custody of Herrera, he said.

Rep. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., a foe of Fidel Castro's regime, said the man's full
name is Rigoberto Herrera Betancourt.

Menendez said two others also may have asked for asylum. That could not be
immediately confirmed.

Cuban officials denied that any members of the delegation had defected but said
six Cubans had overslept and missed the plane.

A beaming President Fidel Castro and hundreds of screaming children greeted the
victorious Cuban team as it returned to Havana after beating the Orioles 12-6.

What Cubans saw, he said, were first-class baseball players "with the spirits of
lions, of tigers."

ESPN sues baseball:

ESPN sued Major League Baseball in federal court to try to prevent termination
of the network's regular-season contract, which has three years to run.

For the second season, baseball is refusing to allow the network to switch three
September Sunday night games to ESPN2 and run NFL games on the bigger-audience
ESPN.

"Baseball has attempted to extort hundreds of million of dollars of economic
concessions as the 'price' for its consent," ESPN said in a 30-page complaint.

Paul Beeston, the chief aide to Commissioner Bud Selig, sent ESPN a letter April
21 saying the sport was terminating its $40 million-a-year deal with the network
after this season.

ESPN asked for an injunction preventing baseball from ending the deal, an
unspecified amount of money and a declaratory judgment forcing baseball to grant
permission to switch the three telecasts.

Fans concern Cubs:

Wrigley Field's faithful fans could face more stringent security and tighter
alcohol access after those angry about an umpire's call pelted the field with
baseballs, bottles, coins and cups of beer.

Seventy-five people were ejected from the bleachers Monday night during the
Cubs' game against Colorado, but there were no arrests following the
eighth-inning deluge of debris that caused a five-minute delay so crews could
clean up the mess.

Options include adding personnel, relocating security, considering stiffer
penalties and limiting alcohol sales.

Umpire goes home:

Umpire Kerwin Danley was released from Cincinnati a hospital and returned to his
home in Phoenix to see his family doctor and get more tests.

Danley, 37, left the Cincinnati Reds' 4-3 victory over the Arizona Diamondbacks
on Monday night after he became light-headed. Crew chief Ed Montague said the
medical tests found nothing seriously wrong with Danley.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 21, 1999 Friday

IMMIGRATION EASED FOR SOME

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 70 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More than a quarter-million immigrants who fled civil wars in El Salvador and
Guatemala during the 1980s will find it easier to become legal U.S. residents
under a new rule announced Thursday. The rule, which also will affect about
10,000 Eastern Europeans, would allow the illegal immigrants to apply for relief
from deportation through a simplified procedure overseen by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 4, 1999 Friday

SCOUTS SEEK WAY TO KEEP ALBANIAN BOY;
INS IS AFTER BOY WHO IS DOING WELL IN SCHOOL WHILE UNDER SCOUTS CARE

BYLINE: Cynthia Boyd, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 482 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service says it's time for Rahman Kasami to
head home to Albania, but St. Paul Boy Scouts say they're not ready to say
goodbye to the 16-year-old they brought here for schooling and a slice of
American life.

"It's a little too soon, we think," board member Gene Frey said Thursday as news
of the Yugoslav parliament's acceptance of an international peace plan suggested
a possible resolution to the refugee crisis in the boy's native land.

"With things as unsettled as they are in Albania right now, I would argue, 'Why
don't we just let the dust settle?" said Frey, past president of the council of
Indianhead Scouting/BSA, the new name for the St. Paul scouting organization.

"It seems (Rahman) just got here. He's getting fluent in the language. We want
to get him better educated," Frey said.

The Scouts learned last month that their appeal to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for an extension of Kasami's visa had been refused. They
have since hired Ranfi Rivera, an attorney with Oppenheimer, Wolff and Donnelly,
to, as he says, "explore other avenues" that would permit Kasami to remain in
the United States longer.

Kasami arrived in St. Paul about 15 months ago with little more than the clothes
on his back and no more than a fifth-grade education, from the poorest nation in
Europe where he lived with his family in a converted military bunker. He spoke
no English.

Today, says Ron Phillippo, chief executive officer of the scouting organization,
the teen-ager speaks fluent English and has a "ton of potential."

"He's made tremendous progress. He could probably do ninth-grade work," said
Phillippo, whose idea it was to bring the teen here. "The goal was to provide a
young person of poverty an opportunity to experience a host family, school and
scouting," he said. The group regularly brings scouts from middle-class families
here on exchange programs.

Kasami summered last year at Boy Scout camps in Minnesota and other places and
is finishing the school year at LEAP English Academy, a St. Paul public school
for international students. The scouts pay his tuition and most of his expenses,
though local families have hosted Kasami.

Along the way, he has made a good many friends. "He has a way about him that
endears himself to people," Phillippo said. "He's really very special."

Currently, Kasami is registered to start ninth grade at a St. Paul parochial
school in the fall, but if he must return home, the scouts hope to enroll him in
a boarding school in Tirana, Albania. If he is allowed to stay here, the teen
will work as a counselor at Boy Scout camps this summer.

What happens next depends on the INS.

Says Kasami: "I'd like to stay here forever, but I've got to follow the rules."
Cynthia Boyd, who covers the northern suburbs, can be reached at
cboyd@pioneerpress.com or (651) 481-0406.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 11, 1999 Friday

IRAQIS RELEASED TO SEEK ASYLUM

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 109 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Five former members of CIA-backed Iraqi resistance groups jailed for 2 1/2 years
will be released while they seek asylum in another country, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said Thursday. The men belonged to two groups supported
by the CIA as part of a U.S. effort to overthrow or weaken Saddam Hussein after
the 1991 Gulf War. When Saddam's troops swept through northern Iraq, thousands
of opposition fighters and their families were evacuated by the U.S. military.
Six of the men were detained by the United States. An immigration judge denied
them asylum in March 1998 and ordered them deported, saying they were security
risks.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 11, 1999 Sunday

ENTERPRISING EMPLOYERS SPEAKING NEW LANGUAGES;
COMPANIES SEEK IMMIGRANTS TO FILL JOBS

BYLINE: Tom Webb, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1146 words


When Minnesota's worker shortage appeared two years ago, Magnetic Data found a
new way to fill hundreds of jobs at its Eden Prairie plant. It stopped requiring
workers to speak English.

"As the unemployment rate changed, so did we," said Teri LaBerge Berndt, manager
of human resources. "You have to learn to adapt to what's available out there."

Today, Magnetic Data employs 200 foreign-born workers, most of whom were looking
for their first jobs in America and found them repairing computer disk drives
for $7.50 an hour plus benefits. They make up 80 percent of the company's
manufacturing work force.

Hmong, Somalians, Serbians, Vietnamese, Russians, Hispanics and a few Americans
work together in a plant that can be chaotic at times, but it works just fine,
said Berndt. "We wouldn't be here today if we didn't adapt to this."

With the Twin Cities' unemployment rate at 1.6 percent - lower than any big
urban area in America - more and more Minnesota companies are turning to
immigrants to fill gaps in their work force. They range from small restaurants
that need dishwashers to large high-tech firms like Seagate Technology, whose
scientists and production workers come from nearly 70 nations.

Economists say the migration of workers to meet a shortage benefits the United
States. "One thing we do know is, immigration is very selective," said Roger
Feldman, an economics professor at the University of Minnesota. "It's not the
dummies and the lazy workers who immigrate to the U.S. It's the smart people,
it's those who are willing to take a chance and work hard."

And it appears a new wave of immigrants is streaming into Minnesota just as
employers need workers most.

"Our economy is so good here, and our job demands are so high, that we've seen a
significant increase in what we call secondary migrants, refugees moving from
other states," said Tim Gordon, a policy analyst with the state of Minnesota's
Refugee Services. "People move for economic opportunity, and that's pretty much
the same as it's always been."

By national standards, Minnesota has a fairly low percentage of immigrants. One
estimate is that immigrants make up 5 percent of Minnesota's population, or
roughly 225,000 people. But some immigrant groups appear to be growing rapidly,
although precise numbers won't be available until the 2000 census.

The number of Hmong and Somalians here is growing quickly, analysts believe, as
refugees relocate to Minnesota from elsewhere in the country. By tracking Social
Security numbers, state officials know far more refugees live in Minnesota than
were resettled here.

Others are coming, too. Congress nearly doubled the number of work visas for
high-skilled engineers and scientists, to 115,000 a year, but demand still
outstrips supply. And the stream of undocumented or illegal immigrants seems to
be growing, too, although the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in
1996 estimated Minnesota has fewer illegal immigrants than almost any other
state, just two-tenths of 1 percent.

"There certainly has been an increase over the last ten years of the level of
illegal immigrants we've seen," said Tim Counts, an INS spokesman in
Bloomington. "We know from historical experience that the biggest draw is
employment."

Together, the rising tide has added untold thousands of newly arrived
Ethiopians, Guatemalans, Hmong and Chinese to a Minnesota work force that's
still overwhelmingly white and English-speaking. But the demand for workers has
done more:

It has altered ways of doing business, as employers and employees both find they
must adapt. At Magnetic Data, American managers have learned to provide shift
breaks that match Muslim prayer schedules, and avoid teaming workers from
warring nations. For their part, foreign workers must learn to adapt to a
foreign business culture, including such mysteries as HMOs and 401(k)s.

"It's not unusual for me to be distributing health care forms in four
languages," said Anne Maimares at Magnetic Data. At Seagate Technology, which
employs 4,200 people in the Twin Cities, they've added a nondenominational
employee prayer room.

The worker demand may be fueling another wave of immigration to the Twin Cities,
as early immigrants find jobs so abundant they urge family and friends to move
here. Gordon cites evidence that "thousands of Hmong are leaving the Fresno area
for Minnesota because of jobs." Something similar may be happening among other
ethnic groups.

Ying Vang, executive director of the Lao Family Community of Minnesota, has seen
some of that migration to Minnesota's Hmong community that he says now totals
70,000. Vang thinks it's not just jobs fueling the migration, but jobs that have
benefits and health care. "Employment and self-sufficiency are different," Vang
said.

The worker demand has provided a transition for immigrants who once could fall
back on welfare programs but now confront time limits and other restrictions.
Despite an influx of refugees, Ramsey County's welfare rolls are down 22 percent
in five years, and continue to fall.

"I do think it's the employers as a group looking for employees in ways they
hadn't done before," said Gail Stremel with Ramsey County Human Services.

With talented immigrants landing jobs with ease, refugee agencies such as Lao
Family Community have a tougher challenge in helping hard-to-place refugees gain
self-sufficiency. "It takes a lot of time and effort to work with family
members," Vang said. He'd like companies to put more emphasis on training and
retaining refugee workers, and his group stands ready to explain Hmong ways to
Minnesota employers.

There are successes. Five years ago, the state's Refugee Services section placed
492 refugees in jobs in Minnesota. Last year, it topped the 1,000 mark. This
year, it expects to place 1,300.

Worker demand may affect entry-level wages. Economists say large waves of
immigrants can keep wage rates down, even in tight labor markets. But that's not
how state labor leaders see it.

"It isn't immigrants who have an impact on wages, it's employers," said Bernard
Brommer, president of the Minnesota AFL-CIO. "Our quarrel is not with people who
are seeking a better life for their family and themselves; our challenge is with
the employers who are looking for cheap labor and exploiting workers."

Exploiting immigrant labor has a long history, and there's little reason to
think it has disappeared. Brommer has no hard statistics, but says he's hearing
more "anecdotal evidence" about employers who renege on promises to immigrant
workers. So unions are adapting, too.

"Our affiliates are now hiring organizers who are bilingual, who speak Spanish
or one of the Asian dialects," Brommer said. "Not too many years ago, that
wouldn't have happened."

Tom Webb can be reached at twebb@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5421.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              JULY 25, 1999 Sunday

NEW U.S. CITIZENS CELEBRATE ACHIEVEMENTS, COMMUNITY;
FESTIVAL RECOGNIZES ACHIEVEMENT OF THOSE WHO STUDIED, HELPED

BYLINE: Shuchi Anand Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 321 words


Seventy-seven year-old Dona Raquel Mendoza celebrated a new identity Saturday at
the Freedom Festival on St. Paul's West Side. After more than 50 years as a
resident alien, Mendoza became a U.S. citizen this year.

"I am so old, I can't remember things anymore," Mendoza said, explaining one of
her difficulties in taking the citizenship test. It took her three years of
English classes at the Jane Addams School of Democracy in St. Paul to pass.

Mendoza's and 14 other new citizens' achievements were recognized by the West
Side community at the festival, organized by Jane Addams School. Several state
officials, including U.S. Rep. Bruce Vento, State Rep. Carlos Mariani and
District Immigration and Naturalization Service Director Curtis Alijetz were
present.

"I think it is really important, this issue of immigrants becoming citizens,"
Mariani said. "They have been the lifeblood of our country for years."

The Freedom Festival celebrates those who have worked especially hard in the
pursuit of freedom, said Jennifer O'Donaghue, one of the festival's
coordinators. In addition to new citizens, several community volunteers working
with the school were honored. Members of the National Guard also posted the
flag.

The Jane Addams School offers community education, including language and legal
aid for immigrants struggling to acquire citizenship.

"The immigration work is very satisfying because it allows people a basic
security, so they can work and plan for the future of their family," said Karen
Ellingson of Officina Legal, the nonprofit organization that has provided legal
aid for immigrants at Jane Addams since 1983. Ellingson and fellow lawyer Lenore
Millibergity also were honored at the festival.

For Mendoza, citizenship will make travels to her native Mexico easier and
finally will allow her to vote.

Shuchi Anand can be reached at sanand@pioneerpress.com or at (612) 228-5490.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 29, 1999 Thursday

INFLUX OF HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS TRANSFORMS GEORGIA WORK FORCE

BYLINE: JAMES PILCHER ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; Top of the News; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: SUWANEE, GA.


For centuries, Georgia has been split along one racial line, between blacks and
whites.

But thousands of Hispanic immigrants - legal and illegal - have flooded into the
heart of the New South recently, providing powerful muscle to the state's
humming economic engine.

Migration from Mexico and Central America, once concentrated from Texas to the
West Coast, started turning toward the Southeast in the past decade. The job
market around Atlanta, one of the fastest-growing U.S. cities for much of the
past 20 years, has drawn Hispanics like a magnet.

"I started in Houston, but some of the jobs, you don't make much money," said
Ernesto Alvarez, assistant manager at a McDonald's in this Atlanta suburb. "Some
friends tell me about Atlanta, and how good it was here, so I came four years
ago and I like it a lot."

Even after slavery, blacks in Georgia were stuck in backbreaking, low-paying
jobs. Since the 1960s, a thriving black middle class has emerged - especially in
Atlanta - and it became more difficult for employers to find cheap labor.

Hispanics have helped fill that void by taking jobs hanging drywall, planting
shrubs, flipping burgers or plucking chickens.

"This group is essentially taking the jobs that Georgians don't want to do but
need to have done," said University of Georgia sociologist Doug Bachtel.

Perhaps that is why hardly anyone has complained about the influx of immigrants.

Since 1990, the state's Hispanic population has at least doubled, hitting
207,000 in 1997, according to the Census Bureau. Researchers and immigration
officials say the real number is probably closer to 750,000 with illegal
immigrants thrown in. Estimates call for the numbers to exceed 1.5 million by
2005, or about 12 percent of the state's population.

State unemployment levels have steadily dropped as the population has grown,
reaching 3.5 percent in May, a 28-year low.

"The additional labor supply is one of the main things that is helping Georgia
sustain its tremendous economic growth," University of Georgia economic
forecaster Jeffrey Humphreys said.

Employers say they wouldn't be able to stay afloat without the immigrants.

When the Immigration and Naturalization Service began deporting illegal
immigrants last year during the Vidalia onion harvest, Sen. Paul Coverdell
intervened. Farmers said the onions would rot in the field if Mexican laborers
were sent home.

A few years ago, most Hispanic immigrants took jobs in agriculture. But
Hispanics have been taking more visible jobs in the construction and service
industries.

Kim Dobbs, director of operations for Alvarez's restaurant and eight others in
northeast Georgia, said about half of her work force is Hispanic.

"We welcome all applicants, but these people really want to work," said Dobbs,
who said the average wage at Alvarez's store is $8.16 an hour.

Construction companies pay as high as $15 to $20 an hour, but it's backbreaking
work in sometimes brutal heat. Without Hispanics, builders could not meet
demand.

"I will say unequivocally that the Hispanic labor market has saved the building
industry in metro Atlanta," said Rick Porter, owner of Richport Properties.

Most of the immigrants are young men, who send much of their pay home to wives
or parents. Few have cars and most share small apartments with eight or nine
others.

"Their quality of life is that they are working," said Mexican Consul General
Teodoro Maus. "They go job to job, and sleep a little while and go work again."

This year, Hispanic leaders began complaining about some racist attitudes in
suburban Gwinnett County, where a large number of immigrants have moved.

"There is an element of culture shock," Maus said. "Here are these people of a
different color with a different language coming into their communities, and it
sends shock waves."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ALAN MOTHNER, ASSOCIATED PRESS
Ernesto Alvarez hands change to customer at a McDonald's in Suwanee,
Ga. Alvarez came to the Atlanta area from Houston, where he was
dissatisfied with the wages.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 19, 1999 Thursday

GOOD NEWS: ALBANIAN STUDENT GETS TO STAY;
EXTENSION OF VISA ALLOWS KASAMI TO FINISH SCHOOL HERE

BYLINE: Cindy Boyd Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 423 words


Rahman Kasami, the Albanian teen-ager the St. Paul Boy Scouts brought to the
United States, got a late birthday present Wednesday: good news from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Kasami, who turned 17 earlier this month, was getting ready to take a shower at
the Tomahawk Scout Reservation in Birchwood, Wis., where he is a camp counselor
for Cub Scouts when he received the news. The INS had approved an extension of
his student visa.

"I was happy," he said by phone from camp. In fact, he jumped up and down with
excitement.

The ruling means Kasami can stay here for the next four years, long enough to
graduate from St. Bernard's High School in St. Paul, where he begins study this
fall.

"We wanted to give the boy the opportunity to finish high school," explained an
emotional and excited Ron Phillippo, CEO of the Indianhead Scouting/BSA, the St.
Paul scouting organization, and the instigator of what came to be known as the
Albanian Good Turn project.

Phillippo read in the St. Paul Pioneer Press about the then 13-year-old dropout
living with his family in a converted military bunker in the poorest nation in
Europe. He wanted to bring him to the United States for schooling and a chance
for a better life.

The board agreed to sponsor the boy's stay here and private donations made that
possible.

When Kasami arrived in St. Paul 17 months ago, he had little more than the
clothes he was wearing and spoke no English. He was enrolled in a public school
English immersion program, for which the Boy Scouts paid the tuition. Because it
was a public school program, his visa expired after one year.

But the Scouts weren't ready to say goodbye.

Fearful their request for an extension would be denied and the boy would be sent
home to Albania to political unrest and a refugee crisis, the Scouts turned to
Oppenheimer, Wolff and Donnelly, a Twin Cities law firm, for help at no charge.

The local folks contacted Ranfi Rivera, the firm's immigration law expert based
in New York City.

Rivera, with help from Edward Hayward in the Minneapolis office and Tom Kane in
the firm's St. Paul office, presented the INS with evidence that Kasami has
learned enough English to enroll in a private St. Paul high school and asked
that his student status be reinstated. Private donors will pay the boy's tuition
costs.

Rivera said Republican U.S. Sen. Rod Grams also helped.

"A lot of people need to be thanked," Rivera said.
Cynthia Boyd can be reached at cboyd@pioneerpress.com and (651) 481-0406.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: neely tucker, knight ridder tribune
ABOVE: This photo, published in the St. Paul Pioneer Press in 1997,
shows Rahman Kasami at home in Albania. The newspaper photograph and
accompanying story prompted the Indianhead Scouting, BSA of St. Paul to
sponsor the boy's stay in the United States.
Photo: carolyn kaster, pioneer press
LEFT: Kasami, at right, attends classes at LEAP English Academy in St.
Paul last September. Along with student Semienawit Blhane, 14, the
16-year-old Kasami listened to his oral English teacher, Sharon
Peterson.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 21, 1999 Saturday

ST. PAUL'S MOSQUE;
THE GROWING ISLAMIC COMMUNITY IN THE CITY - FUELED BY SOMALI IMMIGRATION - HAS
FOUND A PLACE OF ITS OWN TO WORSHIP.

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1100 words

'Ah-la-aa-aa-hu Aa-aak-bar!" the caller chanted, stretching out the Muslim call
to prayer in a high, haunting melody.

Allahu Akbar - God is great - rang out at 12:45 p.m. sharp, and the men quickly
streamed up the narrow staircase into Masjid Al-Taqwa, St. Paul's only mosque,
located in an apartment above a meat market and grocery on busy University
Avenue.

Within a few minutes, the service is packed and a line forms for late arrivals
to wait for their turn to enter. The congregation shuffles forward en masse to
make room for more arrivals.

"You can't get in if you come late," whispered one late arriver dressed in an
ankle-length robe like many of the worshipers.

This is the juma, the regular Friday afternoon worship service that is to Islam
what Sunday morning church is to Christianity or Friday evening synagogue is to
Judaism.

This also is a snapshot of the changing face of St. Paul. The city's African
immigrant population is expanding in the Midway area, boosted over the past
couple years by the state's booming Somali population, now estimated between
15,000 and 30,000 and considered the largest in the United States.

No one knows for sure how many Somalis live in St. Paul, but many of the emigres
attend Masjid Al-Taqwa. They used to meet in the community room at the Skyline
Towers at 1247 St. Anthony Ave., a high-rise apartment where as many as
three-quarters of the families are Somali, community leaders say.

A few years ago, the congregation moved the mosque, or masjid, as it is called,
into a bigger space in the lobby of an auto repair shop on University Avenue and
Avon Street. And when it outgrew that space two years ago, the congregation
moved upstairs to a two-bedroom apartment.

Now, says its iman, or religious leader, Hassan Mohamed, the congregation is
looking for its own building where it can have room to grow.

"We're looking for a space to accommodate 500 to 1,000 people, with room for a
school," said Mohamed, himself a Somali immigrant who studied law in his native
country. He works for the St. Paul School District while attending William
Mitchell College of Law, working toward a law degree.

"It would be not only a mosque but an Islamic center for the people of St.
Paul," said Mohamed.

Masjid Al-Taqwa serves a wide range of ethnic groups, including American-born
Muslims and emigres from Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Ethiopia, Egypt, Malaysia and
other Islamic countries. But until the Somali influx of a few years ago sparked
its creation, east metro Muslims found themselves traveling to mosques in
Fridley or Minneapolis to worship.

"The growth of the Somali population has put tremendous pressure on the Muslim
community to accommodate them," said Matthew Ramadan, an American-born Muslim
and a longtime leader in the Twin Cities Islamic community.

Muslims pray five times a day at work or home, but many Muslims frequent the
mosque only at the Friday juma, Ramadan said. Somali emigres, however, have such
strong ties to their faith that they tend to make more use of their mosques,
seeing them as community hubs as well as religious institutions.

The rise in Somali immigration began earlier this decade when the United States
raised the limit on all African immigration, and it soared after the East
African country's civil war erupted in 1991.

Only a fraction of the Somalis in Minnesota arrived directly from refugee camps
in Africa, though. The overwhelming majority are coming in a wave of "secondary
migration" from Texas, Virginia, California and elsewhere in the United States,
observers say.

"Word spread: 'In Minnesota, there are jobs available,"' said Mohamed Essa,
executive director of the Somali Community of Minnesota Inc., a social service
agency based in Minneapolis.

They initially worked jobs like those in turkey processing plants in Marshall,
Minn., where lack of English or extensive technical skills were no handicap,
Essa said. Then better employment and housing opportunities brought them to the
Twin Cities, he said.

The state demographer's office estimates there are 15,000 Somalis in Minnesota
while Essa's group says the number is closer to 30,000. Ramadan said another
3,000 emigres arrive annually.

In the Twin Cities, most Somalis settled first in Minneapolis, but over the past
couple years, they've begun settling St. Paul and the suburbs, drawn by better
housing and business opportunities, Essa said.

The Somali boom by itself may have doubled the number of Muslims in Minnesota,
pushing that number to 40,000, according to officials at the Islamic Institute
of Minnesota.

To meet the needs of this growing population, Masjid Al-Taqwa began a weekend
school for the children of its families only two months ago.

The school, taught by parents and others who volunteer their time, is designed
to teach the children Arabic so they can follow the services, memorization of
the Koran and "Adab," or lessons on how to pray, behave and become closer to
God.

Abubakar Muridi, 12, of St. Paul, said he likes learning Arabic best, "Because
my uncle speaks Arabic and I want to speak to him in Arabic."

Teacher Huda Sheik, a mother and full-time student at St. Paul Technical College
studying child development, said she volunteers because the children cannot get
the sort of instruction in public schools as she did growing up in Egypt.

Iman Hassan, as his parishioners call him, said the main mission of the mosque
is to help members keep their Muslim identity.

The mosque, though spartanly furnished, serves its community well, said Ramadan,
himself an iman. In the Islamic world, a plain room can be as good as a palace,
he said.

"The Prophet Mohammed says, 'The whole Earth is God's mosque."'

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or (651)
228-5475.

Conscious of God
Masjid Al-Taqwa is St. Paul's first mosque. Although small and spartanly
furnished, it has been growing rapidly, riding the wave of Somali immigration to
Minnesota for the past several years.
There are 15 mosques in the Twin Cities, with all but two - Masjid Al-Taqwa and
the Maplewood Mosque - in Minneapolis or one of its suburbs. Along with mosques
in Rochester and Winona, they serve the state's estimated 40,000 Muslims.
The name, Al-Taqwa, means "being conscious of God" or "God consiousness" and
comes form the saying in the Koran: "The mosque built upon God consciousness is
the best one to set foot in," says Matthew Ramadan, a longtime Twin Cities iman,
or Muslim religious leader.
Sources: The Islamic Center of Minnesota; Matthew Ramadan.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 photos: Janet Hostetter, Pioneer Press
Masjid Al-Taqwa, St. Paul's only mosque, also serves as a school on
weekends. Classes began for the children of the congregation's
families only two months ago. The school is designed to teach the
children Arabic so they can follow the services, memorization of the
Koran and "Adab," or lessons on how to pray, behave and become
closer to God. This class was taught by Hassan Mohamed, the mosque's
iman, or religious leader.
Men gather at the Masjid Al-Taqwa, St. Paul's only mosque, which is
located in an apartment above a meat market and grocery on University
Avenue. Shoes are left outside the door. Hassan Mohamed, the mosque's
iman, or religious leader, says the congregation is looking for its
own building, where it can have room to grow.
Women pray in a separate room because the main worship space is too
small.
Map: Pioneer Press
Masjid Al-Taqwa

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 24, 1999 Tuesday

IMMIGRANTS HELPING FILL STATE'S NEED FOR NURSING;
ASSISTANTS IN DEMAND, EASE LANGUAGE BARRIERS

BYLINE: Royale Da, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 715 words


When the International Institute of Minnesota began training immigrants to
become nursing assistants in 1990, the face of the Twin Cities was beginning to
change.

The program had trouble placing graduates during its first year because health
care businesses were reluctant to hire non-native workers.

Nine years later, at a time when Minnesota's immigrant population is growing,
the St. Paul program's staff doesn't have to pick up the telephone to recruit as
often as in the past. People call them.

A shortage of nursing assistants in Minnesota is being filled by immigrants
willing to learn and work with hospital patients and the elderly.

The institute - which also offers English instruction, citizenship classes and
other services to U.S. newcomers - trains more than 100 students annually in
11-week programs. Certified nursing assistants dress and bathe patients and take
their blood pressure and temperature, among other duties. Described by their
employers as loyal, dedicated and reliable, immigrants are filling the void and
helping with cultural barriers in the medical field.

"Being a nursing assistant is very exhausting work and very draining," said Jane
Graupman, education supervisor for the institute. "People in the mainstream see
it as a dead-end job. Our students see this as a job that will move them up in
the medical profession."

Nursing assistants who graduate from the institute offer more than persistence
and reliability. They speak at least one other language, a skill that helps them
assist immigrant patients who don't speak English.

"Hospitals are very interested in bilingual people," said Graupman. "Also,
nursing homes are starting to get residents who need bilingual services.
Especially people that have been in this country only five to 10 years, who
don't speak English."

Jennifer Milsap, a nurse manager for Regions Hospital in St. Paul, uses the
institute to recruit nursing assistants. She said that with a growing number of
foreign-born patients, bilingual nursing assistants help medical staff with the
communication necessary for proper treatment.

"When people come here that cannot speak English, everything is unfamiliar to
them," she said. "(Bilingual nursing assistants) do a nice job of putting these
people at ease. They can at least say, 'Hi, how are you?' They are very in touch
with the cultural needs of the patients."

Aung Koe, a 1995 graduate of the institute and an on-call nursing assistant for
Regions, has had plenty of opportunities to use his language skills.

A native of Myanmar, also known as Burma, Koe also speaks Thai, which helps him
communicate with some Hmong patients who come to the hospital.

"I remember one year when a Hmong man came in and he couldn't speak the
language. I asked him, 'Can you speak Thai?' He told me he did, and I found out
he had diabetes and I helped the nurses understand what kind of medication he
needed."

Koe said that he is often asked by his supervisor to learn the patient's name so
the family can be contacted and the medical problem can be determined.

At the Galtier Health Center, a nursing home in St. Paul, bilingual nursing
assistants work at the Southeast Asian Wing. The wing was created five years ago
in response to the growing Southeast Asian population in St. Paul.

Cultural murals adorn the walls, traditional music is played, and rice and tofu
soup are served to make residents feel at home. About seven Southeast Asian
staff members work on the floor to help with communication.

"I would say that the certified nursing assistants are asked once or twice an
hour for their help," said Joan Jarombek, a nurse manager for the center.

She said that few of the Southeast Asian residents speak English, so the
bilingual assistants play a key role in meeting the cultural and medical needs
of the residents.

Graupman said the health care community is beginning to realize the need for
nursing assistants.

"People call us because they need employees; that's the reality," she said.
FYI
The nursing assistant training program at St. Paul's International Institute of
Minnesota is free and classes meet Monday through Friday. Classes begin every
January, April, July and October. Contact Robbie Hamblen at (651) 647-0191 for
information.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean Pieri, Pioneer Press
Immigrants in the International Institute of Minnesota's nursing
assistant program practice adjusting belts used for moving patients.
Students in the 11-week class are from Ethiopia, Guinea, Liberia,
Russia and India. The U.S. newcomers trained in the St. Paul program
are helping to fill the shortage of certified nursing assistants in
hospitals and nursing homes. They also are often able to help with
cultural and language barriers. in the medical field.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 4, 1999 Saturday

RED, WHITE AND BLUE RECORD;
SIXTY IMMIGRANTS BECOME U.S. CITIZENS DURING A STATE FAIR CEREMONY, JOINING A
RECORD GROUP OF NEW AMERICANS IN THE REGION.

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 619 words


Minnesota and the Dakotas will set a new record this month for the number of new
naturalized citizens sworn in, the head of the regional office the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service said Friday.

The INS office in Bloomington, which handles the three states, expects to have
naturalized more than 8,100 new citizens by Sept. 30, when the federal
government ends its budget year. The old record, set in 1997, was 6,400.

Regional INS director Curtis Aljets shared the information with almost 60 new
citizens who were sworn in at the naturalization ceremony held each year at the
Minnesota State Fair.

"By joining our ranks, you make our country stronger," he told them.

One such citizen was Girma Zemedhin, 35, who was born in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia,
and applied for U.S. citizenship a year ago. The ethnic Eritrean arrived in the
United States in 1990 to reunite with his parents and brothers and sisters, who
are naturalized citizens.

Like several other naturalized citizens at the ceremony Friday, Zemedhin said he
hopes that citizenship will lead to better job opportunities and the chance to
bring a teen-age son and daughter to the United States.

"Today, I'm here and I am really surprised by myself," he added, looking happy
with a small American flag sticking up from the pocket of his shirt. "There is a
future inside of me now."

According to the latest U.S. Census Bureau statistics, the United States is home
to 26.3 million immigrants, a 33 percent increase from 1990 and the largest
percentage of immigrants in the country's history.

Furthermore, this year the INS expects to have naturalized 1.2 million new
citizens, topping the old record of 1 million set in 1996, Aljets said.

The naturalization ceremony at the State Fair offered a snapshot of the changing
immigration patterns in Minnesota.

The new citizens who raised their right hands inside the 4-H Building and
repeated the oath of allegiance came from 25 different countries spanning the
globe, from Vietnam to France, Switzerland to South Africa, Tibet to Somalia to
Mexico and Uruguay.

The greatest numbers of new citizens in Minnesota during the past several years
come from Southeast Asian countries like Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia, Aljets
said.

But the district office also sees a steady number from neighbors such as Mexico
and other Central and South American countries, and it notes a rising number of
potential new citizens are arriving as immigrants from emerging Eastern European
countries like Russia, Ukraine and Bosnia.

The reason for 1999's dramatic rise in naturalizations can be traced to a
swelling in the ranks of permanent resident aliens from 13 years ago. That's
when the government, under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986,
offered amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants on a one-time basis.

Once they were granted legal status, a process that took two years, the
immigrants needed to wait five years before they were eligible to apply for
citizenship.

A flood of citizenship applications from the mid-1990s when many amnesty
recipients became eligible to apply then overwhelmed many INS offices across the
country, creating backlogs that made some residents wait two to three years in
places such as Los Angeles and Dallas for their applications to be processed.

The backlog reached up to two years at its worst in Minnesota and the Dakotas,
but the local INS office now has it down to about nine months.

Aljets said the nine-month wait is about the minimum amount of time possible
because the paperwork must be processed by a regional INS office in Nebraska.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Minnesota State Fair 1999

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Goihl, Pioneer Press
Girma Zemedhin, 35, was among 60 immigrants naturalized Friday during
ceremonies at the Minnesota State Fair. Zemedhin was born in Ethiopia
and applied for U.S. citizenship a year ago. The ethnic Eritrean
arrived in the United States in 1990 to reunite with other family
members, who are naturalized citizens. "There is a future inside of
me now," he said.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     September 5, 1999 Sunday CITY EDITION

UNFAMILIAR TERRITORY;
FOR MANY IMMIGRANTS, JOB-HUNTING DRIVES HOME THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CULTURES.

BYLINE: Amy Lindgren, St. Paul Pioneer Press

SECTION: JOBS; Pg. 1M

LENGTH: 748 words


Imagine for a moment that you don't know English, but you need to find a job.
How will you make your way through the want ads? Perhaps you would use a
bilingual dictionary.

Then, imagine that you are not literate in your native language, either, or that
no translation dictionary exists for your dialect. Now what?

Language is just one of many barriers faced by immigrant job-seekers in the
United States. Cultural differences, religious practices, family pressures,
transportation and child-care issues also play a role. Immigrants who are
refugees from war may have physical disabilities or psychological trauma to
contend with. And, like all job-seekers, immigrants face the rising use of
technology in the workplace and the need for computer literacy.

Teresa Sicsik-Owens is luckier than most immigrants. She speaks English well,
she is married to a native U.S. citizen who can act as a cultural interpreter
when needed, and she had traveled broadly in the United States before leaving
her home in Mexico.

Despite these advantages, she had difficulty with some adjustments, especially
in the workplace. In particular, she says, the technology is far more advanced
here than it was in most Mexican companies. To compensate, she studied computer
books at the library and then practiced on a system her husband brought home.

In the United States just a few years, Sicsik-Owens already has had several
positions. One company closed, another laid her off and another job was not what
she thought. Despite these setbacks, she remains enthusiastic.

"There are so many jobs here, it's just neat," she says. "If you do a good
search, you can find something. This week, I had two or three interviews every
day."

Naomi Perman, a St. Paul immigration attorney, believes Sicsik-Owens fits the
profile of most immigrant workers in the United States.

"We have this image that immigrants are all low-level, undocumented workers,"
she says. "There's a whole lot of people who come here with advanced skills.
They enrich the marketplace and the knowledge base."

Not everyone comes to the United States to work. Tou Ger Xiong's family fled the
fighting in Laos, where Xiong's father had served with the CIA. Now he, his
parents and his 10 siblings are making their way through the customs of a
country their ancestors had never heard of.

"The culture gap isn't just western vs. Hmong," Xiong says. "It's also country
vs. city and lower class vs. middle class."

Like most Hmong, Xiong's family were farmers in Laos. In America, they are like
pioneers, exploring language, food, city housing and the concept of jobs all at
once.

Xiong, who was 7 when the family immigrated, has had the advantage of time and
youth in making the adjustment. At 26, he has carved a niche for himself as a
cultural interpreter. Through his St. Paul-based company, Project Respectism, he
combines Hmong storytelling, rap music and comedy in educational performances
for audiences nationwide.

Although Hmong comedians are not common, storytelling is a respected activity in
Xiong's culture. By combining the two arts, he is able to reach both Hmong and
U.S. born audiences with his message.

"It's a good way to tell people about the Hmong," he says, "but also to help our
elders understand more about this country and the path their children must take
here."

Advice for immigrants seeking work
These tips come from Teresa Sicsik-Owens as well as Gayle Saeks of Jewish Family
Service of St. Paul.

First, you must get authorization to work in the United States. To learn about
this process, meet with an immigration attorney. Or contact a social service
agency specializing in your nationality. To find such an agency, call the First
Call for Help at (800) 543-7709.

Learn as much English as you can. Saeks suggests enrollment in an English as a
Second Language class. For more information on the classes her agency holds,
call (651) 698-0767.

Pick up some computer skills.

Make use of the job lines, Internet postings and job fairs.

Talk with others of your nationality. Where are they working? Can they introduce
you to their boss?

Don't be afraid of the entry-level job. A lower-level job can help you get used
to the culture and the language.

Amy Lindgren is president of Prototype Career Services, a St. Paul firm
specializing in career transition and job search strategy. E-mail her at
getajob@prototypecareerservice.com or see her Web site,
www.prototypecareerservice.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Oden, Pioneer Press
SPECIAL EVENT: Tou Ger Xiong will give a comedy, rap, lecture performance on the

Hmong in America from 7:30 to 10 a.m. Thursday at the Fairview Community
Center as part of the quarterly Breakfast Series sponsored by PrototypeCareer
Services. From 10:30 to 11:30 a.m., a panel of speakers will include
immigration attorney Naomi Perman; Gayle Saeks, Jewish Family Service of St.
Paul; and Ytmar Santiago, executive director of Chicano Latino Affairs
Council. The event includes continental breakfast and costs $10-$25. To
reserve a space, call (651) 224-2856.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 16, 1999 Thursday

'90S BROUGHT CITIES WAVE OF IMMIGRANTS;
UNITED WAY REPORT NOTES AREA TRENDS

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 1076 words


Immigration climbed dramatically in the Twin Cities over the past decade,
fueling a nearly 50 percent increase in the number of foreign-born residents in
Minnesota overall, according to a new report from the United Way of the
Minneapolis Area.

In 1990, Minnesota had 113,039 foreign-born residents, but by 1996, their
numbers had increased to 165,602, the report said, using estimates from the U.S.
Census Bureau and the Minnesota Planning Department. Since then, officials say,
the trends have continued, but no specific numbers are available.

The United Way report concentrates on Hispanic, Hmong and Somali immigrants, but
some of its population estimates could include second- and even third-generation
members born in the United States.

It's generally accepted that Minnesota's low unemployment and relative abundance
of entry-level jobs that don't require complete fluency in English have
persuaded many immigrants to relocate from other parts of the country.
Relocation has given Minnesota the country's largest Somalian population, and it
drained a sizable chunk of the Hmong population from California over the past
few years, the report notes.

According to the report, more Hispanics are living in the west metro area -
32,000 as of 1997 in Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin and Scott counties. Since
1990, there has been a 220 percent increase in the number of Latino children
enrolled in Minneapolis public schools, the report said.

State demographers believe some of the estimates of Hispanics in the west metro
area are too high - for instance, one advocacy group estimated Minneapolis'
share of the state's 125,000 Hispanics at 31,600 to 37,920.

Applying the group's same calculations to St. Paul's Hispanic population shows
it might now stand at 24,100 to 28,920, said Michael Blotevogel, research and
planning associate for the Minneapolis United Way and the lead author of the
report. The State Demographic Center had no comparable recent estimates of St.
Paul or the east metro's Hispanic population.

The report also notes other disagreements over estimates. Hmong community
leaders believe there are 60,000 Hmong in the Twin Cities, with two-thirds of
them in St. Paul and 10,000 to 15,000 of them arriving in the mid-1990s from
Fresno, Calif., another center of Hmong population.

However, the Planning Department estimates that there are only 60,000 Hmong in
the entire state.

Immigration and refugee experts believe that half the Somalis in the United
States live in Minnesota, the overwhelming majority in Minneapolis. But while
Minnesota's Human Services Department estimates their numbers at 15,000, the
Planning Department believes the number is only 6,000, though increasing by
1,000 a year, the report noted.

All the findings in the report are drawn from a wide variety of previously
published and unpublished research from other sources, including the Census
Bureau, the State Demographic Center, the Urban Coalition, school districts and
ethnic community advocacy groups. The United Way report assembled them to try to
draw a more comprehensive picture of how immigration is affecting the Twin
Cities.

Terri Barreiro, senior director for United Way community services, said the
nonprofit agency created the study to help it better focus its efforts to help
an increasing diverse community.

Despite the dramatic increases in immigration, however, the United Way report
notes that, overall, the Twin Cities have fewer foreign-born residents as a
percentage of the total population in comparison with other metropolitan areas
across the country.

In the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan statistical area, 3.5 percent of the
population was foreign-born in 1990. By comparison, an average of 9.5 percent of
the population were immigrants in all metropolitan areas in the United States.

"Contrary to the common perception, the Twin Cities are not experiencing a flood
of immigration," the report states. "The perception of massive immigration is
fueled by the increase that haImmigration rising in Twin Cities
The Twin Cities are experiencing dramatic increases in some immigrant
populations, the United Way of the Minneapolis Area says. However, the overall
picture shows that the Twin Cities have fewer foreign-born residents as a
percentage of the total population in comparison with the waves of immigration
at the turn of the century and with other metropolitan areas around the country
now.

Numbers of immigrants rises dramatically in the 1990s

1990 - 113,039 foreign-born residents in Minnesota.

1996 - 165,602 foreign-born residents in Minnesota. An increase of 52,563 or
nearly 50 percent.

Comparisons with other metropolitan areas

1990 - 3.5 percent of Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan statistical area
population are foreign-born.

1990 - an average of 9.5 percent of the population in all metropolitan areas in
the United States were foreign-born.

Historical context:

1990 - 6 percent of Minneapolis' population was foreign-born.

1890 - 37 percent of Minneapolis' population was foreign-born.

Hispanics:

More Hispanics are now living in the West Metro area - 32,000 as of 1997 in
Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin and Scott counties, according to the State
Demographic Center, using data furnished by the Census Bureau.

Since 1990, there has been a 220 percent increase in the number of Latino
children enrolled in Minneapolis Public Schools.

Hmong:

Estimates vary. Hmong community leaders believe there are 60,000 Hmong in the
Twin Cities, with two-thirds of them in St. Paul. An estimated 10,000-15,000
arrived in the mid-1990s, most believed to have come from Fresno, Calif.,
another center of Hmong population. Meanwhile, the State Planning Department
estimates that there are only 60,000 in the entire state, with most living in
the Twin Cities and Rochester.

Somali

Estimates for the Somali population are difficult to determine. Minnesota's
Human Services Department estimates their numbers at 15,000 but the state
Planning Department believes the number is only 6,000, but increasing by 1,000 a
year. Some people believe half the Somalis in the United States live in
Minneapolis, with the overwhelming majority in Minneapolis.

- Source: United Way of Minneapolis Area

s occurred since 1990 and the unique characteristics of many of the Twin Cities
immigrants."

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 17, 1999 Friday

THREE HARSH 1996 LAWS MAR CITIZENSHIP DAY

BYLINE: Miriam Stein, Commentator

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 670 words


Today is Citizenship Day, but none of the 10 people in my unscientific poll had
ever heard of it. Nor did any of them have any inkling that it is the first day
of Constitution Week, which runs through Sept. 23.

Perhaps these native-born Americans don't think of the significance of
Citizenship Day, which commemorates the Sept. 17, 1787, signing of the
Constitution, because they take their rights as Americans for granted.
Part of the reason Congress created Citizenship Day in 1952, which evolved from
New Citizens Day, was to recognize immigrants' important contributions to this
country. In 1910, immigrants accounted for almost 15 percent of the population.
Today, they tally about 10 percent. Some traveled to our shores to escape
religious or political persecution. Others fled hunger and starvation or
journeyed here to work for a better life for themselves and their families. Each
year, 800,000 immigrants and refugees arrive in the United States.

Immigrants make important financial contributions to our economy. According to
the National Academy of Sciences, immigrants, on average, pay $1,800 more in
taxes each year than they use in services. Huge contributors to Social Security
and Medicare, immigrants will pay nearly $500 billion into the Social Security
system from 1998 through 2022, a 1998 study by the National Immigration Forum
and the Cato Institute reports. Most spend their prime working years here, and
only 3 percent of immigrants are over 65.

On this 212th anniversary of the signing of the Constitution, close to 1,000
immigrants from around the country will converge on Washington in a national day
of support for immigrant rights.

With some immigrants and refugees visiting public officials for the first time
in their lives, the delegations hope to implore their lawmakers to repair three
1996 laws that created a new, harsh, unequal system of justice for noncitizens,
no matter how long they have lived in the United States and no matter how
difficult their circumstances are.

Damage wrought by the new laws digs deep into the daily life of newcomers. The
harm stretches from perilous denials of food stamps for hungry people to no
Supplemental Security Income for elders who become disabled.

In a particularly anti-family twist, some immigrants living in the United States
whose visas have expired but who otherwise qualify for a green card through
their permanent-resident spouse must return to their country of origin to apply.
This means that children face long separations from their parents, and financial
difficulties are unavoidable.

The 1996 deportation laws passed by Congress punish some unfortunate noncitizens
for minor offenses. Most of these immigrants have already served their time or
received a suspended sentence.

Olaleye, a legal permanent resident from Nigeria here since 1984, was picked up
for shoplifting when she tried to return baby outfits worth $14.99 without a
receipt. According to Olaleye, she pleaded guilty to the charge, hoping to end
her ordeal quickly. She was fined $360 and received a 12-month suspended
sentence.

But under the 1996 laws, which redefined the seriousness of offenses by the
length of the sentence, Olaleye's one-year sentence, even though suspended,
makes her automatically deportable.

Immigrants and refugees will also be calling for restoration of basic safety-net
benefits, including Medicaid and food stamps.

On Citizenship Day, we need to be grateful for the rights we have, and we should
not be stingy in extending benefits to those who hope, one day, to join us as
citizens.

Stein is director of communications at the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition. Rangita de Silva de Alwes and Margery Colten from the
organization contributed to this article. The authors can be reached in care of
the Progressive Media Project at pmproj@progressive.org or at its offices at 409
E. Main St., Madison, Wis. 53703. Distributed for the project by KRT News
Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 17, 1999 Friday

DRUG THEFT OPENS DOOR TO L.A. COP CORRUPTION SCANDAL

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 270 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A policeman's conviction for stealing cocaine from an evidence locker has
exploded into a wide investigation of a frame-up, drug dealing and other crimes
allegedly covered up by a code of silence in the Los Angeles Police Department.

Ten officers and a police supervisor have been suspended in two internal
investigations into corruption within the department.

And federal authorities announced Thursday they would conduct their own
investigation into what is believed to be one of the biggest corruption scandals
in LAPD history.

The police department declined to detail the allegations against the suspended
officers, but unidentified sources quoted by the Los Angeles Times said they are
suspected of a variety of crimes, from active participation in drug deals to
code-of-silence violations that allowed delinquent behavior to go unpunished.

Last week, former officer Rafael A. Perez pleaded guilty to stealing eight
pounds of cocaine from an evidence locker. As part of the plea bargain, he is
spilling details and naming names.

Perez reportedly told investigators that he and former partner Nino Durden
planted a .22-caliber rifle on an unarmed illegal immigrant after shooting him
in October 1996.

The 22-year-old immigrant, Javier Francisco Ovando, was ordered released from
prison on Thursday. He was to be turned over to immigration authorities for a
deportation hearing.

All of the investigations have targeted the department's Rampart Station, which
covers an eight-square-mile area just west of downtown Los Angeles that is home
to many recent immigrants from Latin America and Asia.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 28, 1999 Tuesday

A FAMILY AFFAIR;
IN THE MOUNDS VIEW SCHOOL DISTRICT, A NEW PROGRAM TEACHES PRESCHOOLERS ENGLISH
AND INVOLVES THEIR PARENTS.

BYLINE: Cynthia Boyd, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 754 words


Three-year-old Nikolay Petkov, an immigrant from Bulgaria, speaks only a few
words of English: "OK," "thank you," "let's go" and "please" among them.

But that is about to change.

Nikolay and his mother, Eliza Petkova, are students in a pilot program that
combines preschool classes for youngsters, parenting and culture classes for
their parents and English language instruction for both generations. The program
is offered through Mounds View schools and the Early Childhood Family Education
Program.

Six months ago, Petkova, her husband, Antoniy Petkov, and their two sons lived
in Bulgaria. Then they won the lottery: an Immigration Service green card that
enabled them to come to the United States to live and work.

They wanted a better standard of living and an American education for their
children, she said.

Now the couple, both of whom are engineers, are learning how to be Americans.
Until they can improve their English, he works as an aluminum fabricator for
Stylmark, a local company, and she works as a package handler for United Parcel
Service. Their 6-year old son, Roumen, is learning English in classes at Belair
Elementary School in New Brighton. But until now there were no such classes for
younger children.

Many families speak English as a second language in the Mounds View school
district, where 40 foreign languages are spoken among students. How well English
is spoken varies. But the fact is that once the children in those families reach
school age, the public schools must teach them.

So, why not, asked Heidi Thorstenson, supervisor of the district's school
readiness program, reach out to non-English speaking families with preschoolers?

The program, she said, "meets a growing need in our school district to serve
bilingual parents who want to be involved in their child's education and improve
their reading, writing and speaking skills." It is funded in part by the
Suburban Ramsey Family Services Collaborative.

Classes started this month at the New Brighton Family Service Center. Students
meet Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoons for 2 1/2 hours. On Tuesdays,
for an hour, parent and child interact in a nursery school setting. The next two
days, parents meet separately to practice English and learn about American
schools while the youngsters learn English and how to play with their peers.

The children met last week in a room decorated with bright colors and the
letters of the alphabet. Children painted at an easel, played in a sandbox or
dressed in costumes. They listened to their mothers read them stories or joined
them in play.

Three-year-old Hanjoo Lee wrapped a baby doll in a bright quilt.

"Wow, good job!" her mother, Young Lee, said with a smile. Then the woman from
South Korea turned to a number board. "Can you count? One, two, three," she
said, waiting for a response.

"You as parents are your child's first teacher," preschool teacher Margi
Coullard told the adults. She led 10 mothers and their children in songs and
play.

Some other Minnesota school districts have similar programs for young children,
but "they aren't as common as we would like them to be," said Lois Engstrom, who
heads state Early Childhood and Family Education Programs. State money to pay
for such programs is not available, she said.

In the Roseville school district, the Family Learning Program begins its second
year at Edgerton Elementary School in Maplewood. There, parents and their
children, from birth through elementary school, meet Thursday nights. They eat
supper together before turning to their schooling. Eleven Hmong families with 27
children learn English, do homework and play.

"Parents do want to learn English, but the biggest reason they attend is to show
their kids education is valuable," said Dawn Weisz, the Roseville program
coordinator. Last year, the parents' skill levels in English speaking, reading
and writing improved and children turned in more homework and it was more
complete, she said.

Roseville parents also learned how to deal with schools, teachers and issues
such as absenteeism, parent teacher conferences and homework. In turn, Hmong
parents were able to teach educators about Hmong customs and practices.

The Mounds View program also covers such issues. English as a Second Language
teacher Jo Sanders said parents will do such things as role play parent-teacher
conferences and learn about American schools and their ways.
Cynthia Boyd can be reached at cboyd@pioneerpress.com or (651) 481-0406.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version appeared in City Edition on Page 2B.

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: Joe Oden, Pioneer Press
1) Margi Coullard, a preschool and parenting teacher, uses a picture
frame to make a point to the parents and preschool children at the
Family Service Center in New Brighton. The new outreach effort is
sponsored by the Mounds View schools Early Childhood Family Education
program. English language classes are for both the children and
parents, preschool classes for the youngsters and parenting and
culture classes for the parents.
2) Khanh Trinh of Shoreview reads to her son, Tony Phung, 3, at the
Family Service Center in New Brighton.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 2, 1999 Saturday

CAMPAIGN AIMS TO RAISE AWARENESS ABOUT IMMIGRANTS;
MINNEAPOLIS FOUNDATION TARGETS COLD WELCOME

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 617 words


When Minnesotans think about the state's recent immigrants, are they warm and
friendly "Minnesota Nice" - or ice?

That's a question the Minneapolis Foundation wants Minnesotans to ask themselves
when it unveils a new public information campaign on Sunday called "Minnesota,
Nice or Not?"

"We're trying to make people self-aware," said Emmett Carson, foundation
president and chief executive officer. "We want to turn back the mirror on the
reader. We want them to ask, 'Is this my behavior?"'

Part of the campaign involves newspaper ads and posters, one which shows a trio
of smiling Somali women and says: "Maybe you're just not sure what to make of
all these new Minnesotans bringing in all these strange new cultures and
customs.

"But hey, have you ever really thought about lutefisk?"

Immigration has become a major issue in Minnesota due to recent increases,
especially of immigrants from Africa, Asia and the former Soviet Union, Carson
said. The foundation decided to launch the campaign to improve the state's
response to its changing demographics.

Two weeks ago, the United Way of the Minneapolis Area reported that immigration
had increased by nearly 50 percent in the state over the past decade. Immigrant
numbers reached 165,602 by 1996, according to estimates from the U.S. Census
Bureau and the Minnesota Planning Department.

Despite the jump, there are far fewer foreign-born residents in Twin Cities
compared with other metro areas around country. Immigrants made up only 3.5
percent of the population in Twin Cities in 1990, compared with 9.5 percent for
U.S. metropolitan areas generally and double-digit percentages in richly
multiethnic cities like Los Angeles, New York and Miami.

"New York and California long ago accepted that they are multicultural," Carson
said. "Minnesota is changing, and that's frightening for some people. But we
think it's an opportunity."

The campaign begins Sunday with a Minnesota, Nice or Not? full-page ad appearing
in the Minneapolis-based Star Tribune. The ads will appear in Mpls/St. Paul
magazine and Twin Cities Business Monthly and as posters in Twin Cities bus
shelters throughout October.

The foundation also is offering 30,000 copies of a free booklet titled
"Immigration in Minnesota," which features an essay by author and public radio
host Garrison Keillor and information about the four largest groups of recent
immigrants to Minnesota - Hmong, Mexicans, Russians and Somali. Minnesota is
believed to have the nation's largest urban Hmong population and its largest
concentration of Somali immigrants.

Ilene Her, executive director of the State Council on Asian Pacific Minnesotans
and a trustee of the foundation, said that even though the Hmong have been in
Minnesota for a quarter century, she still finds widespread ignorance about
Hmong culture and traditions.

"We are seen as a country that welcomes immigrants, but do we do that? Do we
have a personal relationship with new arrivals - or do we let them struggle?"
she said.

Amal Yusuf, executive director and founder of the Somalian Women's Association,
said sometimes Americans assume newcomers know more than they do.

"I hope the campaign will help people to understand some of the barriers and
background we face," Yusuf said. "I hope it will give Minnesotans a clearer
picture of where we're coming from, what we're going through and what are issues
are."

The Minneapolis Foundation produced the campaign with financial support from the
Star Tribune, MSP Communications, the Ford Foundation, the Stewart Mott
Foundation and the General Mills Foundation.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The booklet in conjunction with the "Minnesota, Nice
or Not?" campaign can be ordered by calling the Minneapolis
Foundation at (612) 672-3869. The foundation will include the booklet
contents and the ad campaign on its Internet site (mplsfoundation.org)
later this month.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 15, 1999 Friday

ASIANS LEAD IMMIGRANTS IN INCOMES;
GROUP ALSO EXCEEDS NATIVE-BORN IN U.S.

BYLINE: RANDOLPH E. SCHMID, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Asian immigrants are the best-off financially of all foreign-born Americans,
with median incomes higher even than native-born Americans, the Census Bureau
says.

For all households with a foreign-born householder, the median in 1997 was
$30,000, compared with $36,100 for households with a native householder, the
agency said in a report being released today. For Asian-Americans, the median
household income - meaning half the households earned more and half less - was
$42,900.

By comparison, householders from Europe had a median income of $31,300, while it
was $24,100 where they were from Latin America, the report said.

"The foreign-born population of the United States at the end of the 20th century
cannot be neatly categorized, but we do see links between region of birth and
measures of social and economic well-being," said A. Dianne Schmidley, co-author
with Campbell Gibson of "Profile of the Foreign-Born Population of the United
States: 1997."

The official poverty rate was 21.0 percent for the foreign-born population in
1996, compared with 12.9 percent for the native population.

Among the foreign-born, poverty rates ranged from 12.7 percent for those from
Europe to 14.7 percent for Asians and 15.1 percent for Latin Americans.

Among people ages 25 and over, 65.3 percent of the foreign-born population had a
high school education compared with 84.4 percent of native-born Americans. The
proportion was 83.9 percent of the foreign-born from Asia, 78.9 percent of those
from Europe and 47.0 percent of those from Latin America.

The report said that in 1996, about 17.0 percent of native householders
participated in one or more means-tested noncash programs, such as Medicaid.

Among foreign-born householders, those participating in these programs were 13.9
percent of those from Europe, 17.5 percent of those from Asia and 21.4 percent
of those from Latin America.

In March 1997, about 30.1 percent of native workers were in managerial and
professional specialty occupations. These occupations accounted for 37.8 percent
of the workers from Europe, 35.8 percent from Asia and 11.4 percent from Latin
America.

The Census study also said that barely one-third of the nation's immigrants have
obtained citizenship, a smaller share than at any time in the past century,
raising questions about how well the record numbers of immigrants arriving here
are integrating into American life.

Only 35 percent of the foreign-born people in the United States in 1997 were
naturalized citizens, compared with 64 percent in 1970.

By comparison, at the height of the nation's last great wave of immigration in
the early part of this century, about half of the foreign-born population
nationally had become citizens.

This report includes information from the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version appeared in City Edition on Page 10A.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 21, 1999 Thursday

MAN SUSPECTED IN RENO PLOT ORDERED FREED;
JUDGE: PALESTINIAN WAS ILLEGALLY JAILED

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


A federal judge ordered the government Wednesday to release a Palestinian
accused of plotting to kill Attorney General Janet Reno, ruling he had been
unconstitutionally detained for 19 months by secret evidence.

U.S. District Judge William Walls is the first federal judge to reject the
government's long-standing practice of detaining or deporting immigrants based
on evidence it refuses to share, lawyers who follow immigration say.

The government's argument "ignores the axiomatic, constitutional premise that
aliens, once legally admitted into the United States, are entitled to the
shelter of the Constitution," Walls wrote in his ruling.

David Cole, the Georgetown law professor who represents Hany Kiareldeen, called
the ruling "a substantial victory, not only for all immigrants, but for fairness
in government proceedings."

Walls ordered the immediate release of Kiareldeen, 31, of Passaic, who was
arrested for overstaying a student visa, then detained on suspicion of plotting
to kill Reno.

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service obtained a stay of Walls' order
Wednesday evening from a federal appeals court. Arguments were scheduled for
today, and Kiareldeen remained in federal custody for another night at the
Hudson County Jail

"We've maintained all along that he is a danger," immigration service spokesman
Bill Strassberger said.

Kiareldeen, who has been jailed since March 1998, was never charged with a plot
on Reno's life. But the government has detained him and has been trying to
deport him based on the secret evidence.

Summaries of the evidence given to immigration judges said Kiareldeen made a
"credible threat" to kill Reno because of her role in prosecuting the bombers of
the World Trade Center and that he is a suspected member of an unnamed terrorist
organization.

Kiareldeen has testified that he does not know any of the men convicted in the
Trade Center bombing and did not know who Reno was until he was arrested.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 22, 1999 Friday

STATE LOOKS AT CENTURY'S DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES;
MINNESOTA MORE DIVERSE, POPULATION GROWS MORE SLOWLY

BYLINE: ASHLEY H. GRANT, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 405 words


During the past century, Minnesota's population growth has slowed and
immigration has shifted to include a more diverse group of people, according to
a report released Thursday by the Minnesota Planning agency.

Minnesota's population was about 1.75 million in 1900, compared with 4.78
million today.

Only about 28 percent of Minnesotans lived in the seven-county Twin Cities area,
compared with 53 percent now, according to the report "Turn of the Century:
Minnesota's Population in 1900 and Today."

"Since we are heading into a new century, this is a good time to take stock of
how our population has changed," said state demographer Tom Gillaspy. The report
was based on the 1900 census and other documents.

In 1900, Minnesota's population had posted a 33.7 percent gain over 1890, well
above the national average of 20.7 percent. Between 1990 and 1998, Minnesota's
population grew only 8 percent, below the national average of 8.7 percent.

The median age in 1900 was 22, compared with 35.2 in 1998. And men outnumbered
women 113.7 to 100, mainly because men made up a majority of the immigrant
population. Today, women slightly outnumber men.

More than 500,000 Minnesotans were foreign-born in 1900, 29 percent of the total
population. A majority of the remainder had at least one, and most cases two,
foreign-born parents. Only 25 percent of the population was native-born with
native-born parents.

In 1990, the number of foreign-born Minnesotans was 113,039.

At the turn of the century, two-thirds of the foreign-born population in
Minnesota were from one of three countries: Germany, Sweden or Norway.

In 1990, the three top-ranking sources of immigrants - Laos, Canada and Vietnam
- accounted for only 29 percent of the foreign-born population.

Minnesota was extremely racially homogeneous in 1900, with a 99.2 percent white
population. Only 14,358 Minnesotans were identified as "colored," a category
that included anyone who was not white.

The largest nonwhite racial group was American Indian, at 9,182, followed by
4,959 blacks.

Minnesota has become more racially diverse. But with an estimated 8 percent
nonwhite or Hispanic, the state remained far below the national average of 28
percent in 1998.

Blacks were the largest minority group in Minnesota in 1998, with about 146,000,
followed by Asians and Pacific Islanders at 124,000, Hispanics at 87,000 and
American Indians at 57,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version appeared in City Edition on Page 1B.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 18, 1999 Thursday

MEETING CHALLENGES;
HONORS ARE BEING PRESENTED THIS WEEK TO SOME MINNESOTANS WHO HAVE OVERCOME
ADVERSITY AND THOSE WHO HELPED THEM SUCCEED.;
MINNESOTA: TWO WOMEN HELP IMMIGRANTS OVERCOME THE OBSTACLES OF STARTING NEW
LIVES IN AMERICA.

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 841 words


Denise Gubrud and Margarita "Maggie" Reese aren't social workers, but they've
done so much for the rapidly growing immigrant community in their northwestern
Minnesota town of Pelican Rapids that they could be.

On Friday, they will be recognized along with nine other people at the 15th
annual McKnight Foundation Awards in Human Services, honoring people who make
sacrifices to make life better for others in their community.

Gubrud and Reese will share one of the 10 awards honoring what the McKnight
Foundation considers the state's leading unsung heroes. Unlike many of the
people nominated, they belong to no organized service group or agency. They are,
in effect, their own two-woman service.

Gubrud, a 40-year-old secretary at West Central Turkey Co., a processing plant
and the town's largest employer, has become expert at helping newcomers navigate
the bureaucratic immigration maze. She's helped people fill out the mounds of
paperwork necessary to reunify their families - one application weighed 5 1/2
pounds when it was mailed out at the post office.

Gubrud also has accompanied new families on daylong shopping trips to the local
Wal-Mart to help them sort through the bewildering array of American goods. She
even coached a pregnant Bosnian woman through childbirth last April, using her
ungrammatical but serviceable Bosnian in the delivery room.

Reese, 39, a native of Mexico who became a citizen last year, works at the
turkey plant in the summers and serves as a bilingual aide in the local
elementary school the rest of the year. She was recently credited in the local
newspaper with raising the retention rate of Hispanic students in the schools.

Reese has organized clothing drives and other fund-raisers for struggling
immigrants, including one recent dinner for the family of a friend with cancer.
It attracted a larger than expected crowd and raised $4,500.

Neither woman thinks what they do is all that amazing or noteworthy.

"It's nobody's job and everybody's job because we're all part of the community,"
Gubrud said of her volunteer work. She credits many other people in the town
with making what she does possible.

"It's a good feeling helping somebody out - and it's a good time," said Reese.
She noted that because Pelican Rapids has few bilingual residents, "Someone
needed to come forward, and for some reason, it's me."

Donna Richgels, a social worker, nominated the two women for the McKnight Award
and said they epitomized an old-fashioned idea of help.

"I believe if it weren't for Denise, Otter Tail County (to which Pelican Rapids
belongs) would have to hire a full-time social worker just to deal with
immigration," said Richgels, who lives in Pelican Rapids but works in
neighboring Becker County as head of that county's children's services.

Pelican Rapids has seen an explosion in the diversity of its 2,000 residents,
the women said. Ten years ago, the town was nearly all white, but employment
opportunities at the turkey processing plant have attracted over the past
several years scores of immigrants from Mexico, Laos, Somalia, Sudan, Bosnia,
Kosovo, Iraq and Russia.

Most longtime residents accept the newcomers, but there have been tensions, the
women said.

"That's why the work Maggie and Denise do is so critical," said Richgels.
"They're not solving all the problems, but I really think they're helping to
avert some really ugly stuff."

The other recipients of the 1999 Virginia McKnight Binger Awards in Human
Services are:

Henry Bruns, Arden Hills, for helping men work through emotional problems as a
volunteer at The Men's Center in South Minneapolis.

Ernesto DelVillar Sr., Minneapolis, for giving help and encouragement to Head
Start children and their parents at Parents in Community Action.

Marcelle Diedrich, West St. Paul, for providing support, advice and expertise to
advocates for battered women.

Darlene Edwards, Barnesville, for bringing support services and a sense of
community to families in public housing in Minneapolis.

Phoenix Hill, St. Paul, for motivating and encouraging women on public
assistance through the organization Sister to Sister.

Geraldine Hull, Duluth, for pioneering respite care in northeastern Minnesota
for parents of children with disabilities.

Ardis Knutson, Blooming Prairie, for working at a community center to strengthen
a town that has been challenged by diversity issues related to Hispanic
newcomers.

Yako Myers, Minneapolis, for counseling American Indians about health and
spiritual issues.

Joyce Segelbaum, St. Louis Park, for helping Jewish people overcome addictions
by founding the Jewish Recovery Network.

The McKnight Foundation, created in 1953, is Minnesota's largest grant-making
institution. Founded by former 3M Co. chairman William McKnight and his wife,
Maude, it awards $80 million a year in grants and is best known for its support
of community and family programs.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos
Gubrud Reese

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 18, 1999 Thursday

ANATOLE RABCEVICH, IMMIGRANT FROM POLAND, WAS FAMILY DOCTOR IN ST. PAUL

BYLINE: BILL GARDNER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 311 words


Anatole Rabcevich, who came to the United States as an immigrant from Eastern
Europe and later treated many immigrants as a family physician in St. Paul, died
Tuesday of a heart attack. He was 75.

Rabcevich was born in Poland and was a teen-ager during World War II, when the
Germans and Russians fought over the country. His family was in a displaced
peoples' camp in Germany for five years after the war, and Rabcevich attended
medical school at the University of Munich.

He was 25 when he and his parents arrived in the United States in 1949. They
moved to St. Paul, where Rabcevich washed dishes at the St. Paul Athletic Club
and attended the University of Minnesota medical school.

In 1955, Rabcevich opened a family practice on White Bear Avenue in St. Paul and
attracted many immigrants who heard about him by word of mouth.

"He spoke five languages," said his wife, Anna. "He had so many immigrants
because they could communicate with him."

Rabcevich also served two years with the U.S. Navy as a physician and stayed in
the Naval Reserve until he retired in 1985 as a commander.

In 1986, Rabcevich joined the staff at the state hospital at St. Peter and moved
to the state hospital at Cambridge in 1988. He retired in 1989.

Rabcevich enjoyed chess and table tennis. He was also quite musical and played
the piano and accordion. He loved Russian folk songs and liturgical music, his
wife said.

Rabcevich's son, Philip, 17, was featured last month in a Pioneer Press story
about his talents on the piano.

Rabcevich was 58 when he married Anna, a Polish immigrant. He is survived by his
wife and son. The family lives in Maplewood.

Visitation will be from 6-8 p.m. Friday at the Kozlak-Radulovich funeral chapel
in Minneapolis.

Funeral services are at 10 a.m. Saturday at St. Panteleimon Russian Orthodox
Church in Minneapolis.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 14, 1999 Tuesday

U.S. OFFICIALS MEET FATHER OF RESCUED CUBAN BOY

SECTION: MAIN; Foreign Briefing; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 132 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


With report cards, birth certificates and family videos in hand, the father of a
6-year-old Cuban boy caught between two estranged nations took a major step
toward reclaiming his child Monday. But U.S. and Cuban officials indicated that
they failed to resolve the broader issues behind the international custody
battle. Juan Miguel Gonzalez met with U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service officers in his hometown of Cardenas to prove that he is, in fact, the
father of Elian Gonzalez, who was rescued at sea off the Florida coast on
Thanksgiving Day. On Monday, after meeting with Cuban officials in Havana, a
senior U.S. State Department representative told reporters that immigration
officials in Washington will decide the boy's fate as a normal "immigration
proceeding."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          December 22, 1999 Wednesday

DOGS' ALERT OF EXPLOSIVES LED TO ARREST IN VERMONT;
BUT NONE FOUND IN ALGERIAN'S CAR IN VERMONT

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, VT.


Dogs sniffed out traces of what could be explosives in the car that carried an
Algerian man arrested at a tiny border station in Vermont, federal agents said
Tuesday. But searches of the car turned up nothing more.

The arrest, days after another Algerian was arrested in Washington state on
charges of carrying explosives, came at a time of heightened nationwide alert
for terrorist action coinciding with the millennial celebrations.

Both men were arrested crossing into the United States from Canada. There was no
indication the two men were linked.

Bouabide Chamchi, 20, and a Canadian woman, Lucia Garofalo, 35, were taken into
custody Sunday evening at Beecher Falls. A federal prosecutor said Garofalo has
Algerian and Libyan relatives.

Chamchi and Garofalo were charged with conspiring to use a false French passport
and other immigration violations. A federal magistrate ordered them held until
another hearing Thursday.

In court papers released Tuesday, a Border Patrol agent, John Pfeifer, said that
two dogs trained to sniff out explosives separately indicated there might be
explosives in the right rear fender of Garofalo's car. One dog was trained to
detect plastic explosives, and the other dog was trained to detect black powder
explosives.

But after the car was searched, nothing was found, said Noel Induni, agent in
charge of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in St. Albans.

The dogs may have smelled traces left from explosives previously transported in
the car, or perhaps other materials such as fertilizers or household cleaners,
he said.

The search of the car also turned up a fraudulent French passport, authorities
said. Earlier reports said inaccurately that Chamchi had been carrying false
Canadian papers.

Induni said that last Wednesday, Garofalo had tried to cross from Canada into
New Hampshire with a different man, but they were turned away because the man
did not have proper identification and their car held more luggage than was
consistent with the story they gave.

Last week, an Algerian man was arrested while trying to enter Port Angeles,
Wash., on a ferry from Victoria, British Columbia. Authorities said Ahmed Ressam
had nitroglycerin and other potential bomb-making materials in his car and was
traveling on a false passport.

Charles Tetzlaff, U.S. attorney for Vermont, said Tuesday that there was no
evidence linking the two incidents.

The Customs Service has transferred 300 employees to help check for explosives
at border crossings.

The heightened security has made it more difficult to enter the country for at
least some people of Arab origin.

At the Ambassador Bridge in Detroit, where traffic was otherwise flowing freely,
an Algerian family was stopped for 45 minutes.

"They have the right to ask because some idiot, they do some bad things," said
Freddy Zouki, who is from Algeria but works for a Montreal oil company. "I
absolutely agree with what they are doing."

But his wife's brother, Roger Malki, a Syrian who is a student at the University
of Montreal, was angry that agents asked them to pull over at the secondary
inspection point.

"Is this just because we are Arabs?" he asked the agent. "I'm sure they have
criteria for stopping people. I just wonder what they are."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip A. Dwyer, Associated Press
A line of cars waits to enter Blaine, Wash., at the U.S. -Canada
Border Monday. Traffic was backed up after security at the border was
increased after the capture of a suspected terrorist at the Port
Angeles, Wash., border.

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 19, 2000 Wednesday

IMMIGRATION TEARING U.S. APART, BUCHANAN SAYS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 86 words

DATELINE: YORBA LINDA, CALIF.


Reform Party presidential contender Pat Buchanan blamed "mass immigration" for a
splintering of American culture on Tuesday and pledged to stem the flow if he
captures the White House. "In too many cases, the American melting pot has been
reduced to a simmer," Buchanan told 350 people at the Richard Nixon Library &
Birthplace. "If we want to assimilate new Americans - and we have no choice if
we are going to remain one nation - we must slow down the pace of immigration,"
Nixon's former speech writer said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 25, 2000 Tuesday

THE LATINO TEST;
WHO GETS TO BE AN AMERICAN? AN INCREASINGLY DIVIDED LATINO POPULATION FINDS A
SOURCE OF CONTENTION IN IMMIGRATION.

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette Jr., Commentator

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1237 words


Six-year-old Elian Gonzalez has been in the United States for only a couple of
months, yet he's taught Americans a thing or two about division. Not
surprisingly, we are not of one mind on whether to return the boy to Cuba, and
some of the differences break along racial lines.

A recent poll by a Miami television station found that Latinos in the area
enthusiastically supported efforts to keep the boy in the United States, while
blacks and whites were just as enthusiastic about sending him back to Cuba. Some
86 percent of Latinos disagreed with the decision by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to return Elian to his father; 79 percent of black and 70
percent of whites supported it.

But the division isn't just between Latinos and non-Latinos. Rather, it spills
across the color line and into the ethnic group itself.

The debate over Elian has brought to the surface long-standing but
not-often-talked-about tensions among different types of Latinos. The tension
flared up recently during a televised exchange between two Latinos on opposite
sides of the debate. A liberal Chicano professor from San Francisco who
supported reuniting boy and father squared off against a Cuban-American woman
from the anti-Castro Cuban American National Foundation.

The Cuban-American accused the Mexican-American of employing a double standard
on immigration because he would deny Elian the right to stay in the United
States even as Chicanos scream about the "rights" of Mexican immigrants. She had
a point. After all, how do Chicano activists who support returning the boy, in
spite of his mother's drowning trying to deliver him to freedom, square their
view with the romance they harbor for Mexican immigrants who risk their lives to
travel north?

A few months earlier, many Mexican-Americans were just as baffled over the
support among Puerto Ricans in New York City for the idea of offering clemency
to a group of convicted Puerto Rican terrorists.

There long have been differences among different types of Latinos, yet it's not
a common notion. The dawn of a new millennium has prompted corporate marketers,
media, Internet companies and political strategists to toss around the slogan
"Latinos 2000" as they try to capture the attention, buying power and votes of
the 30 million Latinos in the United States with a one-size-fits-all approach.
Those efforts are bound to fail. A common language cannot overcome the divisions
stemming from different ancestries, cultures, national origins and political
priorities.

As the case of Elian illustrates, no issue defines these priorities as clearly
as immigration. Unlike other Latinos, Americans of Puerto Rican descent have
traditionally not had to think much about immigration, since their ancestral
homeland is a U.S. territory, and those who live there are U.S. citizens.

That's changing. Now that more than 300,000 Mexican immigrants live in New York
City, anxious Puerto Rican leaders are beginning to sound like white nativists
in California. A few months ago, former congressman and longtime civil-rights
figure Herman Badillo let loose with a series of ugly comments directed at the
Mexican immigrants. Dismissing the newcomers as "little people with straight
hair" who "come from the hills and have no education," Badillo signaled that
those who represent the city's Puerto Rican community are not at all interested
in sharing power with the new arrivals. His comments reflect more than economic
anxiety about immigrants taking jobs from Puerto Ricans. Badillo also worries
about the influences of a people and a culture that he clearly views as
inferior.

A similar arrogance has popped up in the immigration debate. Harvard professor
George Borjas, a Cuban-American immigrant, believes America's immigration
policies are failing not merely because they let in too many immigrants but
because they let in too many of the wrong immigrants.

In his new book "Heaven's Door," the economist uses U.S. Census data and various
studies to argue that provisions in current immigration law making family
reunification a priority have had the practical effect of increasing the flow of
legal immigrants from a handful of countries and limiting the number from
countries that have less of a foothold here. Worse, Borjas says, the people who
are getting in are mostly unskilled and uneducated, a fact he assumes will lead
to lower levels of employment, lower wages and greater dependence on welfare and
other government aid. Dismissing notions about the power of assimilation to
close the economic gap between immigrants and natives, Borjas argues that his
generalizations hold true for several generations.

As a remedy, Borjas suggests the United States consider adopting a merit-based
test for those wishing to legally immigrate. The examination, similar to ones
used in Canada, New Zealand and Australia, could measure everything from
English-speaking ability and job skills to age and the size of people's wallets
(some exams in use award additional "points" if applicants are willing to make
financial investments in the country they seek to enter).

The real problem with the Borjas argument isn't that it's elitist; that "skills"
can and should be defined in a hundred different ways apart from education and
professional training; that, since it's employers who set wages, any economic
gap that exists is just as likely an indicator of a high level of exploitation
as it is of a low skill set; and that his dismissal of assimilation flies in the
face of everything we know, and have experienced, about how immigrant
grandparents yield grandchildren who become successful doctors, lawyers,
teachers and heads of industry. The real problem is that there's little mystery
which immigrants Borjas views as the most undesirable: those from Mexico and
Central America.

Borjas, while an immigrant, misses the whole point of America. The country, at
its best, has always rewarded determination, courage and resilience. It has
sought out and welcomed those who struggle and sacrifice to get here and to
succeed once here. These are the people who built the United States in the past
two centuries and the ones who will rebuild it in the next.

It's not skill that matters. It's will.

It's that kind of will that propels Mexican immigrants across the Arizona
desert, negotiating barbed wire and cactus and rattlesnakes.

And it's that kind of will that inspired Elian's mother to step foot on a
rickety boat bound for Florida, a boat that would eventually sink, killing her
and 10 others. She's the real American in this story.

Oddly, on this issue, the gap among different types of Latinos may be closing.
On the validity of the INS ruling that the boy be returned to Cuba, the poll by
the Miami television station detected little difference between the views of
Cuban-Americans and non-Cuban Latinos; 88 percent of Cubans opposed the ruling,
along with 78 percent of those Latinos who were non-Cuban.

Some have attributed this convergence of Latino opinion to the involvement of
the INS, a government agency that has few friends among Latinos of any kind and
that may be just the sort of common enemy against which a divided people can
finally unite.
Navarrette is a student at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government and
political editor of the magazine OYE. Distributed by the Los Angeles
Times-Washington Post News Service.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 7, 2000 Monday

GROUP BEGINS IMMIGRATION PUBLIC FORUMS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 333 words


Minnesota's image as a haven for blond-haired, blue-eyed Scandinavians and
Germans has changed with the recent influx of immigrants, and the League of
Woman Voters wants residents to talk about it.

On Tuesday, the organization's Education Fund will launch "Changing Faces,
Changing Communities" - a project created to give residents a chance to talk
about the immigration of Africans, Hispanic Americans and Somalis and what it
means for the state.

During five weeks in February and March, about 2,000 people will gather in small
groups in 18 communities to discuss the impact immigration has had. In April,
they'll gather to discuss solutions.

The Tuesday meetings will be held in Edina and Rochester, and others will be
held later in such rural cities as Northfield, Willmar and Detroit Lakes.

It is thought that more Somalis and Hmong have settled in the Twin Cities than
anywhere else in the United States. Smaller towns and cities also are
experiencing rapid change. In Worthington, for instance, more than 50 languages
are spoken in schools; in Pelican Rapids, 24 languages.

Andrea Carruthers noticed change in Willmar when Hispanics and Somalis began
moving in. "Just having people walking the streets of Willmar that are not white
is a change," she said.

Carruthers, director of Willmar's community circles, led a five-week discussion
group last fall. The 12 people - a Somali woman, Hispanics and whites - continue
meeting on their own. In a few weeks they will present a proposal to make some
changes in Willmar schools, where about 11 percent of the 4,600 students are
learning English.

Circles have been meeting for four years at the Jane Addams School for Democracy
on St. Paul's West Side, a collaborative effort involving Hmong and Hispanic
residents, Neighborhood House, the College of St. Catherine, the University of
Minnesota and the Center for Democracy and Citizenship.

TO ATTEND
Meeting times and locations can be obtained by calling (651) 224-5445.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 13, 2000 Sunday

PIONEER PRESS BOOK CLUB

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 421 words


Join us for a streamlined series in the Pioneer Press Book Club. As a supplement
to the reporting that begins on today's newspages, we've selected seven books
and a list of Minnesota classics that describe earlier experiences of immigrants
and indigenous people.

The first book suggested, "Lost on Earth," provides a context for understanding
the scope of forced migrations throughout the world that are fueling immigration
to the United States and other nations.

We have chosen five books to suggest for reading during the newspaper series,
"The New Face of Minnesota," that augment reporting on specific ethnic groups
featured in the series. And, finally, the club suggests the 1996 book, "The Case
Against Immigration," which makes public policy arguments about the strain on
resources and the economic impact of immigration.

As is the custom with our book club, we invite you to choose from these titles,
find others about immigration, and adapt them to your reading groups and
schedules. The point is to enrich the conversation about how the new culturally
diverse, transnational Minnesota interlocks with the older Minnesota of deeply
rooted northern European immigrants and native people.

Here's the Pioneer Press Book Club list. Enjoy.

A supplement to the newspaper series about immigration, published in February
and March 2000. These seven books are suggestions to illuminate culture,
history, global context, policy questions and the common experiences of new
Americans. Some books contain graphic writing about violent and sexual themes.
The mix of fiction and nonfiction is intentional, as is the recommendation of
"classics" about long-established Minnesota ethnic groups.

Lost on Earth:

Nomads of the New World

By Mark Fritz

Secrets

By Nuruddin Farah

And the Prairie Dogs Weren't Kosher:

Jewish Women in the Upper Midwest Since 1855

By Linda Mack Schloff

I Begin My Life All Over:

The Hmong and the American Immigrant Experience

By Lillian Faderman with Ghia Xiong

The House on Mango Street

By Sandra Cisneros

Watchdog of Loyalty

Especially chapters six and seven

By Carl H. Chrislock

The Case Against Immigration

By Roy Howard Beck

Minnesota classics

Last Standing Woman

By Winona LaDuke

Giants in the Earth

Peder Victorious

Their Fathers' God

The Boat of Longing

By O.E. Rolvaag

The Emigrants

Unto a Good Land

The Settlers

The Last Letter Home

By Vilhelm Moberg

They Chose Minnesota:

A Survey of the State's Ethnic Groups

Edited by June Drenning Holmquist

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The New Face of Minnesota

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 13, 2000 Sunday

STEPPING INTO A STATE OF CHANGE

BYLINE: Nick Coleman, Staff Columnist

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3282 words


Dear Readers,

It is your story and mine, the oldest - and newest - of American adventures. You
can hear it in the fading accent in a grandmother's voice. You can taste it in
the ethnic food that surfaces on holidays. Beginning today and for the next six
Sundays, the Pioneer Press will examine "The New Face of Minnesota."

At the same time, the League of Women Voters of Minnesota will be bringing
Minnesotans together in dozens of communities to talk about the impact of new
immigrnats.
We hope you and your family will join us in learning about our fascinating new
neighbors. They might remind you of your ancestors.

Walker Lundy, editor

Marilyn Larson Is The Essence Of Minnesota Nice - A Retired Elementary School
Music Teacher Of Swedish Descent Who Lives In Fridley, Speaks Politely And
Worries About Giving The Wrong Impression. These Days, However, There's
Something Troubling Her: The Increasing Number Of Foreign-born People Living In
Minnesota. After Retiring From Teaching In 1998, Larson Founded A Group
Dedicated To Reducing The Number Of Immigrants Who Come To Minnesota.
Two Hundred Miles To The Southwest, In Worthington, Minn., A 23-year-old Rookie
Police Officer Named Danny Bouavichith Is Strapping On His .40-cal. Smith &
Wesson And Reporting For The Start Of His Patrol. The First Minority Officer In
A Town Where Immigrants From Asia, Africa And Latin America Represent A Quarter
Of The Population, Bouavichith Came To Minnesota As A 3-year-old Refugee From
Laos, Escaping War And Communism With His Family For A Better Life In America.
Two Minnesotans - Marilyn Larson And Danny Bouavichith - Separated By Race,
Culture And Family Histories. But They're Emblematic Of A Major Transformation
Under Way: The Face Of Minnesota Is Changing As Thousands Of New Immigrants -
Most From Radically Different Backgrounds Than The White, Northern Europeans Who
Settled Minnesota In The Late 19th And Early 20th Centuries - Arrive In Our
State.
The Evidence Of That Change Is Everywhere: On Lake Street In Minneapolis, Where
Hispanic Newcomers Have Created A Thriving Business District And Spanish Is
Rapidly Becoming The Language Of Commerce. In St. Paul, Along A University
Avenue Corridor Once In Decline But Now Vibrant With Asian Businesses And
Restaurants. In Public Schools Of St. Paul And Minneapolis, Where More Than 80
Languages And Dialects Are Spoken, And Half Of All Incoming Students Are
Children Of New Arrivals.
Across The State, From The Chicken-processing Plants Of Pelican Rapids To The
Canning Plants Of Owatonna, New Immigrants Perform Hard Labor, Raising Families
In Places Where Cultural Diversity Used To Mean The Town Had Both Scandinavians
And Germans.
But Along With The Broadening Of Cultures And The New Ethnic Restaurants Have
Come Deep Challenges To Minnesota's Public Life: Isolated Racial Violence
Against Immigrants By White Youths In Rochester And Elsewhere; Warnings From
Federal Immigration Officials That, In Their View, Minnesota Has Become A Haven
For Illegal Immigrants Because Of The State's Public Assistance Programs; And A
Small But Growing Number Of Minnesotans, Such As Marilyn Larson, Who Worry About
The Long-term Changes Caused By The Recent Wave Of Immigration.
The Debate May Be New In Minnesota, But It's Part Of A Growing National Argument
Over Immigration Issues.
In States Such As Texas And California, There Have Been Calls For A
Military-style Crackdown To Prevent Mexican And Latin American Immigrants From
Entering The United States Illegally. The Great Majority Of Immigrants To
Minnesota Are Here Legally. Nevertheless, Illegal Immigrants Pose A Growing
Problem For Local Law Enforcement Officials. And Illegal Immigrants Contribute
To Rising Resentment In Some Quarters Against All Immigrants And Demands For
Further Restricting The Flow Of Legal Immigrants Into The Country.
"I Don't Want To Get The Wrong Tone Here," Larson Says In A Softly Sweet Voice,
"but I Don't Think They (immigrants) Always Tell The Truth About Why They Come
Here. It's Too Easy To Come Into This Country Illegally And The Implications Of
That Are Serious."
Worthington Diversifies
Worthington, The Once-thriving Center Of A Rich Farming Area, Fell On Hard Times
In The 1980s, With A Farm Crisis And Factory Closings.
But Refugees From Southeast Asia And Africa, Bolstered By An Influx Of
Immigrants From Central And Latin America, Helped Revive The Town's Economy. It
Has Become A Microcosm Of The Benefits And Strains Immigration Brings To
Minnesota.
At A Reopened Pork-processing Plant, More Than Three-quarters Of The Work Force
Are Immigrants. Those Workers, Starting At About $9.50 An Hour, Can Earn A Bonus
Of $1,000 If They Recruit Another Worker With A Green Card And That Worker Stays
On The Job Six Months.
Worthington's Job Boom Has Attracted So Many Immigrants That Local Minority
Leaders Predict The 2000 Census Will Show People Of Color Constitute 25 To 30
Percent Of The Town's Population. But These New Arrivals Have Not Always Felt
Welcome. In 1992, The Town's Newspaper Caused An Uproar When It Reported That 83
Percent Of Its Readers Who Responded To A Survey "don't Like Minorities." For
Several Years, Tension Was High Between City Police And Minorities Who
Complained Of Racial Harassment. Today, Despite Progress, A Wary Separation
Remains Between White Residents And Immigrants.
"Worthington Has Diversity, Yes," Says The Rev. Erick Vallecillo-Ortez, A
Lutheran Minister From Nicaragua Who Came To The United States To Finish
Seminary And Is Associate Pastor At First Lutheran Church. "It's A Very Small
Town And We Have Very Nice Diversity Here, But Unity? No."
Vallecillo-Ortez Says The English-speaking White Population Needs The Immigrants
To Do Much Of The Town's Work, But Remains Ignorant Of The New Cultures. Racism,
He Says, Is The Underlying Problem.
"Racism Is Very Subtle In Worthington. The Anglo People Are Afraid Of The
Minorities, And I Understand The Difficulty," He Says. "But People Need To Learn
More And Ask Us, 'What Do You Do? Where Do You Come From? What Are Your
Customs?' But They Ask Nothing. That Is A Symptom That People Are Feeling
Afraid."
A Human Rights Commission Has Been Formed In Nobles County To Help Address
Problems; Immigrant Advocates Have Offered School And Police Officials
Sensitivity Training, And Community Leaders Agree That Relations Between The
Races Have Eased In The Past Few Years. But There Remains A Gulf. Last Month, On
Martin Luther King Day, Vallecillo-Ortez Was Disappointed To Find There Were No
Programs Planned To Honor The Man Whose Life Was Dedicated To Racial
Reconciliation. Vallecillo-Ortez Wrote An Article In His Church Newsletter
Asking White Members To Remember That Jesus Was An Outsider.
"Jesus Christ Was An Alien," He Says. "He Was Born In Bethlehem. He Didn't Speak
English. He Never Eat The Lute-a-fish Or Tortillas With Salsa. He Was Never
Fishing In A Frozen Hole. He Never Use Snowmobile. But Many White People Believe
In Him. So I Said, If You Believe In Jesus Christ, You Believe In A Minority. So
Why You Not Believe In The Other Minorities?"
Refuge In Minnesota
This Is Not The First Time Minnesota Has Wrestled With The Arrival Of Great
Numbers Of Newcomers. We Always Have Been A Place Of Newcomers, From The Days
When Ojibway And Dakota Indian Tribes Migrated To What Would Become Minnesota,
Through The Arrival Of European Settlers Who Appropriated Most Of The State From
Native Tribes, To The Early Days Of The Last Century. In A Typical Sentiment Of
The Time, One Established Minnesotan Working In A Lumber Camp In The North Woods
Wrote Home To His Folks In St. Paul About The Swedish And Irish Laborers In The
Camp: "They Are The Most Utterly Illiterate Uninformed Savages I Ever
Encountered," He Wrote.
While Attitudes Toward Newcomers May Have Improved, Prejudice Still Exists, Even
Though The Current Wave Of Migration To Minnesota Is Far Smaller Than The One
That Hit 100 Years Ago. Then, 40 Percent Of Minnesotans Were Immigrants, Almost
Three Times Higher Than The National Average. Today, Foreign-born Minnesotans
Make Up Only 6 Percent Of The State's Population, Less Than The National Average
Of 9 Percent. But Because So Many Of Today's Newcomers Are People Of Color And
Come From Cultures With Roots Far From Europe, The Current Newcomers May Stand
Out More Immediately Than Those Of A Century Ago.
Reliable Recent Numbers Will Be Hard To Obtain Until This Year's U.S. Census Is
Completed. But "the Best-guess Estimate" From The State Demographer's Office Is
That Minnesota's Foreign-born Population Increased By At Least 50 Percent In The
1990s, Fueled By The Arrival Of African And Asian Refugees, And By Secondary
Migration Of Immigrants Who Moved To Minnesota From Other States, Such As
California, To Be Nearer Family.
Minnesota Is Home To The Largest Populations Of Somali And Hmong Refugees In The
United States. It Also Has A Burgeoning Hispanic Community, Which Is Expected To
Become The State's Second-largest Minority Group Within The Next Five Years,
Bypassing Asians. Immigrants From Asia And Africa, As Well As The Arrival Of
Many Non-white Hispanics, Are Contributing To A Growing Minority Population In
The State: By 2025, Current Estimates Say 15 Percent Of Minnesota's Population
Will Be Minorities, Compared With About 9 Percent Now.
Many Americans Believe, Incorrectly, That Most Immigrants Come Here Illegally,
Looking For Well-paying Jobs. In Fact, Most Of The Estimated 1 Million
Immigrants To The United States Each Year Come Legally To Reunite With Family
Already Here; Many Are Refugees Forced To Leave Their Homes.
While Minnesota No Longer Is Among The Leading States In Overall Immigration, It
Still Is Among The Leaders In Attracting Refugees, Immigrants With Special
Status As Victims Of War, Famine Or Other Cruelty. It Was A Role Embraced By
Minnesota After World War II, When The State Became A Radical Advocate For
Bringing Displaced Persons To America; After The Vietnam War Ended In 1975, That
Dormant Civic And Religious Network Was Easily Revived To Sponsor The
Immigration Of Thousands Of Hmong And Vietnamese Refugees To The State. That
Role Continues Today: More Than 40 Percent Of All Immigrants In Minnesota Arrive
As Refugees, Almost Three Times The National Average.
Why They Come
"Why Are These People Here? Why Did They Come Here In The First Place? Why Are
They Changing My World? Why Don't They Learn English?'
"These Are The Kind Of Questions I Hear All The Time From People, Even From My
Own Family," Says Michele Garnett, An Attorney For Minnesota Advocates For Human
Rights, A Minneapolis-based Organization That Assists Immigrants. "Well, Let Me
Tell You: It's Not Because They Want To Disrupt My Life Or Sponge Off My
Community. It's Because They Risked Death If They Stayed Where They Were. No One
Does It Of Free Choice. It's Very Hard To Uproot Your Lives And Your Family And
Start Everything From Scratch Again In A New Country."
A Century Or More Removed From The Hardships Their Ancestors Faced In Coming To
America, Many Minnesotans Dismiss The Difficulties Faced By New Arrivals. Worse,
Say Many People Who Assist Refugees, New Arrivals Encounter Rejection Based On
Their Skin Color, Their Inability To Speak English, Or Their Exotic Cultures And
Unfamiliar Religions.
"The Discrimination That Many Immigrants And Refugees Face Is, At Its Heart,
Racial," Says Jennifer Prestholdt, Another Attorney With Minnesota Advocates For
Human Rights, Which Currently Represents About 600 Immigrants Seeking Asylum.
"As Long As There Are Just A Few People Of Color, It's OK, We Can Handle It. But
When There's Enough That It Looks Like Our Town Is Changing, We Don't Like It
Anymore. That's When You Hear People Talking About How 'they' Are Taking Our
Jobs And A Whole Lot Of Other Misconceptions."
There Is An Argument - Voiced By Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Among
Others - That Immigrants Are Not Taking Jobs From Americans But In Fact Are
Needed To Fuel The Lower-paid End Of This Booming Economy. Some Argue That Even
Illegal Immigrants Should Be Allowed To Remain If They Are Otherwise
Law-abiding.
"These people clearly are contributing to our society and they have for a long
time," says State Sen. Linda Berglin, a Minneapolis DFLer. "They're not breaking
the law in any other way, which is a sign that they are needed here to make our
community work.

"Middle-class people don't realize that we need these people," says Berglin,
whose inner-city district has witnessed an explosion of ethnic restaurants and
immigrant businesses. "Our economy needs more entry-level workers than we have."

While she says most people in her district are tolerant of new arrivals, Berglin
worries that many Minnesotans are hostile.

"I don't think you can appeal to 'Minnesota Nice' on this issue," she said. "My
grandmother came from Norway and cleaned houses when she was 15. She married a
Peterson but he changed his name to Lund because there were too many Petersons.
Now people think there are too many Mohammads... People should remember that we
all came from somewhere."

Arriving illegally

Some of those immigrants, however, are in the United States illegally, sneaking
across the border and buying counterfeit or stolen green cards and Social
Security numbers (documents that government officials say can be purchased on
the Twin Cities black market for about $25 apiece).

In the year ending June 30, 1999, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
arrested 2,052 illegal aliens in Minnesota and the Dakotas. Some 71 percent of
them, the INS says, were arrested for alleged criminal activity, including
serious crimes such as drug dealing and rape, in addition to status-related
crimes such as purchasing or selling false identification documents. More than
1,400 were deported to their countries of origin. According to Chuck Midby,
supervisory agent at the regional office of the INS, illegal aliens represent a
growing problem in Minnesota, in part because enforcement of immigration laws
has not been as aggressive here as it has been in many other states where
politicians have demanded a crackdown.

"It's a major problem, and it's going to get worse," says Midby, whose office
has 16 agents investigating illegal aliens in the three-state region. "We think
people should be concerned about it; we don't want to tell communities how to
feel about things, but people should ask themselves, 'What's the impact of
illegal immigration on things like schools, medical care, the shortage of
low-income housing, the number of jail cells we need?"'

Because of Minnesota's strong economy, the availability of jobs, and the
relative generosity of its public assistance programs, INS officials argue that
Minnesota has become as attractive to illegal aliens as it has been to legal
immigrants.

Last fall, Curtis Aljets, INS director for Minnesota and the Dakotas, told a
legislative committee that Minnesota was "one of the weakest points" in the
Midwest in deterring illegal aliens, and urged lawmakers to amend the state's
data privacy act to make it easier for state employees to cooperate with INS
agents investigating illegal aliens. Aljets complained that Minnesota was lax in
issuing birth certificates and driver's licenses, and that it was not
cooperating with immigration authorities. Earlier this month, the House of
Representatives Civil Law Committee approved a bill (H.F. 2522) allowing the INS
access to state data on individuals and employers under investigation. The bill
has not yet been approved by the full Legislature.

An irresistible force?

Concerns about the relatively small number of illegal immigrants, however, are
sometimes difficult to separate from concerns about the much larger influx of
legal immigrants.

Minnesotans for Immigration Reform, the group headed by retired teacher Marilyn
Larson, says it doesn't oppose any race or creed, but simply wants the public to
understand the implications of immigration policy, and to push for changes to
reduce future public costs. Larson speaks carefully, she says, because she is
afraid people might take her concerns about immigration to be a smoke screen for
racial prejudice.

"It's a citizenship issue and a public policy issue, not a racial issue," says
Larson. "I know that when any group is the new kid on the block so to speak, it
takes a while for assimilation to take place and a certain comfort level for
everyone.

"One of my concerns is that we not make any disparaging remarks about any group
or any country. I'm only concerned about the numbers and what it will take to
meet our obligations in the future and what impact it will have on everyone
else, so that it will all fit together. The more I read about it, the more I
conclude that immigration in our country will become the defining issue of the
21st century."

If history serves as a guide to the future, the one thing we know for sure is
that the forces that move people from one country to another are powerful and
hard to resist and, in the end, immigration has a logic of its own. If you want
to see it in action, you only have to remember Danny Bouavichith, the young
Laotian-American police officer in Worthington.

Bouavichith's family was separated from his father, who was a soldier, in
fighting that followed the withdrawal of American forces at the end of the
Vietnam War. After a harrowing journey to Thailand, where the family was
reunited, the Bouavichiths were placed in a refugee camp and eventually flown to
Minnesota where their arrival was sponsored by a church in Zimmerman. The
father, Khamphone, got a job in a chicken factory in Butterfield, Minn., then
moved the family to the tiny town of Round Lake, near Worthington, where he
worked in another food plant.

Danny Bouavichith played football for the Sioux Valley Round Lake Brewster
Raiders, and participated in basketball and track as well. By his own admission,
he got into a few scrapes as a boy, feeling ostracized as one of the only Asian
kids. There was some name-calling, and there were some painful confrontations.

"I feel that Minnesota was really bad at stereotyping Laotians - or any
minorities - as a negative thing," he says. "People thought we were bad. But I
think that's changed since then. This is my country now. I feel like I've
adapted to Minnesota life so much that I am a Minnesotan. I like to hunt and
fish, I'm a big Vikings fan, I have no thoughts of Laos. My home is here. I'm an
American now."

Bouavichith's mother Kongmay, who died five years ago, and a younger brother,
Phetoudom, who died in a traffic accident last year, are both buried in a
Methodist cemetery in Worthington. An older brother, Phay, who is studying to
become a probation officer and is married to a woman from Windom, Minn., tends
their graves. The Bouavichiths of Worthington are putting down roots in
Minnesota, like generations of Germans and Swedes and Norwegians and Irish
before them.

Khamphone Bouavichith, the father who led his family to Worthington and worked
in chicken-processing plants to support his children, is retired now. A couple
of years ago, he became a U.S. citizen. Before he took the oath of citizenship,
he was asked if he'd like to change his name. Yes, he replied. He wanted to take
the first name of the then-governor of Minnesota, Arne Carlson.

If you're ever in Worthington, you might look up Arne Bouavichith. And think
about how your ancestors made the same journey.

Nick Coleman can be reached at ncoleman@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5472.

Related items appear on Pages 12A and 13A

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The New Face of Minnesota

NOTES: First of a seven-part series

GRAPHIC: 4 photos: JIM GEHRZ, PIONEER PRESS
1) A Muslim woman, center, takes her place at a Minneapolis bus stop
with other Minnesotans. Immigrants and refugees from Somalia, Laos,
Mexico, Russia and other countries, have come to Minnesota in
increasing numbers, changing the cultural complexion of the state.
2) Nine-year-old Christie Her, left, and sister Becky, 11, watch trail
guides at the Lee and Rose Warner Nature Center in Hugo during a Girl
Scout field trip in January. The girls are members of a troop from the
Hmong Community Lutheran Church in St. Paul.
3) Worthington police officer Danny Bouavichith, right, waits to go on
duty, at home with his father, Arne. The younger Bouavichith, 23, came
from Laos with his family in 1979. His father, born Khampone
Bouavichith, changed his first name to Arne - as in Minnesota Gov.
Arne Carlson - when he became a U.S. citizen a few years ago.
4) Marina Liberman arrived in the United States about 10 years ago. A
former neurologist, she and her husband, a former dentist, now own a
St. Paul restaurant. Growing anti-Semitism and Russian organized crime
prompted them to leave.
Graphic: Pioneer Press
Where we come from, then and now: top countries of origin
(see microfilm)
6 maps: Pioneer Press
Fleeing for their lives
There may be no time in history when more people have wandered the
world, forced by war and famine to leave their homes. The United
Nations estimates that more than 40 million people -- mostly women and
children -- have been forced to flee. This forced migration is a major
factor in immigration to Minnesota. Detailed country maps, reports on
refugee conditions and information on how to help refugees can be
found on the American Refugee Committee website at www.archq.org and
the U.S. Committee For Refugees website at www.refugees.org. Among the
many conflicts fueling this human upheaval:
Europe
Instability in eastern Europe following the collapse of the Soviet
Union has allowed ethnic conflict to rage. At the end of 1998,
Yugoslavia hosted about 498,000 Croatian and Bosnian refugees, almost
all ethnic Serbs. At the end of 1998, some 257,000 were displaced
within Yugoslavia, mostly ethnic Albanians from Kosovo. About 100,000
Albanians left Yugoslavia seeking asylum.
In Russia, the war against Islamic separatists in the Republic of
Chechnya has displaced 190,000 Chechens to neighboring republics.
Growing antisemitism throughout Russia has maintained the flight of
Jews fearing religious persecution; most of the 6,000 Russians who
have immigrated to Minnesota over the past three decades are Jews.
In Bosnia, more than 424,000 refugees remained outside the country
in 1998. At its peak, more than 1 million refugees from
Bosnia-Herzegovina fled "ethnic cleansing."
Africa
Civil wars and droughts have fueled a cycle of hunger, disease,
migration and death in many African countries in the past decade. In
Somalia more than 900,000 Somalis fled civil unrest that began in the
early 1990s -- and more than 6,000 arrived in Minnesota. At the end of
1998, more than 350,000 Sudanese were refugees. In 1993 civil war and
genocide in Rwanda displaced 350,000. In Liberia, 400,000 fled
instability after a government overthrow in 1989. Civil war in
Ethiopia during the 1980s and early 1990s displaced 800,000 people.
Sizeable populations of Liberians and Ethiopians have settled in
Minneapolis.
Asia
The largest refugee population in Minnesota is the Hmong, who lived
in the hills of Laos and assisted the CIA during the Vietnam War in
its fight against Communism. After the war, many Hmong fled for their
lives to refugee camps in Thailand. About 104,000 Hmong have been
admitted to the United States since 1975. More than 60,000 Hmong and
20,000 other Southeast Asians settled in Minnesota or moved here from
other states.
At the end of 1998, more than 2.6 million Afghans were refugees in
neighboring countries due to conflict and fear of persecution. The
occupation of Tibet by China in 1959 has caused a steady exodus by
Buddhists fearing religious persecution. About 500 Tibetans have
settled in Minnesota.
United States: In 1998, the United States hosted an estimated
651,000 refugees and asylum seekers.
Sources: American Refugee Committee, U.S. Committee for Refugees,
Minnesota State Demographer, U.S. State Department, Bureau of
Population, Refugees, and Migration.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 21, 2000 Monday

STUDENTS TEST VALIDITY OF CITIZENSHIP EXAM

BYLINE: Nick Coleman, Staff Columnist

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 687 words


Sneak quiz: Who elects the president?

If you answered "the voters" or "the people," try again.

While you're slapping your forehead and remembering that the president is
elected by members of the Electoral College, spare some sympathy for immigrants
to this country. If they want to become U.S. citizens, they need to know more
about America than most Americans.

Can you name the 13 original states? How many amendments are there to the
Constitution? What is the name of our governor? Sure, that one is easy if you
live in Minnesota, which has the most famous governor in the country, but what
if you live in Iowa?

This isn't a trivia quiz we're playing here. If you were born in a foreign
country and want to be an American citizen, your future depends upon your
ability to understand and answer - in English - a barrage of civics questions
that would stump many people whose ancestors came over on the Mayflower.

Please listen today to a group of Junior ROTC students at Humboldt Senior High
School in St. Paul - most of them the children of immigrants - who think the
citizenship exam is unfair and poses too large an obstacle for immigrants. I'm
not sure I agree; you could make the counter-argument that those of us who
already are citizens also should take a citizen exam once in a while. But it's a
timely topic, and the kids should get high marks for bringing it up.

Tuesday, they will hold a forum on the exam and present a video featuring a
roaming reporter, a la Jay Leno, who asks people to answer questions from the
exam. (The 6 p.m. forum, in the school auditorium, is open to the public). Just
like on "The Tonight Show," it's funny how little most American know about U.S.
history. But it's not so funny if your right to be a citizen is at stake.

"It's important that everyone know the answer to these questions, but is this
the best way?" asks Judy Ly, a Humboldt senior and cadet major whose mother, a
Hmong immigrant, became a citizen last year after studying almost three years
for the exam.

Ly and the other students say the exam doesn't lead to a real understanding of
the American system but merely results in learning trivia. Requiring the test to
be taken in English, they say (40 percent of Humboldt students come from homes
where English is not the first language) guarantees that understanding of
American democracy will be minimal. "If you look in our history books, you won't
find that English is our official language," Ly says. "Immigrants want to know
stuff about America, too, but they don't really learn; they just learn what to
say."

It may seem unlikely that a group of kids from St. Paul's West Side will change
the country's citizenship procedures. But don't count them out. They bring a lot
of energy to the fight.

They tutor immigrants at the Jane Addams School for Democracy to help them
prepare for the exam, and they are pursuing their cause through a program called
Public Achievement sponsored by the University of Minnesota's Humphrey
Institute.

They also are beginning to get noticed: They have been invited to make a
presentation at a youth conference in Denver in July, and the local director of
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, Curtis Aljets, will attend
tomorrow's forum.

For those of us who take our citizenship for granted, it's hard to understand
the importance that immigrants place on citizenship and the sense of freedom and
security citizenship brings. But how would you feel if you got that question
wrong at the top - the one about who elects the president - and it meant you
couldn't be a citizen any longer? Would you listen to the kids?

"This affects a lot of people," says Yang Yang, another cadet major at Humboldt
who is involved in the citizenship project. "A lot of people are trying very
hard to get their citizenship. If they don't get it, don't make fun of them.
Remember, your ancestors were new here once, too."

IF YOU GO
Citizenship test forum, 6 p.m. Tuesday, Humboldt Senior High auditorium, 30 E.
Baker St., St. Paul
Nick Coleman can be reached at ncoleman@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5472.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SCOTT TAKUSHI, PIONEER PRESS
Students in Humboldt High School's Citizenship Public Achievement
Group have made a video that questions the fairness of the U.S.
citizenship exam. From left, Nick Longo, the group's adviser; Sher Ly,
a 10th-grade student; and his sister Judy Ly, a senior, discuss their
part in Tuesday's program at Humboldt during which their video will
premiere.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 27, 2000 Sunday

IMMIGRANTS HELP DEEPEN CELEBRATIONS;
TIME, EFFORTS EASE DIFFERENCES WITH AMERICAN-BORN BLACKS

BYLINE: Robin Huiras Staff Writer WHAT IT MEANS Black History, Month is
celebrated as a time for remembering people who suffered and, died in the fight
to gain freedom and for recognizing contributions, black Americans have made to
the United States.

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 821 words


If someone asked Tsehai Wodajo 10 years ago the meaning of Black History Month,
she would have been hard-pressed to answer. At the time, the recent Ethiopian
immigrant did not identify herself as a black American.

Wodajo did not interact with the black community in Minneapolis or St. Paul and
gave minimal thought to participating in Black History Month celebrations.

Last weekend, after a decade of living in the United States, raising her
children and working with new arrivals, Wodajo attended a Minneapolis Boys and
Girls Club Black History Month event to watch her 7-year-old son play the drums.

Wodajo's move toward embracing Black History Month resembles the stories of
other African emigres, who make up one of Minnesota's fastest-growing immigrant
groups, particularly from counties in East Africa.

With each passing decade and new wave of settlers, the experiences and memories
that constitute the month grow. And each person, from the great-great-grandson
of slaves or a first-generation Ethiopian refugee, differently defines the
meaning and reason to remember February.

"Immigrants expand the parameters and give it a richer texture," said Winston
McDowell, assistant professor of African-American history at the University of
Minnesota.

For some African immigrants, it takes years of living in the United States
before they embrace and identify with black American culture.

Brikti Hiwet emigrated from Ethiopia in 1970 and said some Africans exposed to
mainstream media have a negative perception of black Americans. Images of
exploitation, discrimination, violence and poverty can create negative
stereotypes the immigrants want to avoid.

"Many (immigrants) have a fear of African-Americans," Hiwet said. "They find out
you were not born here, and being an immigrant somehow changes things."

Atum Azzahir, president of the Powderhorn Phillips Cultural Wellness Center in
Minneapolis, agreed. Although Azzahir is not an immigrant, her position in
helping immigrants acclimate to the United States has shown her this cultural
divide.

"Even though they become African-Americans, there is a difficult gap. We have to
get to know each other again," Azzahir said. "This system has a way of
identifying the black American as uneducated, economically poor off, violent.
And this collective identity causes people not to identify with us."

But with time and personal experience, some immigrants begin to identify with
the facets of black culture and history in America. For Wodajo, this came from
an incident involving her oldest son.

On a school bus while still in grade school, three black American boys beat him.
Born in Ethiopia, but growing up in America, the child wanted to associate and
identify as a black American, but he harbored rage toward these boys and other
black Americans.

Wodajo said her son carried the emotions into high school and eventually his
grades began to suffer, so she decided to form the Pan-African Elders and
Parents group to help her son and other young people with similar experiences.
The group is in its fourth year, and Wodajo, Hiwet and another co-founder work
to bridge the divide between African and black American students.

"We can celebrate and cross cultures," she said. "We can build a bridge across
communities and ethnicities."

Last week, Hiwet took this cross-cultural message to Minneapolis parks. The
Minneapolis Park Board, as part of Black History Month, brought North Side kids
together to examine African art and the role it plays in African society. After
studying the art, the children were told of the cultural significance of the art
pieces.

Throughout St. Paul and Minneapolis, art and culture played a central role in
Black History Month events. Images and tangible objects relay the idea that the
traditional celebration changes with each passing generation.

A photo exhibit titled "Renaissance Legends," presented by the Minneapolis Urban
League at the Mall of America in Bloomington, displayed the history of black
Americans in Minnesota.

Cheryl Morgan Spencer, organizer of the exhibit, said photographs portrayed
positive aspects of African-American history.

"It's important for the community to define how that history has evolved,"
Morgan Spencer said.

Black History Month is celebrated as a time for remembering people who suffered
and died in the fight to gain freedom and for recognizing and honoring
contributions black Americans have made to the United States.

While those reasons remain at the heart of the monthlong celebration, African
immigrants are expanding the scope of Black History Month.

"The complexion of black Americans has changed," McDowell said. "One hundred
years from now, Minneapolis won't be talking about it as Black History Month,
but as the black experience. All these groups have changed and shaped the
experience."

Robin Huiras can be reached at rhuiras@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dylan Coker, Pioneer Press
Tsehai Wodajo recently attended a Black History Month event to watch
her son Fedha Waaq Abera, 7, play the drums. Wodajo emigrated from
Ethiopia about 10 years ago. "We can celebrate and cross cultures,"
she said. "We can build a bridge across communities and
ethnicities."

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 27, 2000 Sunday

PIONEER PRESS BOOK CLUB SELECTIONS ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 221 words


Pioneer Press Book Club selections on immigration

A supplement to the newspaper series about immigration, published in February
and March 2000. These seven books are suggestions to illuminate culture,
history, global context, policy questions and the common experiences of new
Americans. Some books contain graphic writing about violent and sexual themes.
The mix of fiction and nonfiction is intentional, as is the recommendation of
"classics" about long-established Minnesota ethnic groups.

Lost on Earth:

Nomads of the New World

By Mark Fritz

Secrets

By Nuruddin Farah

And the Prairie Dogs Weren't Kosher:

Jewish Women in the Upper Midwest Since 1855

By Linda Mack Schloff

I Begin My Life All Over:

The Hmong and the American Immigrant Experience

By Lillian Faderman with Ghia Xiong

The House on Mango Street

By Sandra Cisneros

Watchdog of Loyalty

Especially chapters six and seven

By Carl H. Chrislock

The Case Against Immigration

By Roy Howard Beck

Minnesota classics

Last Standing Woman

By Winona LaDuke

Giants in the Earth

Peder Victorious

Their Fathers' God

The Boat of Longing

By O.E. Rolvaag

The Emigrants

Unto a Good Land

The Settlers

The Last Letter Home

By Vilhelm Moberg

They Chose Minnesota:

A Survey of the State's Ethnic Groups

Edited by June Drenning Holmquist

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The New Face of Minnesota - Part 3 of 7

NOTES: See related story on Page 1A.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              March 5, 2000 Sunday

THE PIONEER PRESS BOOK CLUB

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 238 words


The Pioneer Press Book Club this week is reading "I Begin My Life All Over: The
Hmong and the American Immigrant Experience." This is a collection of oral
histories done by California scholar Lillian Faderman and her Hmong
collaborator, Ghia Xiong. The narrators range in age and outlook, from elders
telling about their escapes through the jungles of Laos to American teens of
Hmong descent trying to negotiate through both cultures. Faderman, the daughter
of a Jewish mother who immigrated from Eastern Europe, finds commonalities
between her experiences and those of the Hmong trying now to adapt to American
life.

The weekly selections in this book-club series parallel the topical reporting on
immigrant communities, "The New Face of Minnesota." Rounding out the book list
for this seven-week series are an overview of human migrations driving
immigration, a public-policy argument against widely opening American doors and
a collection of Minnesota's classic stories of immigrant experiences.

Read along with the series, save its titles for inclusion later in your book
group, or start your own list from the rich literature of immigration in
America. We include the Pioneer Press Book Club list here for your reference. If
you'd like copies of the list for a community organization or discussion group,
contact book club facilitator Glenda Holste at (651) 228-5478 or by e-mail at
gholste@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See microfilm for selections on immigration

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 12, 2000 Sunday

PIONEER PRESS BOOK CLUB

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 218 words


The Pioneer Press Book Club this week is reading "The House on Mango Street," by
Sandra Cisneros. This short novel uses small vignettes to tell a rich
coming-of-age story set in a Latino neighborhood of Chicago. The book, published
in 1984, quickly became a favorite of young readers, their teachers and parents.
It is a tale of Esperanza Cordero's imagination and determination to exceed
expectations. This is a good book to read aloud or for late-elementary aged
students to read on their own.

The weekly selections in this book-club series parallel the topical reporting on
immigrant communities, "The New Face of Minnesota." Rounding out the book list
for this seven-week series are an overview of global migrations that spark
immigration, a public-policy argument against liberal immigration laws in the
United States and a collection of Minnesota's classic stories of immigrant
experiences.

Read along with the series, save its titles for inclusion later in your book
group, or start your own list from the literature of immigration in America. We
include the Pioneer Press Book Club list here for your reference. If you'd like
copies of the list for a community organization or discussion group, contact
book club facilitator Glenda Holste at (651) 228-5478 or
gholste@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The New Face of Minnesota

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 19, 2000 Sunday

QUIET MAJORITY;
A LITTLE MORE THAN A CENTURY AGO, GERMANS ARRIVED IN MINNESOTA IN TREMENDOUS
NUMBERS. BUT ANTI-GERMAN SUSPICIONS SUBMERGED THE LANGUAGE AND CULTURE DURING
WORLD WARS I AND II. NOW GERMAN IMMIGRANTS HAVE SOME ADVICE FOR THE NEW
IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: Rick Shefchik, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3540 words


They are everywhere among us, but we don't notice them anymore.

When Germans began pouring into Minnesota 150 years ago, they were like today's
immigrants in so many ways: eager for economic opportunity unavailable in their
homeland, for the most part unable to speak English, willing to do whatever was
required to make a new start in a new land.

Now they are, simply, Minnesotans. A plurality of Minnesotans, really: More of
us claim German descent than any other ethnicity. More than Swedish or
Norwegian, which surprises those who think of Minnesota as Scandinavia West.

It is a testament - both for good and ill - to the thoroughness with which
millions of Germans left their language and customs in the past and blended into
the cultural landscape of Minnesota. But the days when German echoed down the
streets of small towns and city neighborhoods have not been completely
forgotten.

There are those still among us who can recall speaking nothing but German at
home while learning English in school. There are those who remember living in
crowded little homes with their relatives while their fathers tried to find a
job. And there are those who can recall when to be German was to live under a
cloud of suspicion - just as immigrants today are sometimes mistrusted by those
who know little about them.

If newly arrived immigrants wonder what the future might hold, they can ask Bill
Kiehne, who will turn 90 next month. He came here from Germany when he was 13
years old, making a successful life for himself as a farmer in the little
southeastern Minnesota town of Harmony.

Older immigrants who have followed relatives to America could ask Charlotte
Komischke what to expect. Komischke, 96, emigrated to St. Paul from Berlin in
1955 when she was in her 50s, and though her accent remains, she considers
herself thoroughly American.

And Minnesotans born here to immigrant parents could turn to Lucy Sandberg, 94,
for an example of how - inevitably - one makes the transition from the ways of
the old country to the ways of the new.

German boom times

Lucy Sandberg's two-story house with the tuck-under garage on a tree-lined
Robbinsdale street looks like any of the thousands of suburban Twin Cities homes
built after World War II. Sandberg, now 94, and her husband Andy, 92, built the
place in 1950.

The indistinguishable Americanness of Sandberg's house and neighborhood give no
hint that she was born in a tiny wooden house on German Street in New Ulm,
Minn., just after the turn of the century.

Inside her Robbinsdale home there are no obvious signs of her ethnic heritage,
which she traces back to Alsace-Lorraine, an area that has gone back and forth
between Germany and France. To hear her speak, you would never suspect that
Sandberg knew only German until she started grade school in New Ulm.

But she remembers. She takes down an old wood-framed slate from a shelf in her
living room and points out where her father scratched her name into the slate's
surface. Unlike today's immigrants, who learn English with the aid of computers,
audio tapes, videos and the broadcast media, that simple hand-held slate was the
instrument on which she learned to read and write the language that has become
her own.

"My mother always kept my slate," Sandberg says fondly. "We had to take it home
to do our homework. I remember that my mother would put it in my school bag so
that it wouldn't get wet.

"I went to the German Lutheran school. We had German reading, we had German
writing, and we had English reading and English writing. That's when I learned
English. With children, it just comes so natural."

Sandberg can still speak and write German, but she seldom does anymore. The
Sandbergs have no children, so the cultural traditions brought with her
grandparents from the old country will not be handed down.

Yet they still exist vividly in her memory.

Lucy Sandberg's grandparents were among the very first settlers in New Ulm,
arriving in the 1850s soon after the town was established as a German colony by
Ferdinand Beinhorn and Wilhelm Pfaender.

Germans began coming to Minnesota in staggering numbers in the mid-19th century
because of deteriorating economic conditions at home - too many people and not
enough land or industrial development - and a concerted effort on the part of
Minnesota's immigration commission to bring settlers to the newly opened
territory. In 1882 alone, 250,000 Germans arrived in Minnesota.

Pamphlets circulated in Germany described Minnesota as "the most faithful
likeness of the old homeland that this continent can offer."

Though Sandberg's Grandma Koehler told stories of the old days, she never
specified why her family came to America. "I guess it was just like everybody,"
Sandberg says. "They all thought this was a paradise."

They often found out otherwise.

Grandma Koehler arrived in America in 1844 on a cholera-ridden sailing ship when
she was 8 years old. Soon her mother and brother died in New Orleans and her
little sister went to live with another family and was never found again. She
and her father ended up in Cincinnati before moving farther west.

More danger confronted Grandma Koehler when she arrived in New Ulm on a
steamboat. The area was filling up with German immigrants - between 1850 and
1862, the number of steamships bringing German immigrants up the Minnesota River
Valley jumped from four per year to 413. With the increase in homesteaders came
increasing conflict between the new arrivals and the Dakota Indians who had
signed a treaty to give up their lands.

"Grandma befriended the Indians," said Sandberg. "She gave them some of her
bread and they'd give her moccasins for her children."

While her husband was away at Fort Ridgely in August 1862, those Indians tried
to warn her of an impending attack by marauding Dakota warriors, but they could
not speak each others' languages. Grandma Koehler's house was burned to the
ground and she barely escaped to town with her children and her life.

The Koehlers built another house in town - where Lucy Sandberg was born in 1906.
Meanwhile, riverboat after riverboat brought more relatives, more friends and
more strangers from Germany to the growing town of New Ulm.

"Grandma said they would blow the whistle and then everybody up in New Ulm would
go down to meet them," Sandberg says. "Grandma said they could leave the stores
open and nobody would come in and take anything. If (the new arrivals) didn't
have a place to stay, people would take them in their home until they had a
place they built for their own."

Such generosity could be a hardship.

"I remember Grandma's cousins wrote and asked her to send them money," Sandberg
says. "They thought Grandma was rich, so Grandma had to write and tell them she
was poor. ... In fact, when Grandpa died, all she had was the house they had
built and $7 a month." Sandberg's parents moved in with her and paid rent to
help stretch everyone's budget.

Both of Sandberg's grandparents spoke English, German and French - speaking in
French when they didn't want the children to understand. Sandberg picked up a
little English from a neighbor boy, but German was the mother tongue of well
over 90 percent of New Ulm citizens.

"There was a time when you'd walk down the street and all you heard was people
talking German," she says.

"Even the little Irish boys could talk German," recalls Dr. Ted Fritsche, 93, a
fellow New Ulm native who still lives there. "Everybody talked German in New
Ulm, but it's only natural as time goes on that German died out gradually."

Fear and suspicion

The decline of the German language and culture in Minnesota was drastically
hastened by the onset of World War I.

Even though they were still the predominant ethnic group in the state, Germans
were targets of fear and suspicion when the United States went to war against
Germany.

When the state's German-language newspapers - and elected officials with large
German constituencies - argued that the United States should stay out of the
war, the state Legislature created the Minnesota Commission of Public Safety in
1917 to crack down on perceived disloyal immigrants.

On July 25, 1917, about 10,000 people attended a rally in New Ulm at which the
legitimacy of the war and of compulsory military service were discussed. Three
participating New Ulm officials - including city attorney Albert Pfaender, son
of the town's co-founder, and mayor Louis Fritsche, Ted Fritsche's father - were
suspended from their offices by the Commission for "unpatriotic and un-American"
acts.

Many people wrote to the commission urging outright banishment of the German
language in Minnesota; the commission employed a network of spies to root out
anti-American behavior; Germans were harassed for not purchasing war bonds.

"New Ulm was in disrepute, and there was no reason for it except that war
hysteria caught up with them," says Fritsche, who was 10 years old when his
father was deposed as mayor. "My father even had several letters from people
that said, 'You ought to be lined up on the wall and shot,' because he permitted
that meeting to take place."

The name of the street on which Lucy Sandberg grew up was changed from German
Street to Liberty Street after World War I began, and German Park became Liberty
Park.

"Oh, yes, it was bad," Sandberg says now of the anti-German feeling. "Anybody
that was pro-German, they painted his place with yellow paint. We don't know who
did it. Somebody came in and painted it."

"It was a total miscarriage of justice," says LaVern Rippley, a professor at St.
Olaf College specializing in German immigrants, and himself the son of
German-speaking parents from Wisconsin. "Young people of German families were at
first rather enthusiastic about the war. They couldn't wait to meet the 'Huns.'
They never called them Germans, because they would be facing themselves.

"And once they met their Huns, suddenly they were silent. They were not only
human beings, but ethnic brothers."

Even acknowledging German lineage fell into disfavor immediately after the war.
In 1910, 12 million U.S. immigrants stated they were born in Germany. In 1920,
only 5 million admitted to being German. Then in 1930, the number was back up to
11 million.

"What happened?" Rippley asks. "They all denied it to the census taker. It was
like saying you were a Jew in Nazi Germany. In 1920 they were denying their
origins. By 1930 they felt better again, free to display their origins."

Getting ahead

It was into this post-war atmosphere of cautious reconciliation that Bill Kiehne
arrived from Luhdorf, Germany, in 1923.

Two of his uncles already were living and raising families in the
Harmony-Preston area in southeastern Minnesota, and Kiehne's father burned with
desire to leave war-ravaged Germany for the splendors of America.

"Oh, if I could just get to America," Kiehne, then 13, recalls his father
saying. His mother finally agreed.

The Kiehnes had 11 children in all, but only five were still living at home.
Uncles in Minnesota agreed to sponsor the family. In October 1923, the Kiehnes
made the voyage across the ocean, the processing stop at Ellis Island and the
train trip halfway across the continent to Minnesota.

Kiehne's uncles drove to town to pick them up, one in a Buick and one in a
Chevrolet.

"That was the first automobile ride we ever had," Kiehne recalls. "We kids
thought they were rich. They took us downtown to the drugstore and bought us
ice-cream bars, the first ice-cream bars I ever had in my life. My, what a land
of milk and honey."

But the free or cheap land available to immigrants during the previous century
was gone, so Kiehne went to school to learn sufficient English to make his way
as a farmhand. He was confirmed in German at the local Lutheran church, which
conducted services in German every other Sunday.

He made $15 a month working at a neighbor's farm, then returned to school after
the harvest to work on his English. When the neighbors wouldn't give him a raise
to $20 the following summer, Kiehne's father suggested he go to Chicago to work
at a relative's greenhouse. After one season there, Kiehne returned to Minnesota
- a little bigger, a little more self-confident, and ready to earn $30 per month
as a farmhand.

Kiehne eventually wanted to start farming on his own, which meant renting land
from an owner, but he needed help - especially after the Depression hit.
Fortunately, he met a Norwegian schoolteacher named Orilee who agreed to marry
him and give up her career to help him run a farm.

Anti-German sentiment still lingered in Minnesota - "Oh, yes; her grandmother
certainly didn't like that she was going with me because I was a German" - but
the area was so heavily German that there was protection in numbers. "They kind
of got over it. ... They could see it wasn't getting noplace," Kiehne says.

But Bill Kiehne was going places. He ended up owning several farms and an
implement dealership. One of his sons now works his farms; the other is an
executive at Hormel. Kiehne will be 90 next month, and he gives thanks every day
that his father came to America.

"He just loved this country the minute he stepped foot on it," Kiehne says. "He
only got to be 73 years old, but he enjoyed it. He told us, 'Boys, there's one
thing you've got to keep in mind. You've got to stay honest. Keep your good
name, and you're in the best country in the world."'

Kiehne's voice breaks as he adds, "And it has been to me, it sure has."

Lost culture

By the time Charlotte Komischke emigrated to St. Paul from Berlin in 1955, old
anti-German animosities had all but vanished. So, too, however, had much of the
German flavor of the state. Generations of German immigrants had owned farms,
held jobs, raised families and blended into the scenery of a state that was
then, and still remains, predominantly made up of the descendants of Europeans.

Today, after 150 years of German assimilation, 96-year-old Charlotte Komischke's
heavy accent is one of the few remaining traces of Minnesota's German past.

Komischke lives alone in a comfortable assisted-living apartment near Como Lake.
She lived with her sister when she first arrived in St. Paul, worked hard as a
bookkeeper for 20 years and now lives in contented retirement.

"You see what I accomplished?" says Komischke, who lost her home in Berlin when
it was destroyed by a bomb during World War II. "I couldn't be more satisfied. I
did evening work to get ahead. Life's easier. Of course, I had to start with one
room. Then I got a one-bedroom apartment. And now I have this for almost 10
years."

Komischke tried to retain a connection to her German roots by attending club
functions at the Volksfest Kulturhaus, the home of the Germanic-American
Institute on Summit Avenue in St. Paul, but now she finds it too difficult to
get to the club.

She receives visits from her friend Helga Parnell, the food service and gift
shop director at the Volksfest Kulturhaus who came to America in 1963 after
marrying an American. They converse in English.

"There's another lady here from Germany, too," she says. "We all speak English
for what we have to do. I don't like it when they immigrate that they want their
language. They are in America. They should learn English. What is the use when
you come over here and speak another language? They should learn the English
language. I mean, we all had to do it when we came over."

"It's a great privilege to come here and also to be able to keep up your own
culture," says Parnell. "But it should be that people speak English. This is the
nice part, that you can keep up your culture."

Some advice

Yet so few have kept their German culture.

"To this day it is taboo to be of German origin," insists Rippley of St. Olaf.
"I can't see it any other way. Think about the negative and emotional propaganda
that was done to Germans by the George Creel Committees in World War I, almost
all of which is false. Then think of the rather terrible events of the '30s and
'40s."

In recent years there has been a renewed effort on the part of some German
descendants to find and recover the heritage that was put aside.

Darla Gebhard is president of the Junior Pioneers, a New Ulm group dedicated to
celebrating and preserving what is left of German-Minnesota history and
traditions. Her father's ancestors have been in New Ulm since the 1850s. Her
parents spoke German; in fact, her mother's parents quit the German church in
Stewart when it stopped preaching a German worship service.

"My grandparents still clung to a lot of German tradition, and they, of course,
were raised speaking 100 percent German," Gebhard says. "My mother was raised
bilingually. She learned English in school. I and my sister and brother speak
some German, but you're losing the German language.

"I think it's inevitable unless you make a conscious effort not to lose it. I
regret a conscious effort was not made for me to be bilingual. I've studied it
for two years, but I'm not fluent. Now I wish they'd spoken it all the time. But
that generation didn't see that as an asset or something that you needed."

Will today's immigrants - the Hmong, the Somalis, the Latinos, the Russians -
respond to the same incentives and pressures to discard their language and
traditions?

Gebhard believes they can be American and preserve their culture at the same
time.

"You would hope that would be," she says. "If you have freedom, if you're in a
country for freedom, you have freedom to follow your traditions and cling to
your cultures, and live the life that's best for you. That's what America is
about. People of all ethnic groups come together and live."

"New immigrant groups probably have a more difficult time adjusting than I or my
family faced," says Gerhard Weiss, a retired professor at the University of
Minnesota who was born in Germany and immigrated in 1947. "Germans mastered
English fairly quickly, and German and American culture are not that different,
so it's been a fairly easy match."

Whatever difficulties German immigrants might have faced in Minnesota, racial
discrimination was not one of them. It is for many new immigrants.

"You can't tell a German or a Pole from across the street, but a black or
Orientals stand out," says Robert Lommel, an archivist for the Historical
Society of Stearns County - along with the Minnesota River Valley, the most
German section of the state.

"There's a good reason why the Germans, unlike some other nationalities, wanted
to leave their language behind - because of the two world wars where the Germans
were the enemies," Lommel says. "It didn't apply to the French or Poles, the
Czechs, the Slavs or others. Yet it's true of all ethnic groups: By this time,
there's hardly any native speaking going on any more."

Will the same thing happen to today's immigrant groups?

"The fact that they are physically different-looking may have some bearing on
that," Lommel says.

They may never fade into the Minnesota background the way Lucy Sandberg did. And
we might be a better state for that.

GERMAN

Country of origin: Germany, but also its neighboring countries in Central Europe
where German was spoken: Luxembourg, the Alsace, parts of Switzerland and
Poland, Austria, regions of Bohemia, Hungary, Yugoslavia and the central Volga
regions in European Russia.

Why they came to Minnesota: Economic opportunity. During the heaviest wave of
German immigration to Minnesota between 1855-1900, the German economy was poor,
and Minnesota was actively recruiting Germans to settle its newly available
lands.

Size of population: 1,630,513 Minnesotans listed German as their primary
ancestry in the 1990 census. The next largest ethnic group in the state was
Norwegian, listed first by 494,440 Minnesotans.

Major population centers in Minnesota: New Ulm and the Minnesota River Valley;
St. Cloud and Stearns County; St. Paul and the Twin Cities; Winona.

Religion: Lutheran and Catholic. As with towns and villages in Germany,
Minnesota's German settlements tended to be either Catholic or Lutheran.

Traditional foods: Potato and bread dumplings, pork roast, sauerkraut, potato
salad, sauerbraten and sausages such as bratwurst.

Cultural tensions: Minnesota's Germans were treated with fear and suspicion
during World War I, during which time a state commission removed some Germans
from public office, harassed German-speaking citizens and banned a number of
German books.

Language: German.

Hello: Guten Tag (GOO-ten TAHHG)

Thank you: Danka (DAHN ka)

TO LEARN MORE

Websites: German Migration Resource Center, www.germanmigration.com

Cultural centers: Volkfest Kulturhaus in St. Paul; Turner Hall and Brown County
Historical Society in New Ulm; Stearns County History Museum, St. Cloud.

Business and restaurant districts: Gasthaus Bavarian Hunter Restaurant,
Stillwater; Black Forest Inn Restaurant, Minneapolis.

Sources: "They Chose Minnesota," Edited by June Drenning Holmquist; Prof. La
Vern Rippley, St. Olaf College; Helga Parnell, Volksfest Kulturhaus, St. Paul.

Rick Shefchik can be reached at rshefchik@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5577.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE NEW FACE OF MINNESOTA

NOTES: SIX OF SEVEN PARTS; See related story on Page 9A, "Getting Involved"

GRAPHIC: 6 Photos: Jim Gehrz, Pioneer Press
1) Lucy Sandberg of Robbinsdale holds a photograph of herself taken
when she was 23.
2) Sandberg, 94, reads a letter from a childhood friend in New Ulm,
Minn., where she was born and raised. She spoke only German until she
started grade school. Her grandparents were among the town's first
settlers in the 1850s. Because of anti-German sentiment, the name of
the street where Sandberg grew up was changed from German Street to
Liberty Street during World War I.
3) Lucy Sandberg and husband Andy, 92, have been married for 59 years.
They built their house in Robbinsdale in the 1950s. While German
immigrants once stood out, German-Americans have, by and large, become
thoroughly assimilated.
4) Bill Kiehne, 89, and his wife Orilee, 87, have a cup of coffee at
the Country Breadbasket restaurant in Harmony, Minn. Bill Kiehne
arrived in the United States from Germany when he was 13 and
eventually become a successful farmer. Orilee came from a Norwegian
family. Her grandmother wasn't pleased she was going out with a
German, but "they kind of got over it," says Kiehne. "They could
see it wasn't getting no place."
5) Bill Kiehne relaxes in the dining room of his home in Harmony. He
gives thanks every day that his father came to America. "He just
loved this country the minute he stepped foot on it," Kiehne says.
"He told us, 'Boys, keep your good name, and you're in the best
country in the world. And it has been to me, it sure has."
6) German-speaking immigrants arrived in Minnesota from many parts of
Europe - some brought skills, such as the woodcarving in this Austrian
clock, with them.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 19, 2000 Sunday

PIONEER PRESS BOOK CLUB

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 398 words


The Pioneer Press Book Club this week is following themes raised in the news
pages about the German-American experience. The sixth book in our current series
on immigration is "Watchdog of Loyalty," by Carl H. Chrislock. The book is a
history of the controversial Minnesota Commission on Public Safety, created by
the Legislature to control dissent during World War I. Although the
loyalty-checking was not limited to German-Americans, the presumption of
unpatriotic conduct is apparent in Chrislock's accounts in Chapters six and
seven.

The current book club series is presenting one title each week to augment "The
New Face of Minnesota" project. Find today's segment beginning on Page 1A. Find
the complete book selection list for this series adjacent on this page.

Read along with the book series, save its titles for inclusion later in your
book group, or start your own list from the literature of immigration in
America. If you would like copies of our list for a community organization or
discussion group, contact book club facilitator Glenda Holste at (651) 228-5478
or gholste@pioneerpress.com.

SELECTIONS ON IMMIGRATION
A supplement to the newspaper series about immigration, published in February
and March 2000. These seven books are suggestions to illuminate culture,
history, global context, policy questions and the common experiences of new
Americans. Some books contain graphic writing about violent and sexual themes.
The mix of fiction and nonfiction is intentional, as is the recommendation of
"classics" about long-established Minnesota ethnic groups.
"Lost on Earth: Nomads of the New World" by Mark Fritz
"Secrets" by Nuruddin Farah
"And the Prairie Dogs Weren't Kosher: Jewish Women in the Upper Midwest Since
1855" by Linda Mack Schloff
"I Begin My Life All Over: The Hmong and American Immigrant Experience" by
Lillian Faderman with Ghia Xiong
"The House on Mango Street" by Sandra Cisneros
"Watchdog of Loyalty" especially chapters six and seven, by Carl H. Chrislock
"The Case Against Immigration" by Roy Howard Beck
MINNESOTA CLASSICS
"Giants in the Earth," "Peder Victorious," "Their Fathers' God," "The Boat of
Longing" by O.E. Rolvaag
"The Emigrants," "Unto a Good Land," "The Settlers," "The Last Letter Home" by
Vilhelm Moberg
"They Chose Minnesota: A Survey of the State's Ethnic Groups" edited by June
Drenning Holmquist

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE NEW FACE OF MINNESOTA

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 11, 2000 Tuesday

UNLIMITED IMMIGRATION PORTENDS INCREASING INSTABILITY

BYLINE: Yeh Ling- Ling, Commentator

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 791 words


Many Americans of diverse backgrounds are concerned about education, congestion,
health care, Social Security problems and rising racial and ethnic tensions in
America.

But can those issues be effectively addressed if the United States continues to
add some 2.6 million people, who are mostly immigration-driven, to its
population every year?

In 1996, the Education Department projected 2.6 million new K-12 enrollments in
our public schools for the coming decade. While public schools in the Twin
Cities and Nashville are swamped with kids speaking 80 or more languages, Rogers
schools in northwest Arkansas have seen the number of ESL (English as a second
language) students increase by 2,700 percent since 1991.

Is the solution to our overcrowded schools to keep pouring in billions of
dollars to hire more teachers and build more classrooms, or to advocate
sustainable immigration?

President Clinton recently proposed a $110 billion health plan to insure
millions more Americans over 10 years, especially families with low incomes.
However, according to the Census Bureau's March 1998 Population Survey,
immigrants' poverty rate was about 50 percent higher than that of natives, and
about 22 percent of immigrant-headed households were living in poverty.

Can this nation effectively fight poverty and achieve sensible health care
reform if we continue to admit an average of more than 1.2 million immigrants a
year? Have our policymakers realized that high immigration is a major
contributing factor to the rising numbers of Americans without heath care?

Many politicians offer to fix Social Security problems. However, one-third of
recent immigrants have no high-school diplomas and most are low wage earners.
They do not generate enough taxes to pay for the cost of educating their
children, let alone other infrastructure.

The Social Security taxes that low-income workers pay are not sufficient to
cover the benefits they will receive when they retire. And, according to the
Census Bureau, most future U.S. population growth will be immigrants arriving
since 1994 and their U.S.-born descendants.

Isn't mass immigration compounding the problems we are trying to solve?
Residents in many cities are frustrated with growing congestion. Even though
billions of tax dollars have been spent in recent years on traffic improvement
projects, the gridlock is more severe than ever.

And the worst is yet to come. The Census Bureau's new high-end projections show
this country could have 1.2 billion people by 2100 - China's current population
within the lifetimes of today's babies' babies. Can "smart growth" effectively
cope with unlimited population increases?

Mass immigration also has exacerbated racial and ethnic tensions in many
communities. Aside from frictions seen in Twin Cities between U.S. and
foreign-born residents, conflicts also have been reported in metro Detroit
between Arabs and non-Arabs. While native blacks in many parts of the United
States feel out-competed by recent immigrants, many native whites in New
Jersey's Palisades Park feel the town has become like Korea due to heavy influx
of Korean immigrants.

Meanwhile, Professor Charles Truxillo, who teaches Chicano studies at the
University of New Mexico, recently said it is an "inevitability" that there will
be a new and sovereign Hispanic nation which will include California, Arizona,
New Mexico, Texas and southern Colorado.

Sustainable immigration is good for America. However, continuing current rates
of immigration will only turn America into a highly fragmented and overpopulated
nation.

To skeptics who doubt the United States could ever become as crowded as China,
they should be reminded that the U.S. population has almost quadrupled since
1900. Two more doublings of our current population of 275 million will make the
United States almost as crowded as today's China.

Also, in the 1940s, when Los Angeles County was mostly farmland, how many
Californians believed at that time the area could become highly congested within
less than 40 years? And in North Carolina, children in public schools now speak
170 languages.

National leaders who are serious about addressing voters' concerns should
advocate reducing immigration to no more than 200,000 a year, a level that could
help stabilize this nation's population. They also should simultaneously
encourage Third World nationals to improve life for their own citizens, just
like what we did in South Africa.

This approach will be good not only for the United States in the long term, but
for the rest of the world, as well.
Ling-Ling, (e-mail: yehlingling@earthlink.net) is executive director of
Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable America in Oakland, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 16, 2000 Sunday

WHY DID IMMIGRANTS TO MINNESOTA LEAVE THEIR HOMELANDS? ARE MINNESOTANS WELCOMING
OR UNKIND? POLL: BUILDING A NEW LIFE;
DO IMMIGRANTS ENJOY MINNESOTA'S WINTERS AND SNOW? WHAT IS HARDEST ABOUT COMING
HERE? A GROUNDBREAKING POLL REVEALS HOW IT FEELS TO IMMIGRATE TO MINNESOTA.

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo and Theresa Monsour, Staff Writers

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2967 words


Dear Readers,

Today's groundbreaking poll of new immigrants to Minnesota concludes our series
"The New Face of Minnesota." We hope you have enjoyed learning about these
fascinating new neighbors and about your own ancestors.

Our original intent was to provoke a broad community discussion about and
greater understanding of immigrants. A collaboration with the League of Women
Voters of Minnesota engaged about 2,000 Minnesotans in formal discussions during
the series. Many more joined us informally - including many new immigrants.

At the same time, the series provoked rich discussions here at the Pioneer Press
about how we report for and about immigrants. As the state's first newspaper,
our aim is to be the best source of news for all Minnesotans - old and new.

So look to us in coming months for more innovative coverage of immigration as it
changes, challenges and enriches us all.

Walker Lundy, Editor

Kate Parry, Senior Editor/Politics and Special Reports

When Hodan Mohamed's family came to St. Paul in 1995, she was a 14-year-old
Somali girl who spoke no English, feared winter and felt an unwelcoming chill
from her American classmates.

Five years later, she studies computers at college, dashes between two jobs and
sees that initial frostiness from Minnesotans in a different light:

"I used to think they were unfriendly because they wouldn't talk to me, but
later I found out they didn't talk to me because they didn't want to embarrass
me. When people asked me questions, I would be quiet because I didn't understand
them. Lots of times, I would get beat up because people thought I was stuck up,
but it was just that I didn't understand what they were saying."

Mohamed's experience - and that of many other new immigrants - is emerging
through a groundbreaking poll conducted by Wilder Research Center for the St.
Paul Pioneer Press. This random telephone poll of 1,119 Twin Cities-area
immigrants offers a rare window on the fresh experience of immigrating to
Minnesota.

Conducted in March and April, the poll concentrated on the state's four largest
recent immigrant groups - Hmong, Latinos, Somalis and some other Africans, and
immigrants from the former Soviet Union. Wilder researchers believe it is the
largest random-sampling poll ever attempted in the nation across different
immigrant groups in their native languages. Pollsters used interpreters in
Hmong, Spanish, Somali and Russian.

Among the findings:

Although instances of anti-immigrant animosity have been reported across the
state during the past decades, the overwhelming majority of Twin Cities
immigrants polled say they have been treated well. But two-thirds still say they
feel misunderstood by Americans.

Minnesota's welfare system is not the magnet some immigration critics believe it
to be. Nearly two-thirds said they moved to Minnesota primarily to be reunited
with family, and a heavy majority cite the state's abundant jobs.

Not only are about half working, but half also have working spouses, a radical
departure from life in Hmong, Somalis and Latinos homelands, where women
traditionally do not work outside the home.

The Twin Cities have witnessed tremendous growth in their foreign-born
populations over the past decade - trends that demographers expect to continue.
In 1990, foreign-born residents made up only 3.5 percent of the Twin Cities
metropolitan area's 2.5 million residents, but social service agencies think
that number has increased 50 percent since then.

Beyond anecdotal accounts, though, little comprehensive information has been
known about this latest influx of immigrants. Their mobility has rendered
10-year-old census data obsolete, and language barriers often cut them off from
polling. Also, most polls about immigration are really polls of American
attitudes about immigrants, not immigrant attitudes about America.

One of the reasons such a poll has not been attempted is the difficulty of
generating a valid random sample from relatively small minority communities in
Minnesota. Wilder Research overcame this by randomly calling more than 12,000
Twin Cities households after first identifying neighborhoods with large
immigrant populations, using data from the Minneapolis and St. Paul school
districts, said Paul Mattessich, director of the Wilder Research Center. The
center is part of the St. Paul-based Amherst H. Wilder Foundation that delivers
social services and promotes building communities.

The poll shows Minnesota's latest immigrant boom began in about 1980 with the
first large wave of Hmong immigrants arriving from refugee camps in Thailand and
from other parts of the United States.

That movement - called "secondary migration" by demographers - appears a fact of
life for modern immigrant families often separated as they flee war or
oppressive regimes. Nearly half of those polled reported living elsewhere in
America before moving to Minnesota.

Many immigrants - 97 percent of Hmong and 78 percent of Somali immigrants - said
they left their countries because of war. The Somalis fled civil war that broke
out in 1990 and left the country ruled by rival factions. The Hmong left Laos
after the Vietnam War in 1975 when the communist Lao government began violent
retaliation for the help Hmong gave America's Central Intelligence Agency in its
secret war.

Neng Xiong, 35, said he relocated in the United States because, like many Hmong,
he feels this country should honor a bargain the Hmong struck with the CIA: For
their help during the war, the Hmong expected America to take them in if they
had to flee.

"One thing Americans should know is, Hmong people who come to the United States
(did not do so) for economic purposes," Xiong said through an interpreter.
"Hmong came to America because my homeland was ruined."

The most frequently mentioned reason for moving to Minnesota was to rejoin
families and friends separated in the war and chaos of their former homelands.
Sixty-three percent mentioned this among top reasons they came to Minnesota,
with even more Hmong and Somali immigrants - 76 percent and 69 percent
respectively -- citing it as a reason for moving to Minnesota.

"I cannot move to any different state," said 45-year-old Neng Lee, who arrived
in Memphis, Tenn., in 1980 and moved to St. Paul the next year. "All my cousins
and all my friends live here," he explained.

Hodan Mohamed said when she asked her father why the family was moving to
Minnesota, where she had heard about unimaginable cold, he told her that was
where the family had cousins who could support them so they wouldn't need
welfare while he found a job. He now works at Avis car rental while her mother
learns English at community college.

Half of all Soviet emigres said political persecution was their reason for
leaving, while two-thirds of Latinos sought jobs.

On the job
Few immigrants polled - 11 percent - cited the state's welfare benefits as a
reason to come here. But 58 percent said job availability was a top reason.

Slightly more than half the immigrants polled said they have paying jobs, and
over half said their spouse is employed.

In that respect, many Hmong, Somalis and Latinos have broken with the traditions
in their home countries, where women are expected to stay home with children.

The differences are greater within the individual immigrant groups:
Three-quarters of Latinos and just over half the Somalis and Hmong reported they
were working.

Less than one-quarter of Russians reported being employed, but a polling anomaly
may account for that. The Russians in the sample tended to be older than the
other immigrants. Wilder researchers speculated that could be because older
immigrants with fewer English skills tend to live in easily identifiable
neighborhoods. Many younger Russians have scattered into the general population
in the suburbs, escaping the poll.

Minnesota mostly nice

Although occasional anti-immigrant incidents have been reported across the
state, the overwhelming majority of Twin Cities immigrants said that Minnesotans
are, indeed, nice.

More than 90 percent of Latino, Somali and Russian or former Soviet immigrants
reported Minnesotans are usually friendly, and 86 percent of the Hmong and other
Asian immigrants agreed.

Monica Elias, 33, of St. Paul, said she finds most Americans friendly but thinks
some resent Mexicans for allegedly taking jobs from native-born citizens. When
her family lived in southern Minnesota working for Green Giant, she said they
found people there more racist than in the Twin Cities.

"We are hard-working people," said Elias, who supports her two children as a UPS
clerk. "We don't depend on welfare."

Others find even the Twin Cities intolerable. "They insult us and say bad
words," said Ana Maria Nino Arellano, 22, of Minneapolis. Her family plans to
return to Mexico.

When asked whether Americans were ever mean or unkind, less than 10 percent of
Russian or Eastern European immigrants reported encountering hostility while
about a third of Hmong and Latinos, and a fifth of Somalis reported bad
experiences.

While they may not feel they are constant targets of hostility, however, nearly
two-thirds of the immigrants polled said they feel Americans have little
understanding for them or their former lives.

Vikhrov Matzey, an 18-year-old student at St. Paul's Highland Park Senior High
School, snorts at how Americans form their conceptions of Russians.

"People watch TV, but TV, it's not real. They say, 'Russians like vodka!
Russians like sausage!' They read books and think they know everything. They
need to go to Russia. They can't watch TV - it's garbage!"

Hodan Mohamed recalled telling one curious college classmate she was from
Somalia. The next day he startled her by greeting her in Spanish and grew angry
when she didn't respond. "He thought Somalia was somewhere out near Puerto Rico
and that we spoke Spanish," she said.

Shamso, a 27-year-old Somali woman who asked that her last name not be used,
said she wished Americans knew more about her religion, Islam. Many Muslims stop
work or school to pray five times a day. "Some places don't allow you to pray
... or they tell you to pray on your break time but sometimes break time is not
long enough," she said.

Stressful English

Half of Minnesota's newest immigrants say they speak English well or very well,
and one-third of those said they spoke English very well. Of the half who
reported struggling with the language, more than a quarter attending classes to
improve it.

The poll also showed immigrants consider the language barrier the greatest
source of stress in their lives.

Neng Xiong, 35, came to St. Paul 12 years ago but speaks little English because
he must stay home to care for his six children and his wife, who has kidney
failure and receives dialysis.

He had to drop English classes and doesn't get out much except to parent-teacher
conferences, where his children interpret for him. "It's very stressful," he
said through an interpreter. "If you came to my country, you would understand
and feel the same way."

Teresa Macias, 47, said she and her husband and their junior high school-age
daughter are trying to improve their English but haven't had time because of
their jobs and other school work. But the determined family recently bought a
language instruction video.

"We just want to move forward with our lives," she said.

To blend or not?

While memories of home remain strong, the desire to blend into America's ethnic
stew beckons these newest immigrants as it has earlier immigrants.

More than 90 percent of immigrants polled wanted their children to become
bilingual, speaking both English and the language of their native country.

Half want their families to both retain their culture and to become more
American, rejecting the poll's question to choose one or the other culture.

Bianca Eguia, 37, is an interpreter for the St. Paul Public Schools and wants
her four children to grow up bilingual and bicultural.

"It is who they are," she said. "It is inside them."

Va Xiong, a 17-year-old student at Highland Park Senior High, said she wants to
be as American as possible, but not give up Hmong culture.

"That is the culture of my father and grandfather and great-grandfather and
great-great-grandfather, so we don't want to lose that culture," she said.

Yet two-thirds said it would be OK for someone in their family to marry someone
from another culture.

While almost half of immigrants polled said they miss their old country and hope
to return someday, more than a third said that while they miss it, they're glad
they left.

Mattessich of Wilder Research said that of the four groups, the Somalis and
other Africans - among the state's newest newcomers - seem to stand apart. They
report speaking and understanding English best of the four groups. If they don't
understand English, they are most likely enrolled in a class to improve their
English.

However, they are least likely to approve of marriage outside their culture and
most want to retain their own culture. They express the most desire to return to
their homeland if it could be made safe.

"We want to stick with our culture," declared Abdi Guled, 34, who arrived two
months ago from a Somali refugee camp in Kenya. He said Somalis reject elements
of American culture they see on television, such as sex outside of marriage.

But he likes American self-sufficiency, hard work and punctuality. "Most times,
for Somalis, we say, 'We will come at 4 o'clock,' and we come at 4:30, but
Americans like to do everything on time," he said.

American time also presents problems. In Somalia, as in many Islamic countries,
prayer callers sing out daily reminders of when to pray. Not here, though. "So
you've got to watch the clock all the time to remember to pray," he said.

Free to believe

The new immigrants have brought a new religious diversity with them, and some
have embraced new faiths.

Two-thirds of Hmong said they still practice their traditional animistic
religion, believing that spirits inhabit nature and people. But almost a quarter
said they are now Christian.

Of Somalis, nearly all said they are Muslim, while other African immigrants
reported more religious diversity. Of Latinos, 75 percent reported being
Catholic while 54 percent of Russian and other former Soviets identified
themselves as Jews and 29 percent reported no religion.

Almost none of the immigrants reported any pressure to change their religion. Of
the 18 percent of all the immigrants said they encountered difficulty practicing
their religion here, nearly a third of Hmong and Asian immigrants expressed
difficulty. Hmong traditional religion uses shamans who often sacrifice animals
in rituals, a practice at odds with some urban zoning or housing codes,
requiring long trips outside the Twin Cities.

A good education

Almost two-thirds of the immigrants polled have children; of those, 61 percent
have children enrolled in public or private schools.

Although the overwhelming majority think their children's schools are safe and
nearly all the immigrants cited Minnesota's schools as a magnet for moving here,
over a third said their children's teachers don't understand their culture.

Still, Mattessich said that result suggests teachers are doing better than most
people might expect handling the diversity of cultures present in their
classrooms every day.

Neng Xiong, whose children attend Mississippi Elementary School, said that
before 1990 he found few teachers who understood the Hmong, with some mistaking
them for Chinese.

"But after that, more and more understand Hmong culture and now most teachers
understand more about Hmong culture," he said.

Minnesota life

The unique pleasures of Minnesota life are enticing a majority of new
immigrants, just as they appeal to longtime Minnesotans.

The Mall of America and the many parks in the Land of 10,000 Lakes finished in a
dead-heat as the most-visited recreational attractions, with nearly nine of 10
immigrants reporting trips to both. Nearly three-quarters had visited the public
library. About 60 percent had seen a movie or been to a museum.

Olga Repeshcuk, 26, a Soviet Jew who immigrated two years ago, said her husband
fell in love with steak-on-a-stick at the State Fair. "It's like shish-kabob,
big pieces of meat on a stick; it's an old Russian tradition," she said.

Kia Yang, 60, has been to the Science Museum of Minnesota, but wasn't impressed
with seeing dinosaur bones - "They were not important," she said through an
interpreter. Still, of all museums, the Science Museum was visited most by
immigrants.

Even though many of the immigrants come from places where snow and sub-zero cold
are unknown, they aren't complaining: Nearly two-thirds said they like winter
and snow.

And nobody enjoys winter more than the Russians. Nearly nine out of 10 revel in
a cold snap - and many said it reminded them of home.

"The climate is almost the same as Belarus!" Mikhail Rubinchik, 41, happily
reported.

Nearly two-thirds of Hmong and three-quarters of Latinos reported liking winter,
too. "Cold is better than heat," said Maria Isabel Flores, 39, who fled El
Salvador a decade ago.

But Minnesota's most recent immigrants, the Somalis from the deserts of Africa,
shiver in their new home. Nearly two-thirds said they dislike the snow and cold,
but many, like Abdi Guled, exhibit a stoicism about winter worthy of true
Minnesotans:

"It's part of nature, so it comes from God, so I have to accept it," he said
through an interpreter.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5475. Theresa Monsour can be reached at (651) 228-5457 or at
tmonsour@pioneerpress.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The New Face of Minnesota

NOTES: Page 7A: The Poll, About the Series, Project Staff

GRAPHIC: 2 photos: JIM GEHRZ, PIONEER PRESS
Opiew Cham, 28, a refugee from Sudan, puts his hand over his heart
during the U.S. national anthem at a naturalization ceremony at the
Mall of America in February. Forty-three people from 23 countries
became U.S. citizens. A new poll shows that immigrants largely think
they have found a good life in Minnesota, although not every aspect of
American life is easy or pleasant.
Neil Potts of Edina, a volunteer at the Minneapolis-St. Paul
International Airport, watches a Somali family that has just arrived
in Minnesota. Among the groups of new immigrants polled, Somalis
expressed the most desire to return to their homeland if it became a
safer place to live.
Graphic
Immigrating to Minnesota
What attracts immigrants to Minnesota? What have they left behind? Do
they want their children to assimilate or retain their original
culture? What is the greatest stress in their lives? A Pioneer Press
poll provides a glimpse of what it's like to immigrate to Minnesota.
Why they came
Hmong
Hmong immigrants were nearly unanimous in saying they left their
native country of Laos because they feared violent retribution from
the communist Lao government for joining the U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency's secret army in Laos during the Vietnam War. Three-quarters
said they relocated to the United States and Minnesota to reunite with
family. Half said job availability in Minnesota also attracted them.
Two-thirds practice a traditional shamanistic religion of spirit
worship and more than 30 percent said they found it hard to practice
their religion, more than any other group polled.
Latino
Nearly two-thirds of Latino immigrants polled said they left their
home country to find a better job, the only group to cite jobs as a
primary reason for leaving. Sixty-one percent had lived somewhere else
in the United States before moving to Minnesota, behind only Somali
immigrants among the groups polled. More than eight in 10 - the
largest percentage of the four groups surveyed - answered yes when
asked "Do you think it's okay for people in your family to marry
someone from another culture?"
Russian and other former Soviets
Almost nine of 10 reported relocating directly to Minnesota from
their homeland, the highest percentage of any of the four groups.
Because of a demographic quirk, the Russians polled comprised the
oldest of the four immigrant groups, with more than 80 percent
reporting they were over age 49. They also reported the highest
percentage of college graduates - 45.9 percent.
Somali
Nearly every Somali surveyed identified themselves as Muslim and
12.4 percent reported difficulty practicing Islam in Minnesota.
Although they are Minnesota's newest immigrants among the four groups
surveyed, they reported the highest percentage of members who said
they speak and understand English "very well" - 39.4 percent.
Combine those who report speaking and understanding English ver well
with those who say they have only a little trouble, and two-thirds of
Somalis are included, a larger number than any of the four immigrant
groups in the survey.
Profiles
Life in Minnesota
(see microfilm for completer details)

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 17, 2000 Monday

LEGAL HOCUS-POCUS NOT AN OPTION FOR MOST IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: NICK COLEMAN, Staff Columnist

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 658 words


The custody battle over Elian Gonzalez was still in full swing as this was
written (too bad King Solomon can't just threaten to settle it with a sword -
half for dad, half for the Miami relatives), but one lesson already is clear:
It's lucky the kid is from Cuba.

If he weren't Cuban, the kid would have been sent back to where he came from in
a New York minute. Make that a Haitian minute, a Chinese minute or a Mexican
minute. Since Congress and Bill Clinton passed a punitive revision of
immigration laws in 1996, if you wash up on these shores from anywhere but Cuba
(and don't have well-heeled relatives) you won't be here long enough to visit
Disney World.

I don't know the right thing to do with Elian. If you can't see both sides of
the argument, you are either Janet Reno or have a heart of stone. But the
troubling thing is that Elian's case has gotten a thousand times more attention
than the cases of thousands of other immigrants. If nothing else, the
heart-tugging crusade to keep Elian in the United States should open our eyes to
the routine cruelties of a system that often separates families and sends
long-term residents back to despotic nations.

"What's going on is un-American," says Judith Golub, director of advocacy for
the Washington-based American Immigration Lawyers Association. "Haitian kids are
being deported back to Haiti in about five seconds. And if you're worried about
sending Elian to Communist Cuba, what about the unaccompanied minors who get
deported back to China? We have very vindictive, harsh laws with no flexibility.
And we are violating the principles that made us strong as a nation."

Golub was in the Twin Cities on Friday to speak at an immigration law conference
at the University of Minnesota. She blamed "anti-immigration hysteria" for
passage of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of
1996, which deprived aliens of a court hearing before they are deported and
which retroactively made misdemeanors sufficient to warrant deportation, even if
committed decades ago.

There is, for example, the case of a young man from Thailand who came to the
United States as an infant, was unable to gain citizenship because of a
government snafu, and wound up, at 22, being deported to Thailand, where he
knows neither the language nor the culture. Then there's the Georgia mother of
two who was adopted from Germany as an infant by an American couple; the
government tried to deport her because of a hair-pulling incident when she was a
teen-ager.

If these cases sound ridiculous, please remember that there are thousands more
that involve the breakup of American families whose foreign-born members -
because of youthful indiscretions or long-ago misdemeanor convictions - are
deported without a chance to plead their case in court. They may not receive the
Elian media blitz, but the bum's rush they are getting says more about our
nation than the fate of one boy. The disparity has become so troubling that
angry members of the Congressional Black Caucus have denounced what they call a
double standard giving favorable treatment to Cubans and turning everyone else
aside.

Whatever the outcome of Elian's case, the 1996 law is causing hardship and
heartbreak for thousands of new American families. It should be fixed so
immigrants who have been here for years can have their day in court before being
deported.

"We need to change the law so that American values of due process and judicial
review are put back in place," says Golub.

In other words, my fellow Americans, we can't have it both ways. If Elian
Gonzalez should stay in the United States, then we ought to make it easier for
thousands of other new Americans to stay here, too, or at least to give them a
chance in court to show they should have another chance. Anything less than that
would be, well, un-American.

Nick Coleman can be reached at ncoleman@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5472.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 20, 2000 Thursday

METRO BRIEFING

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 467 words


ST. PAUL

400 marijuana plants seized in raid:

One man was arrested Wednesday when St. Paul police raided his home on Pacific
Street and seized more than 400 marijuana plants that had been growing in the
basement.

The basement reportedly had an extensive lighting system that was lit at all
hours along with an irrigation system to water the plants.

The plants could produce marijuana with a street value of about $400,000.

-- Staff Report
PLYMOUTH

2 brothers arrested in railroad grass fire:

Two brothers have been arrested in connection with a grass fire that caused an
estimated $1 million in damage to a railroad track.

The April 8 fire was set along some tracks near Medicine Lake in Plymouth and
burned 25 acres. A search warrant said remnants from road flares were found at
the scene.

Union Pacific Railroad was forced to rebuild the track and shut down a railyard.

The two men are from Faribault. Charges were expected to be filed Thursday.

-- Associated Press
MINNEAPOLIS

Lawyers hopeful about 8 immigrants' deportation fight:

Lawyers for eight illegal immigrants who were fired last October by the Holiday
Inn Express in Minneapolis are hopeful their clients will be allowed to remain
in the United States rather than be deported.

At a news conference Wednesday evening, the lawyers said they are negotiating
with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to give the immigrants the
opportunity to remain in this country for an unspecified amount of time. The
eight face a deportation hearing Tuesday.

U.S. Sen. Paul Wellstone attended the news conference to express support for the
immigrants and noted that he had spoken on their behalf to INS officials in
Washington, D.C.

The workers, all from Mexico, were detained Oct. 13, 1999, after the hotel
manager notified the INS that the workers were not documented. The workers were
arrested during a union organizing campaign, and the local labor movement
quickly acted on their behalf.

The National Labor Relations Board and the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission both investigated the hotel's actions and brought charges of unlawful
discrimination and unfair labor practices against Holiday Inn Express.

The hotel settled the case and paid each worker $8,000.

-- Staff Report
VADNAIS HEIGHTS

Portable toilets banned:

Vadnais Heights banned portable toilets from residential yards, with several
exceptions, Tuesday night.

Citing complaints from residents about the placement of satellite toilets next
to swimming pools in yards, the City Council agreed to enact an ordinance
prohibiting such use.

Exceptions would be disasters that left residents without electricity or special
community events or festivals, Mayor Susan Banovetz said.

-- Marisa Agha, Staff Writer

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 23, 2000 Sunday

INS AGENT ASSIGNED TO CALM ELIAN

BYLINE: MIMI WHITEFIELD, Knight Ridder News Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration and Naturalization Service agent Betty Mills, who cradled Elian
Gonzalez in her arms as they left his relatives' Little Havana home, played one
of the most critical roles in the pre-dawn seizure of the scared little boy.

Her instructions: Locate Elian, get him safely into a waiting van, and stay with
him and allay his fears until federal agents reunited him with his father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez, at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland.

After Elian was found in a closet, Mills told him in Spanish: "I know this seems
frightening to you now, but it will all be over very soon," said Russ Bergeron,
director of media relations for the INS. "She told him: 'We're not going to take
you to Cuba. We're not going to put you on a raft. We're taking you to see your
papa."'

During the flight to Maryland, aboard a U.S. Marshals Service plane, Mills, 33,
repeated that message, which psychological experts consulted by the INS said
would "help overcome (Elian's) anxiety and assuage any fears," said Bergeron.

Once they were aboard the plane, he never left Mills' lap, said INS officials.
It was his first airplane trip.

"Elian is very interactive with his adult caregiver. He was calm on the flight
and he bonded with her immediately," said Karen Kraushaar, an INS spokeswoman
who spoke with Mills after the plane landed at the base.

Mills, an eight-year veteran of the INS, had been chosen specifically for the
role because experts advised the INS that a Spanish-speaking female agent would
be the least intimidating for the delicate role of extracting Elian from the
Miami home.

"We determined very early on that she would be the appropriate person for this
operation. She had all the pieces we were looking for," said Kraushaar. "As a
law enforcement officer she was wedded to a very scary situation and she
performed admirably."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 24, 2000 Monday

TEACHER TAKES STUDENTS TO NATIVE CUBA;
ST. PAUL ACADEMY PLANS EDUCATIONAL TRIP IN JUNE

BYLINE: Kristina Torres, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 557 words


DETAILS
Rolando Castellanos left Cuba in 1978 on the first immigrant visa issued by Cuba
since 1959. His parents, allowed into the United States as political refugees,
had already been gone a decade.
Rolando Castellanos left Cuba in 1978 and never looked back. His parents, who
preceded him here, own a meat market near St. Cloud. He taught here, married and
had kids.

But during a family trip to Mexico last year, a different kind of thinking came
into his head. He, a Spanish teacher who travels with his students to different
countries, had done nothing but fly over the island that still owns a corner of
his heart.

"Why don't we expose students to the colors, the smells, the sounds of a culture
that is rich and vibrant?" asked Castellanos, who has secured a two-year travel
license on behalf of St. Paul Academy and will travel to Havana with 26 students
June 14-25.

"Every day, I get a new emotion," Castellanos said. "I truly never thought I
would go back to Cuba ever again."

Last year, President Clinton announced new federal measures meant to encourage,
among other things, educational and cultural exchanges between U.S. and Cuban
citizens. Universities and colleges have taken advantage.

Students from St. Olaf College spent most of January visiting Ernest Hemingway's
Cuban haunts. That same month, the University of St. Thomas' baseball team flew
south to play a few games, a visit that will be reciprocated when a Cuban
baseball team travels here later this year.

Cuban officials have told Castellanos and other academy officials that high
school students make the trip less often, although a U.S. Treasury Department
spokeswoman said it is not uncommon for a high school to secure permission for
its students to travel to Cuba.

But Castellanos' return has a more personal meaning. He left in 1978 on the
first immigrant visa issued by Cuba since 1959. His parents, allowed into the
United States as political refugees, had already been gone a decade.

"I cried my heart out when my parents left," said Castellanos, who was 16 at the
time and not allowed to leave because of military eligibility.

He taught high school in Cuba for eight years. Then, in 1977, his parents asked
a Minnesota congressman traveling to Cuba to intercede on their son's behalf. On
July 21, 1978, Castellanos joined his family, which now included his sister.
Exactly five years later, he applied for U.S. citizenship.

"Why not Cuba?" he asks now, smiling and gesturing with slender, graceful hands.
His wife and two children will accompany him on the trip. His grandmother, who
also immigrated here, died wishing to be buried alongside her husband in Cuba.
So he will bring her ashes.

He will bring medicine to his former nanny, who is ailing. He will bring himself
to his uncle and cousins. But, just as important, he will bring his American
students to his homeland.

"We will not be doing a lot of tourism," said Castellanos, whose group will
visit three Havana schools and sleep in dormitories during their stay. "Our
intent is to give our students a chance to meet teen-agers from Cuba and find
out what's on their minds. We have a lot to teach them and they have a lot to
teach us."

Kristina Torres, who covers education and school choice issues, can be reached
at ktorres@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-2120.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: GINGER PINSON, PIONEER PRESS
1) It has been 22 years since Rolando Castellanos, right, has been in
his native country of Cuba. In June, the Spanish teacher at St. Paul
Academy will take 26 students with him to expose them to a different
culture. Three of the students who will join him are, from left to
right, Jake Trotzky-Sirr, Obianuju Obi and Alex Symes.
2) St. Paul Academy has become the first high school in Minnesota
authorized to visit Cuba for a cultural and educational exchange. Led
by Cuban-born teacher Rolando Castellanos, 26 students and four adults
will embark on the trip June 14-25.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 28, 2000 Friday

ELIAN'S PLIGHT HUMANIZES PEOPLE, INSTITUTIONS THAT PROTECT BORDERS

BYLINE: Bruce Corrrie, Columnist

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 615 words


Thank you, Elian Gonzalez! You have given America a window of opportunity to
look at the immigration process through the experience of a child.

When I saw you in the arms of the officer hurriedly rushing to the waiting car,
I felt the pain of a father helplessly watching the vulnerability of a child.
That moment of pain shared by many in this country will help us as we think
about the immigration process. We need to humanize that process once again!

To many, the immigration process is one filled with fear and uncertainty,
vulnerable to the interpretation of the law by an officer with great
discretionary power. However, in your case we saw the justice machinery creating
space for an opportunity for reconciliation - a situation that many before you
did not have the luxury to experience. Husbands have been separated from wives,
children from their parents, and workers from their job offers.

The image of an officer with a gun, threatening, but at the same time hoping he
would not have to shoot, aptly captures the experience of immigration officers
whose job is to enforce the law. Now I understand why they appear heartless and
cruel - perhaps that is how they cope with the high emotional cost of their job.
Our immigration and consular officers have a tough job to do, very often because
of extremely heavy workloads they have to make quick decisions in minutes abut
who gets into the country. Here is where civility and basic courtesy can get
lost.

Your journey of pain will help humanize the institutions and people who protect
our borders.

For instance, the next time a grandmother crosses the border to come to this
country, perhaps the officer will not treat her like a criminal, read her
personal letters, and before she knows it whisk her away and leave her in the
middle of the night, alone, across the border. Perhaps he will now be like the
immigration officer on the other side of the border who offered the stranded
lady a hot cup of coffee and a place to sit while she waited through the night
for a ride.

Or the next time a consular officer in a foreign country will remember your
journey to America as he or she looks at the long line of people who have been
waiting, in the cold or heat, for many hours for the embassy to open. He or she
may realize that you do not have to be rude when you enforce the law and those
simple acts of hospitality will warm the heart of a person tired after a long
grueling process.

Your journey might also help us reconcile two branches of government that might
be at odds in the immigration experience. A person awarded a visa abroad by a
consular officer can be turned back at the port of entry by an immigration
officer. One is never sure whether one will enter this country even though all
their papers are in order. This is an ultimate sense is an exercise of raw
power.

You were fortunate as you had the best brains in your country debate your case.
For many before you, money determined the quality of advice that they received.

The high-risk approach that brought you to this country reminds me of many
things in this country I now take for granted. Perhaps if we helped people in
other countries to improve their standard of living with our abundant resources,
they might not find it necessary to risk all to come here.

Elian, in your journey to this country we watched you being tossed between
tragedy, loved ones and the law. I hope that the space that the country created
for you will be a permanent one that many after you will enjoy. Thank you,
little one!

Corrie (e-mail corrie@csp.edu) is an economics professor at Concordia University
in St. Paul. He can be reached at (651) 641-8226.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 30, 2000 Sunday

PANEL DISCUSSES IMMIGRATION SERIES' IMPACT

BYLINE: Heather Johnson Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 708 words


When Hildara Blakesley moved from a tiny village in South America to her
husband's hometown of Aitkin, Minn., 25 years ago, the new bride didn't know a
word of English.

At age 24, Blakesley adjusted to the new culture with the help of her husband,
whom she met when he was a Peace Corps volunteer, and a tutor who came to her
home as part of a local program.

"That's how I got to where I am today," said Blakesley, a mother of two girls,
who after 20 years of hard work received her high school diploma in 1995.

The St. Cloud, Minn., resident shared her story Saturday during the League of
Women Voters Action Forum at the Minnesota History Center. The event was a
culmination of the League's community circle discussions on immigration held
throughout the state in the past several months.

A total of 17 communities and 1,000 people participated in the discussion
circles, said Judy Duffy, president of the Minnesota League of Women Voters. The
idea behind the "Changing Faces, Changing Communities" series was to get people
talking about Minnesota's tremendous increase in immigrant populations during
the past decade.

Minnesota's foreign-born population is believed to have increased by at least 50
percent in the 1990s, fueled by the arrival of African and Asian refugees and by
secondary migration of immigrants who moved to Minnesota from other states, such
as California, to be closer to relatives. By 2025, if current estimates prove
correct, 15 percent of Minnesota's population will be minorities, compared with
about 9 percent today.

Representatives from the circles attended Saturday's event to share results of
their discussions and brainstorm about how to implement their ideas. In nearly
all groups, issues relating to education, resources and community partnerships
were mentioned.

Many said that welcoming immigrants and acting as partners with them are key.

Those who spoke expressed a desire to see goals reach fruition and not end up,
as one woman said, as a report that gets stashed away in a drawer some place.

"We're going to try to continue this process," Duffy stressed during a break in
the program. "It's certainly had an impact throughout the state."

Many speakers praised the circles for promoting interaction among people of
different backgrounds. A few shared stories of how their involvement positively
changed their everyday relationships - with family, friends and co-workers. Many
said they learned just how diverse their own communities are.

Jane McWilliams, a member of the Northfield League of Women Voters, said she was
touched by the experience. In her group, a 16-year-old girl translated
information for several members. The girl was explaining how McWilliams was
curious about national anthems in the others' homelands when an Asian man,
understanding the question, abruptly stood up and began singing his national
anthem.

"It was one of the most moving experiences of my life," she said.

At the same time, some speakers said they had hoped for more diversity in their
circles and wondered if they couldn't have done things differently to encourage
more people to attend. A circle discussion in Austin, Minn., came up with the
mantra "Meet, Greet and Repeat" to encourage continuing relationships.

Small group discussion topics included advocacy, benefits, community services,
youth, education/language, housing and health care. From these discussions,
participants came up with lists of available resources, possible and current
collaborations, and follow-up steps.

Blakesley is eager to see what comes of the circle discussions. She knows
immigrants, both those who arrived in Minnesota years ago like herself and
newcomers, would benefit by having access to more resources - especially
mentors.

Joining the community circle discussion in St. Cloud helped as well because it
allowed her to speak freely about her immigration experience. She grew up in
Montero, Peru.

"For me, it was the greatest thing that happened," she told the group of about
100 people gathered at the history center. "This is the first time I could
express or tell my experiences since coming to this country."

Heather Johnson can be reached at hjohnson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5469.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related series: The New Face of Minnesota

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 30, 2000 Sunday

POLICE INVESTIGATE RACE-LINKED SHOOTING RAMPAGE;
SUSPECT HAS HISTORY OF MENTAL ILLNESS

BYLINE: Leonard N. Fleming and Barbara Boyer, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS, SERVICE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH


As police continued investigating Saturday the man who they say fatally shot
five people - including three immigrants - in an apparent rampage of hate
killings, a picture of a reclusive and alienated immigration lawyer began to
emerge.

Authorities said Saturday that there may be further clues in a two-page note
found in Richard Baumhammers' home. Investigators declined to say what was in
the note, which they believe Baumhammers typed.

Baumhammers was arrested Friday after allegedly shooting and killing a Jewish
woman who lived next door to him; an Indian man at a grocery; two Asian men at a
Chinese restaurant; and a black man at a karate school.

Baumhammers was described by his lawyer Saturday as deeply troubled
psychologically and under medication. "He clearly has an extensive history of
mental illness," William Difenderfer said.

The 34-year-old suspect is the son of Latvian immigrants.

He was reared in affluence in a Pittsburgh suburb of judges and doctors and
business leaders.

Nevertheless, he led an unassuming life, had an unspectacular legal career, and
in his well-to-do community was a recluse whom people say they hardly remember.

They know him now as the man police say lost control Friday during a 72-minute
killing rampage across a 20-mile stretch of southwestern Pennsylvania.

In addition to the five people killed, another man of Indian descent was shot in
the neck and critically injured.

His rampage surprised some who knew him who said it once appeared he had a
bright future.

After post-college sojourns around the country and abroad, he returned to live
with his parents in their tranquil Mount Lebanon neighborhood.

He jetted to places such as Russia and the Balkans. He studied at Cumberland Law
School in Birmingham, Ala., spent a semester at University of Heidelberg in
Germany and earned a master's degree in transnational business practice from the
University of the Pacific's McGeorge School of Law in Sacramento, Calif.

After returning home, he quit practicing law. The promising life became one of
seclusion and mystery.

Some neighbors said they didn't even know he was back in town.

"We asked for friends. We got none," said an Allegheny County police homicide
detective who requested anonymity. "He was a person who did things alone."

Baumhammers' parents, both prominent dentists, have not commented publicly on
Friday's shootings.

This report includes information from the New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Baumhammers

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 1, 2000 Monday

SHOOTING SUSPECT CALLED XENOPHOBIC;
MAN LINKED TO 5 PITTSBURGH DEATHS WAS TRYING TO FORM A POLITICAL PARTY

BYLINE: JEFFREY BAIR, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 284 words

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH


The man arrested in a killing spree that left three immigrants, a Jewish woman
and a black man dead had a history of mental illness and irrational fears that
he was being watched, a former friend and his attorney said Sunday.

Police searching the home where Richard Scott Baumhammers, 34, lived prior to
Friday's attacks also found a three-page manifesto indicating he was trying to
form a political party opposed to immigration, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
reported.

The document, which included Baumhammers' signature as "chairman" of the Free
Market Party, advocated the rights of European Americans and denounced Third
World immigration, according to a prosecution source the paper declined to name.

"From what I saw and from what I read, it seemed to advocate violence," the
source said.

Investigators reconstructing Friday's trail of death believe Baumhammers walked
into his neighbor's house and fatally shot Anita Gordon, 63, a Jewish interior
designer. They believe he then drove to her synagogue and fired at the front
doors.

Police say Baumhammers also shot up the doors of another synagogue, shot and
wounded one man and killed another at an Indian grocery, killed a Vietnamese
delivery driver and a Chinese manager at a restaurant, and gunned down a black
man at a suburban karate school. Officers eventually cornered him about 20 miles
from the first attack.

Baumhammers has been charged in one death, that of 22-year-old karate student
Garry Lee. More charges are expected this week.

Baumhammers' attorney, William Difenderfer, said Sunday that his client has a
history of mental illness, though he wouldn't elaborate.

"It is way too early to say anything," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 8, 2000 Monday

ST. THOMAS SPEAKS OUT;
SCHOOL SAYS MISSING CUBAN BASEBALL PLAYER SHOULD RETURN TO TEAM

BYLINE: Julio Ojeda-Zapata, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 685 words


A Cuban baseball player who abandoned his teammates shortly after their arrival
in the Twin Cities over the weekend should rejoin the group, the University of
St. Thomas said Sunday.

The St. Paul-based university, sponsoring the five-day visit of the collegiate
Equipo Caribe or Team Caribbean, has publicly sided with its Cuban guests in
calling Mario Chaoui's flight a mistake.

"We would like to hear from him and have him rejoin the group," said university
spokesman Doug Hennes. "He should rejoin the group and be part of the rest of
the week."

Hennes said the university is heeding the Cubans' "sentiments on this," even
though the Immigration and Naturalization Service has urged school officials to
remain neutral on the issue.

In a news conference Sunday evening, university President Dennis Dease said the
INS "has encouraged us not to intervene in a matter that is between (Chaoui) and
the INS."

Beyond public statements that advocate Chaoui's return, the university is
apparently taking no action to influence the 20-year-old Havana second baseman
one way or the other.

"We're hoping that the young man will check in with us or the immigration
service so we know he's OK," the Rev. Dease said.

That has not happened, said Hennes, since Chaoui split off from his teammates at
the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport on Saturday afternoon and slipped
into what the university official calls a "dark compact" car. Witnesses were
unable to read the vehicle's license plate, he said.

The 50-person Cuban delegation also said it has had no contact with Chaoui,
Hennes said.

Hennes spoke with the INS Sunday morning but said the agency has limited
authority.

"They have to wait for him to call," said Hennes, who notes that Chaoui has a
30-day visa to move freely in the United States. "He has not broken any laws. He
has only broken a team rule."

The two dozen Cuban beisbolistas and others from the University of Havana and a
Cuban technical institute said little of Chaoui as they toured the Twin Cities
in two University of St. Thomas buses on Sunday.

"We came to the states to have a sports exchange and academics exchange, not to
have a migration exchange," team captain Osmar Fernandez said. "We don't know
why (Chaoui) has made this decision. In Cuba, we have everything we need."

Fernandez and his teammates appeared nonchalant and even buoyant as they gaped
at Jesse Ventura's state Capitol digs, donned rosary beads at a St. Paul
Cathedral ceremony and posed for photos with St. Paul police officers on
horseback and members of their University of St. Thomas security detail. Despite
Chaoui's departure, security around the team did not perceptibly increase on
Sunday.

Delegation leaders sternly kept journalists off the team bus but otherwise
allowed players to mix freely with Minnesotans, including an elderly
cathedral-goer who genially accepted an armful of cameras as he became temporary
group photographer.

"They're something else," said John Douthit of the boisterous athletes.

In a moment of Latino solidarity as the convoy moved past the Cinco de Mayo
festival on St. Paul's largely Mexican-American West Side, Cuban academicians
and delegation coordinators enthusiastically sang a folk melody well known in
Mexican culture:

Ay, ay, ay, ay, canta y no llores,

porque cantando se alegra,

cielito lindo, los corazones.

("Sing and don't cry, because singing, my dear, gladdens hearts.")

The Cuban team's Minnesota visit is to be highlighted by its exhibition game
against the St. Thomas baseball team at noon Tuesday in the Metrodome.
University officials have said Chaoui's departure would have no impact on other
activities planned this week.

These will include a pilgrimage of sorts this afternoon to St. Paul City Hall
and its large bust of Jose Marti, a historical figure who is revered in Cuba
much as George Washington and Abraham Lincoln are here. The bust is a long-ago
gift from Cuba to St. Paul.

Julio Ojeda-Zapata can be reached at ojeda@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5467.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story on Page 4A.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janet Hostetter, Pioneer Press
Geovany Casanova Salas snaps a photograph of his Cuban teammates
enjoying a very American dining experience - a complimentary burger
King meal complete with hats - in Minneapolis after practicing at the
Metrodome on Sunday night.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 10, 2000 Wednesday

CUBAN'S CHANCES TO WIN ASYLUM IN U.S. IS GOOD

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 606 words


Defecting Cuban baseball player Mario Miguel Chaoui will be in good company when
he applies for political asylum in the coming weeks.

Last year, 237 Cubans applied for asylum with the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, and 187 cases were approved, the agency said Tuesday,
one day after Chaoui appeared at a news conference in Miami announcing that he
would seek asylum.

The 20-year-old college student had disappeared from his baseball team, Equipo
Caribe - "Team Caribbean" - soon after its members arrived at Minneapolis-St.
Paul International Airport on Saturday, spirited away by an uncle who came up
from Miami to persuade his nephew to defect.

The team is part of a 54-person Cuban delegation on a five-day cultural exchange
sponsored by the University of St. Thomas, which sent its baseball team to the
Caribbean island nation in January.

Anybody from Afghanistan to Yugoslavia can and has applied for asylum in the
United States, but because of their history, Cubans have an easier time than any
other group of getting permission to stay.

To apply for asylum, a person has to show a likelihood of persecution because of
race, religion, nationality, political opinions or membership in a group.

"Any time you claim you're fleeing Communism - and Cuba being the pariah in the
world that it is now - I've got to think that his chances are great," said
Audrey Carr, a staff attorney with the Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, a
nonprofit legal service.

Cubans also have available to them a federal law dating back to 1966 that allows
them to apply for permanent residency after one year in the United States as
long as they reach American soil. Illegal immigrants from no other country have
such a broad, long-lasting exception to the usual process of claiming asylum.

So far this year, 88 Cubans have applied for asylum with the INS nationwide, and
61 cases filed previously have been approved.

The numbers of applications has been dropping steadily since 1995, however,
after hitting a high of 3,155 in 1994. The United States and Cuba agreed in 1995
that anyone intercepted off U.S. soil - at sea, for instance - would be returned
to Cuba.

The United States allows up to 20,000 Cubans to immigrate legally, but it is up
to Cuba to approve their departure, an INS spokesman said. In 1998, the last
year for which statistics are available, Cuba approved 17,375 departures, said
INS spokesman Dan Kane.

Some asylum seekers complain that sports stars or celebrities who defect receive
preferential treatment, but everyone has to meet the same standards for asylum,
said Rick Kenney, spokesman for the Executive Office for Immigration Review, a
branch of the Department of Justice separate from the INS.

Someone from Canada, for instance, might have to work much harder than someone
from Cuba to make an argument for asylum, but Kenney noted that last year 21
people applied for asylum from Canada and two applications were approved.

"So, you know, the numbers are small but it's not impossible," he said.

On Tuesday, Chaoui planned on spending a quiet day with his Miami relatives,
said a representative of sports agent Joe Cubas, who has represented nearly two
dozen other defecting Cuban baseball players.

Chaoui plans on talking to his family in Cuba by the end of the week, said
Kirian Vega, one of Cubas' assistants.

"They didn't know what he's doing. He's afraid of what would happen to them,"
Vega said, adding that Chaoui's father, mother and 12-year-old sister are in
Cuba.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: Bill Alkofer, Pioneer Press
1) Cuban pride was on display at the Metrodome in Minneapolis on
Tuesday as students from the University of Havana cheered on their
baseball team. The Cuban college players defeated the University of
St. Thomas 8-0 in front of a crowd of 4,750. The exhibition game, part
of a cultural exchange between St. Thomas and the Cubans, was
broadcast on cable television here and in seven other states. The
Cubans' victory came three days after second baseman Mario Miguel
Chaoui slipped away from the delegation at the Twin Cities airport and
one day after he announced in Miami that he was seeking political
asylum.
2) David Wehrwein, a 7-year-old student from Adams Spanish Immersion
School in St. Paul, helps keep the drum beat during a cheer with Elier
Rodriquez Tarifa of the University of Havana. Tuesday's game
represented only the third appearance by a Cuban baseball team in the
United States since Fidel Castro led the Cuban revolution in 1959.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 23, 2000 Tuesday

KENYAN WINS REPRIEVE IN DEPORTATION CASE

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 336 words


In a surprising turnaround, the Twin Cities office of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service on Monday granted a two-month reprieve to a 43-year-old
Kenyan immigrant who was facing possible deportation.

Philip Momanyi, who came to the United States 13 years ago as a college student,
had until Monday to leave the country voluntarily or face deportation. The
Minneapolis man had applied unsuccessfully for political asylum over the past
eight years and was asking for more time to get an answer on a new plea before
the country's highest tribunal for immigration matters.

Momanyi filed a new appeal in March to the U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals in
Fairfax, Va., saying that if he returns to Kenya, his 6-year-old American-born
daughter would be forced to undergo female circumcision, a ritual of genital
mutilation that is practiced on millions of women in 26 African countries.

Curtis Aljets, district director of the INS, could not be reached for comment
Monday but Momanyi and his attorney, Lesley Guyton, said they were surprised but
pleased with the extension.

"We consider that a victory," Momanyi said.

Aljets made the decision after about 50 of Momanyi's supporters from his church,
Progressive Missionary Baptist Church of St. Paul, and other churches turned out
in a peaceful demonstration in front of the INS office in Bloomington on Monday.

Representatives from the churches met privately with Aljets afterward, Guyton
said.

In 1996, the appeals board set a precedent when it granted a Togo woman
political asylum to escape genital mutilation. It was the first case to
recognize female circumcision as a legitimate grounds for asylum.

The daughter is not legally required to join her father in Kenya because she is
a U.S. citizen, but many immigrant parents in similar situations face the choice
of separating from their children or taking them to a country they never knew.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 1, 2000 Thursday

20 YEARS AGO, FORT MCCOY PROCESSED 14,000 CUBANS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: SPARTA, WIS.


Twenty years ago, an immigration wave known as the Freedom Flotilla brought more
than 125,000 Cubans to the United States, including more than 14,000 to Fort
McCoy.

Miguel Leon-Padron, 19, gave a thumbs-up sign as he entered the western
Wisconsin military base's Refugee Resettlement Center May 29, 1980.

Miguel was one of the first 172 Cuban refugees at the fort. He was barefoot,
hungry and wore his only possessions: A white shirt and blue jeans.

He had come to America by boat, braving the stormy Straits of Florida.

Fort McCoy was designated the fourth refugee resettlement center nationwide for
the newcomers. Events at the 60,000-acre post made national and international
news.

The six-month refugee resettlement from late May to early November benefited the
region's economy. It was also a headache for federal and Fort McCoy officials
and a hassle for local law enforcement agencies.

Hundreds of summer jobs were created, especially for students with Spanish
language training. Millions of dollars were spent on food, supplies and services
to support the center.

Before the summer passed, area residents and refugees would share the pains and
joys of birth, life and death. They would experience the exhilaration of the
new-found freedom as Cubans kissed U.S. soil and shouted "Viva, America."

They would learn of frustration as freedom proved elusive for some Cubans,
leading to the breaking of fences and destruction of property.

Little did the hosts originally know that almost 90 percent of 14,360 refugees
who arrived at Fort McCoy were not political prisoners but were criminals and
mental patients dumped in the United States by Cuban Premier Fidel Castro.

By mid-July, problems began to bubble beneath the surface.

A series of events changed the orderliness of the first half of the resettlement
effort into chaos that marked the second half. Inside the refugee compound were
stabbings, homosexual assaults, fights, extortion and riots.

Many refugees climbed fences and escaped, following Wisconsin 21 to the tiny
village of Tunnel City where they struck terror into residents.

Homes in Tunnel City were burglarized. Residents demanded a meeting with
government officials.

The number of crimes rose dramatically in the La Crosse area where refugees were
assigned to families. Kay Mann, a Spanish-speaking lawyer, handled 350 to 400
court cases involving about 200 different Cuban defendants.

One crime brought international attention: The murder of a Cuban refugee sponsor
by a refugee.

Lene Cespedes-Torres was convicted of murdering sponsor Berniece Taylor in her
Tomah home Sept. 13, 1980.

The killing accompanied increasing community resentment and heightened tension
at the fort as relocation began of the last 3,000 unsponsored Cubans.

The murder was the single event that made sponsorship of other Cuban refugees
almost impossible in the area, said Paul Amberson, who had worked with a
sponsorship agency, the United States Catholic Conference.

More than 1,000 refugees were sent to prisons.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 9, 2000 Friday

E. AFRICANS' FEST TO PROMOTE ETHNIC PEAC;
IMMIGRANTS WHOSE HOMELANDS OFTEN FEUD WILL GATHER

BYLINE: Leslie Brooks Suzukamo, Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


IF YOU GO
WHAT: The second annual African Festival
WHEN: Saturday, noon to 7 p.m.
WHERE: Matthews Park, 2318 29th Ave. S., Minneapolis
ADMISSION: Free
DETAILS: (612) 339-7418
Their home countries may sometimes be at war with one another, but on Saturday,
an African organization is trying to bring the nearly dozen East African ethnic
communities together to bridge cultural differences and promote harmony.

The group PEACE - Parents of East Africans Common Efforts - is holding its
second annual African festival in Matthews Park in Minneapolis, hoping to expand
from its first festival that drew 1,000 people, said Dabala Rikitu, PEACE
executive director.

This time, the group expects to draw between 2,000 to 4,000 people, Rikitu said.
PEACE has 5,000 members, he said.

Nobody knows the exact size of the East African immigrant population in the Twin
Cities, but it has grown considerably in the past five years, fueled in large
part by Somali refugees. The size of Minnesota's Somali population alone is
estimated at anywhere from 20,000 to 40,000.

Immigrants like Rikitu said their group began in 1994 to combat the images of
war and ethnic strife that follow many East African immigrants from their native
countries, some of which have been at war with one another, like the neighboring
countries of Ethiopia and Eritrea.

"The only thing you hear about is war and animosity among African groups,"
Rikitu said. "We're trying to create a positive image."

The picnic is co-sponsored by the Hennepin County District Court, which has been
working with a federal grant to try to expand contact with Hennepin County's
burgeoning African community. The court system will have a booth at the fair
handing out brochures on the legal system translated into the languages of
Somali and Oromo, said Diane Carlson, the court's finance manager and
coordinator for the outreach.

The festival, scheduled from noon to 7 p.m. at the park at 2318 29th Ave. S.,
will feature five different ethnic musical bands, 10 ethnic food vendors and a
soccer tournament.

Leslie Brooks Suzukamo can be reached at lsuzukamo@pioneerpress.com or at (651)
228-5475.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            June 21, 2000 Wednesday

SUSPECT ARRESTED IN DOVER TRAGEDY THAT LEFT 58 DEAD;
COUSIN'S JOURNEY RETOLD BY REFUGEE

BYLINE: MAUREEN JOHNSON, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Police arrested a second suspect in the deaths of 58 illegal immigrants, and a
Chinese refugee came forward Tuesday to say his cousin called repeatedly during
a four-month odyssey from China through Russia and into Western Europe and was
almost certainly among the dead.

The immigrants were found dead late Sunday at the English port of Dover,
apparently suffocated in the back of a sealed truck on the disastrous final leg
of their long journey.

The Dutch driver of the truck was detained in Dover and held on suspicion of
manslaughter, and on Tuesday, Dutch authorities announced the second arrest.
They said they captured the suspect during a raid on three houses in the Dutch
port of Rotterdam on Monday.

Police did not release the suspect's name and refused to say if the suspect was
a man they had been pursuing - Dutch engineer Arie Van der Spek, 24, who owned
the company that leased the truck. Police said earlier that Van der Spek
registered the company, Van der Spek Transporten, on June 15. He vanished before
police showed up at his Rotterdam apartment Monday.

In Dover, Dutch and British police interrogated the truck driver who brought the
young immigrants, most in their 20s, on the last leg of their trip from southern
China's Fujian province.

Quoting unidentified hospital sources, reports in London newspapers said the two
survivors told an interpreter how they banged on the truck's walls and shouted,
their desperation mounting as their companions began to pass out and die.

The survivors are key to tracing the smugglers who organized the hellish journey
across the English Channel from Belgium - the immigrants were packed in among
tomatoes, and the truck's refrigeration unit was turned off as temperatures
outside reached the high 80s, the hottest day of the year so far in Europe.

Police hoped the two men would soon be fit enough for formal questioning.

Meanwhile, a Chinese immigrant said he was sure his cousin, Chen Lin, 19, was
among those who died.

Yang Chen, who slipped into Britain in January and has applied for political
asylum, said Chen Lin's parents had borrowed $21,000 for the trip. Chen Lin left
the city of Changle in Fujian province in February.

Chen Lin phoned home regularly during the tortuous journey through China,
Russia, on foot through the mountains of the Czech Republic and then to the
Netherlands, Yang said.

An estimated 150,000 Chinese are in Britain, many working for low wages in
restaurants in London's Chinatown district. A Chinese attorney in London,
Wahplow Tan, said relatives of other victims feared deportation if they came
forward.

Still, the immigrants keep coming. Britain's Home Office said 128 people had
been caught at Dover alone since Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Matt Devine, Kent News via Associated Press
One of nine suspected illegal immigrants climbs out of a truck from
Belgium that was stopped in Maidstone, England, after passing through
the port of Dover on Tuesday. The nine men, believed to be Iranians,
were bound for Manchester.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 26, 2000 Monday

IMMIGRATION: HOW MANY MORE PEOPLE CAN WE ABSORB?

BYLINE: Alan K. Simpson and Richard D. Lamm, Commentators

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 681 words


It is most important to recognize that the new census figures showing a
population of 571 million Americans by the year 2100 are both a projection and a
public policy choice. It is more a question than a fact, more a choice than an
inevitability. Demography has become largely a matter of public policy choice
and, like any other public policy issue, it deserves debate.

How large do we want the U.S. population to become? Do we want to be a nation of
1 billion Americans? Five hundred million? Would this be in the national
interest? Is it in the interest of our grandchildren? Do you really want twice
as many people in America? Will that make it a better place to live?

It is these and similar questions that America must ask itself. Our society must
look at the long-term domestic impact of immigration and answer the hard
demographic questions. It isn't enough to invoke the Statue of Liberty or quote
the powerful words written on its base. We must ask, "What kind of national
interests are being served by large-scale immigration?"

The entire western United States is under tremendous growth pressure, partly
from Californians leaving California. The most common reasons for departing are
too many people, too much congestion, too much traffic, a lowering of the
quality of life. More people have left California since 1990 than actually live
in Wyoming. Is that a harbinger for the nation?

We both saw California in the 1950s, when it had 10 million people. It was
paradise. But it soon grew to 20 million, is now up to 34 million and is
expected to have 50 million people by the year 2010. We have yet to meet a
Californian who wants 50 million neighbors.

By 2040, there will be 64 million Californians - almost entirely because of
immigration. But in whose interest is it to have 50 million or 60 million people
in California or 571 million in America (and still growing)?

Public policy is filled with issues that were once thought unalterable but that
we now recognize as matters of human control and public policy. It used to be
that a person's health was a matter of "God's will," but we learned through
medicine and public health that it was substantially within human control. We
used to believe the number of children born to a woman was a matter of divine,
not human, choice. But then Margaret Sanger and other crusaders came to inspire
and teach women that they were not slaves to biology and that to limit family
size was advantageous to their health and family prosperity. It was not a matter
of destiny but of choice.

We respectfully suggest that it is not a matter of "God's will" that we double
the size of America's population, as the census figures predict will happen; it
is a public policy choice. The average American woman has two children in a
lifetime, a figure that will stabilize U.S. population in the middle of the next
century. Unless American women begin again to have large families, the
difference between doubling U.S. population and doubling it again will be due to
immigration.

How will America be better off with 571 million people? What amenities that we
now enjoy will be improved? What about urban congestion? Open space? Will 571
million people help our educational system? What will it mean with regard to
crime, and our quality of life? Are we likely to improve our social peace and
political stability?

Neils Bohr once said that "the opposite of a correct statement is a false
statement. The opposite of a profound truth may well be another profound truth."
Without question immigration has been good for America, and, of course, we all
are immigrants, directly or indirectly. But the challenge of public policy is to
recognize when circumstances change - when, as the poet warns, "time makes
ancient good uncouth."
Simpson, a former Republican senator from Wyoming, is director of the Institute
of Politics at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government; Lamm,
former Democratic governor of Colorado, is director of the Center for Public
Policy and Contemporary Issues at the University of Denver.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 6, 2000 Thursday

BUSH PLANS TO SPEED UP, STREAMLINE INS SERVICES;
HE'D CUT APPLICATION PROCESS TO 6 MONTHS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Expanding on a proposal to improve the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
George W. Bush on Wednesday pledged $500 million in new spending to cut the
average time needed to process a citizenship application to six months.

Addressing the annual convention of the National Council of La Raza, Bush said
the process now takes between three and five years. Late last year, the INS
announced that the average wait had been reduced from two years to 12 months -
and was headed lower.

"We will bring to the INS a new standard of service and a culture of respect,"
the Republican presidential contender told about 2,500 members of the Hispanic
advocacy group.

The new spending, which would be doled out over five years, is the latest part
of a proposed INS overhaul that Bush's campaign believes will resonate with the
influential Latino voting bloc.

"We've got an INS that is too bureaucratic, too stuck in the past," Bush said.

Last week, before another Hispanic audience, Bush announced to the League of
United Latin American Citizens conference in Washington that he wants to split
the INS into two agencies: a welcoming one for legitimate immigrants and a tough
one for border enforcement. He also proposed allowing relatives of permanent
residents to visit the United States while their immigration papers are being
processed.

The Texas governor reiterated his call for improved schools, free trade with
Mexico and his pride in running a state with a strong Latino influence and
entrepreneurial spirit.

Bush hailed California for being home to more than 600,000 Latino-owned small
businesses and added, "That fact says the American Dream is available for every
willing heart."

On education, among the most critical national issues for the 31 million
Hispanics making up America's fastest growing minority group, Bush said local
educators would be given greater authority on teaching decisions and would also
be held accountable for their success or failure.

Just 62 percent of Hispanic adults aged 25-29 completed high school compared
with 87 percent of blacks and 93 percent of whites, according to federal
figures.

"My vision says that every child in America can be educated and that no child
should be left behind," Bush said.

Bush's rival, Vice President Al Gore, addressed the National Council of La Raza
on Monday.

Both candidates are targeting Hispanic voters. Hispanics in New York and
California tend to favor Gore, while counterparts in Texas and Florida lean
toward Bush.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 28, 2000 Friday

BILL TO PROTECT IMMIGRANTS FROM SEX TRADE OK'D;
MINNESOTA SENATOR HAS DEVOTED YEARS TO THE LEGISLATION

BYLINE: JESSE J. HOLLAND, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A bill intended to protect thousands of foreign women and children forced into
the sex trade in the United States, and to crack down on their victimizers,
passed the Senate on Thursday.

"I think this is a wonderful day for freedom," said Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan.,
as the Senate approved the legislation on a voice vote.

A similar version of the bill also has passed the House. It will now go to
conference committee, but "the differences (between the two bills) are pretty
minimal," Brownback said.

Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., who first started working on the legislation more
than two years ago, said more than 50,000 women are brought into the United
States annually as sex slaves. Internationally, more than 700,000 woman and
girls are being used as sex slaves, he said.

"This bill will take immediate action against international sex trafficking,
before the lives of more women and girls are shattered," Wellstone said. "Today
we have taken a strong step in the fight against this abominable practice."

The legislation would stop the practice of immediately deporting victims by
providing them interim immigration relief of up to three years. Supporters of
the bill say that would give them enough time to bring charges against sex-trade
traffickers.

It also toughens current federal trafficking penalties, criminalizing all forms
of trafficking in persons.

"We're just lighting a candle for the world," Wellstone said.

Under the bill, countries that encourage trafficking in persons won't be hit
with immediate economic sanctions but officials will provide the president with
a list of such countries, at which point he can decide what to do.

"What I see it doing is providing the president with tools, not requirements,"
Brownback said.

The bill number is HR 3244.

Staff writer Tom Webb contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Wellstone

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 24, 1999 Sunday

TWO HELD IN MIGRANT SMUGGLING

SECTION: MAIN; International Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 63 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


Cuba confirmed Saturday it had arrested two Cuban-born U.S. residents for trying
to smuggle eight migrants to the United States on a trip in which a woman and a
child drowned. Sabino Serrano Lopez and Luis Enrique Santiago Rodriguez
confessed to their involvement in the voyage, Cuba's Interior Ministry said in a
statement published in the Communist Party newspaper Granma.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 17, 1997 Monday

WELFARE OVERHAUL;
CUTTING IMMIGRANTS' BENEFITS IS A BETRAYAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 377 words


Last year's federal welfare changes were marred by flaws that troubled even many
proponents of welfare change, including this editorial board. Overly harsh
budget cuts attached to the welfare revisions have nothing to do with moving
welfare recipients into jobs.

One of the least defensible cuts denies Supplemental Security Income benefits
and food stamps to elderly and disabled legal immigrants who have been in this
country for five years or longer. These are people who are residing in America
legally. In many cases, age or disability makes it unlikely they can become
proficient in English and achieve citizenship under current requirements.

Stripping even minimal support from needy people with so few options is a cruel
betrayal of America's heritage as a nation built by immigrants.

What's more, disabled and elderly immigrants aren't going anywhere. The costs of
meeting their minimum needs will fall on state and local governments. In certain
localities, such as Ramsey County (where nearly half Minnesota's affected
immigrants live), these shifted costs will be heavy.

Congress should restore at least some of the lost federal benefits for legal
immigrants. Meantime, Minnesota must be true to its own heritage of bipartisan
decency and partially cushion the blow of the federal changes.

Under the Carlson administration's welfare proposal, most elderly and disabled
immigrants who lose SSI benefits will become eligible for smaller cash benefits
through state-funded General Assistance. Families with children will generally
move into the new welfare-to-work transition program. A $3 million contingency
fund would be available to counties to ease the transition.

Each of the administration's provisions is prudent and needed. So, too, is DFL
state Sen. Linda Berglin's proposal to add a state-paid supplement of about $63
a month to replace food stamps for immigrants who will henceforth receive only
GA's $203 monthly benefit.

Combining Carlson's and Berglin's plans, a disabled or elderly immigrant would
typically see her monthly benefit fall from an average of $378 to about $266.
This is not exactly extravagant largess. Minnesota can afford the $2.5 million
annual cost of Berglin's proposal.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: What's more, disabled and elderly legal immigrants aren't going anywhere.
The costs of meeting their needs will fall on state and local governments.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 25, 1997 Tuesday

WELLSTONE VOWS FIGHT ON IMMIGRANTS' AID;
LEGAL NONCITIZENS FACE CUTS THIS YEAR

BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 610 words


Win or lose, U.S. Sen. Paul Wellstone said, he's going to fight to restore
eligibility for federal welfare benefits to noncitizen, legal immigrants.

The second-term Democrat said he needs Minnesotans to get behind him on the
issue. On Monday morning, he found them not only behind him, but ahead of him
and above him as well.

As many as 500 people, most of them Southeast Asian immigrants facing imminent
cuts, packed the State Capitol rotunda, cheering Wellstone and U.S. Rep. Bruce
Vento, D-St. Paul, who agrees with the senator on this issue.

Wellstone said he is seeking to overturn parts of the new federal law that make
legal immigrants ineligible for food stamps, Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
and Medicaid.

In Minnesota, about 15,900 noncitizen immigrants will have their food stamps
eliminated. An estimated 5,400 face cutoffs this summer in monthly SSI grants,
which average between $400 and $500.

Nationally, restoring the cuts would cost $23.7 billion. But Wellstone said it's
worth it. A large portion of the federal welfare savings, in fact, come from
cuts to noncitizens.

"It is an outrage that we are penalizing people who have legally immigrated to
the United States, who have paid their taxes and who have played by the rules,"
Wellstone said.

The chances for Wellstone and Vento are not good in Congress, but the changes
they seek are not out of the question. Though both are Democrats, the issue
doesn't split neatly along party lines. Some Republicans - including governors
from states with large immigrant populations - also want some federal cuts
restored.

Susan Irby, press secretary for U.S. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.,
said Monday that he is "not for reopening the welfare bill." But Irby said Lott
is interested in "transitional funding ... particularly for infirmed folks or
those who - mainly for reason of age or illness - have some difficulty meeting
citizenship requirements."

Many of the elderly or disabled noncitizens came to St. Paul on Monday, even
though some needed translators to understand much of what the speakers said.

The noncitizen Southeast Asian community will be hit heavily by the SSI loss.
The immigrants also are worried that the state's replacement welfare legislation
- which is making its way through the Minnesota Legislature - will not make up
entirely for the loss.

The SSI grants, some immigrants said, are their only source of income. KayYing
Lee said she can't live without them.

The Minneapolis woman said she relies entirely on a $487 monthly grant. Out of
that, she pays $131 for her federally subsidized apartment. Lee's husband, she
said, was killed in battle during the Vietnam War in Laos.

"I don't have any children. I live alone," Lee said through a translator. "I
will hang myself" if the income is cut off, she said.

Lee said she has not learned enough English to qualify for U.S. citizenship. And
she said she has not been in the nation long enough - only six years - to
qualify for current exemptions to the English-language requirements for
citizenship. Exemptions are granted to people 50 or older with 20 years of legal
residency, or people 55 or older with 15 years' residency.

Better information might help other poor Southeast Asian residents in restoring
their eligibility for benefits.

Shoua Vang of St. Paul, who is in her 60s, has been in America the United States
since 1980. That should make her eligible for a waiver - granted to older,
long-term U.S. residents - of the English-language requirements for U.S.
citizenship.

"Nobody told me," Vang said through a translator. "I don't know."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Mone, Associated Press
U.S. Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., greets people after addressing a
rally Monday at the Minnesota State Capitol, where he discussed his
proposed legislation to restore legal immigrants' federal welfare
benefits. Many people who attended the rally were from the Hmong and
Lao communities, which helped the United States during the Vietnam
War.

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 4, 1997 Sunday

COMMUNITY GROUPS HELP LEGAL IMMIGRANTS BRIDGE THE NEW WELFARE GAP

BYLINE: LYNDA McDONNELL, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1240 words


Each week, 30 to 40 sick and elderly immigrants call the office of Lao Family
Community of Minnesota, alarmed about letters from the federal government
informing them that their food, cash and medical benefits will end this summer.

"Everybody's very, very concerned," admits Ying Vang, executive director of the
St. Paul group. "They don't know how they are going to survive or turn to for
health after July." He, too, is worried: "This benefit is money. We have no
money here to give to people."

Since Minnesota's new welfare plan was signed into law last week, Vang has a
scrap of good news for worried noncitizens: Minnesota will replace some of the
aid the federal government will take away from more than 21,000 legal immigrants
in the state. Minnesota's welfare budget includes nearly $28 million for
additional food and cash benefits over the next two years. Millions more will be
spent for medical benefits and English-language classes.

But an anticipated gap of more than $30 million a year remains. Even as
immigrant groups worry over the hardship their countrymen will suffer, they are
busy collecting data, ideas, volunteers and money to repair holes opening in the
public safety net for immigrants.

At the Cinco de Mayo celebration in St. Paul this weekend, for example, forms
printed in Spanish and English will recruit volunteers to help Latino immigrants
manage without federal aid. In Minneapolis, a Jewish social service agency has
mailed Russian-language questionnaires to 1,300 immigrants asking for their
citizenship status, monthly federal benefits and help they will need when
federal aid ends.

"We need to actually see from these elderly immigrants who is scared, who is
vulnerable," said Jay Tcath of the Jewish Community Relations Council.

When the federal welfare overhaul bill passed last summer, public attention
focused largely on the end of Aid to Families with Dependent Children. Less
noticed was the law's huge effect on legal noncitizens. Roughly half the law's
expected savings will come from elimination of federal cash, food and medical
aid to immigrants.

Many immigrants have rushed to become citizens, thereby securing their benefits.
Under pressure from states with large immigrant populations, Congress is
considering extending help temporarily for people unable to pass the citizenship
test. Legal challenges are also mounting. This week, Minnesota lawyers are
expected to file a lawsuit challenging the federal cuts as a violation of the
Constitution's equal-protection clause. Similar lawsuits have already been filed
in New York, California and Florida.

But while Congress and the courts execute their slow work, dozens of immigrant
groups throughout Minnesota are toiling to find how they can ease the pain that
will follow food stamp cutoffs in July and elimination of Supplemental Security
Income in August.

In St. Paul, five groups that work with Hispanic immigrants have formed a joint
emergency task force - Latina Agencies United for Immigrants. The group hopes to
provide emergency food, job assistance and transitional housing, perhaps with
volunteer families "so no one goes homeless," says Barbara Clare, finance
director at Casa de Esperanza, a women's shelter and founding member of the task
force.

The task force will be recruiting volunteers at this weekend's Cinco de Mayo
celebration.

For many immigrant groups, their first task is to determine the size of the
need. "That's the frightening thing," Clare acknowledges. "We really don't have
a good handle on that yet."

Minnesota officials estimate that 4,500 elderly and disabled immigrants in the
state stand to lose both Supplemental Security Income and food stamps and that
16,000 will lose food stamps. Getting behind those numbers, to find the old
woman who will lose her apartment and the children who are going hungry, is a
much harder task.

By using clan leaders to gather information, Vang expects to identify about 100
Hmong elders without sufficient family support. "My concern is many of the
elders, they do not have grandson or niece or nephew to live with," he says.
"They live by themselves. If their benefits go from $487 to $203, how can they
survive?"

He hopes to pair needy seniors with churches or individuals willing to help. But
the public is more generous with food and clothing than with money, he has
found. "If you talk about money to the public, people hate that. They feel
government bring you here and government is responsible for lodging and food."

Jim Carlson Otero, director of external affairs for Chicano/Latinos Unidos En
Servicios in St. Paul, knows of 20 elders in his center's recreation program who
are unlikely ever to pass the citizenship test. "These folks are illiterate in
their own language," he says.

Such people will receive about $290 in state aid - to replace more than $500 a
month in federal benefits - each month. For many, he says, this will not be
enough for rent and food. Immigrant families with dependent children can qualify
for Minnesota's new welfare-to-work program. But the state left a four-month gap
between August, when federal food stamps to noncitizens end, and January, when a
one-year state food supplement for poor families begins.

"Long lines in the food shelves, that's my vision, and I can't shake it," Otero
says. With this spring's floods, he worries, "The food shelf system in Minnesota
is maxed out."

The Somali Community of Minnesota, a four-person advocacy group in Minneapolis,
focuses primarily on helping Somali immigrants get citizenship and jobs. Limited
knowledge of English is a decided handicap for many. With welfare changes
pushing more poor single parents into the labor market, job developer Jane
Strauss worries that the competition will grow even tougher.

She's been helping one man search for work since July: "Employers fear for his
safety because he doesn't speak English. They're concerned about liability if
his English isn't good enough to warn another employee or understand a warning."

Mohammed Essa, the group's executive director, is urging Minneapolis public
schools to offer more English-as-a-second-language classes for immigrant
parents. He particularly wants classes that teach the language of work - how to
interview, fill out forms. "They want to learn, to assimilate to this life," he
says. "But the employers are saying we must know English."

With a larger and more established community behind her, Judy Yellin,
resettlement coordinator at the Minneapolis Federation for Jewish Services, is
less strapped for resources. She is currently surveying 1,300 Russian Jewish
immigrants to learn what kind of emergency aid they will need.

As refugees, many Russian Jews will continue to receive benefits until they've
been here five years. Others can earn citizenship with help from classes and
volunteer lawyer-advocates her group sponsors. Her group helped 100 immigrants
earn citizenship last year.

But even with such resources, Yellin finds part of the process beyond her
control: Three- to six-month delays between citizenship tests and swearing-in
ceremonies at the Bloomington office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Until the swearing-in ceremony, one is not a citizen.

"It's creating tremendous hardship," Yellin complains. "Your benefits rely on
your becoming a citizen and there's this gap that's no fault of your own."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Reworking Welfare

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 7, 1997 Wednesday

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS FILE LAWSUIT OVER WELFARE

BYLINE: Steve Karnowski, Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 11D

LENGTH: 200 words


Faced with losing hundreds of dollars in monthly federal aid, disabled and
elderly legal immigrants filed a lawsuit Tuesday in Minneapolis to keep the
government from cutting them off.

Several immigrants involved in the class-action suit said they don't know how
they would survive without their Supplemental Security Income benefits, which
are usually around $425 per month.

Last year's federal welfare overhaul would have made legal, noncitizen
immigrants ineligible for SSI effective this August. The budget deal agreed on
by President Clinton and congressional leaders last week would restore benefits
for many of them.

Attorney James Moloney said they went forward with the federal lawsuit anyway
because of their uncertainty about the details of the budget deal, which still
requires congressional approval.

The suit asks for an injunction to prevent the government from imposing the
cutoff. It argues that terminating SSI benefits for legal immigrants would
violate the equal protection clause of the U.S. Constitution because elderly and
disabled citizens continue to be eligible. Moloney said the Supreme Court has
ruled that even noncitizens have constitutional rights.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 31, 1997 Thursday

BUDGET DEAL A VICTORY FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
NEEDY WILL RETAIN SOME BENEFITS LOST TO WELFARE CHANGES

BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 520 words


Maybe the lesson is this: Even poor legal immigrants, if they flex their
political muscles, can win in Congress.

After President Clinton and Congress cut welfare benefits to low-income
noncitizens last summer, a backlash quickly developed, led by diverse coalitions
of Hispanics, Asians and Europeans.

Loss of Supplemental Security Income grants and food stamps, they protested,
would devastate families. A few immigrants, including one Hmong man in Mauston,
Wis., even committed suicide after getting their SSI cutoff notices. Others
rushed to become U.S. citizens as a way to preserve their eligibility. Hot lines
sprang up in Minnesota and elsewhere.

Congress, it appears, listened and has partially backed off.

Under the new budget agreement, current SSI recipients will keep their grants.
The top amount is $484 each month. New immigrants, however, are not eligible for
SSI under the deal. Also, immigrants remain ineligible for food stamps.

Nonetheless, if the budget deal becomes law, it will be a winner for about
500,000 immigrants nationally who - in many cases - stood to lose all their
income.

"I think it's a done deal," said Helen Fitch, public affairs specialist with the
Social Security Administration in Chicago. "This is just my personal opinion.
But I think no one in Congress ever expected this to be such a vocal issue. They
didn't expect the backlash and couldn't live with it."

"No one has been cut off," Fitch said. "As soon as the president signs the
legislation, we'll be sending letters to all the people telling them they no
longer have to worry about this issue."

That's welcome news to Minnesota's immigrant community, led numerically by
Southeast Asians - about 50,000 of whom are Laotian Hmong refugees of the
Vietnam War and their families.

As many as 5,000 elderly immigrants in the state were facing loss of SSI
benefits. In Wisconsin, where a similar number of Hmong live, and elsewhere, the
budget agreement was also welcomed.

Lee Pao Xiong, executive director of the Council of Asian-Pacific Minnesotans,
said the SSI debate inspired new political awareness and activity in immigrant
communities. Xiong believes some members in Congress thought they were taking on
a weak constituency when they targeted older immigrants for cuts in the welfare
reform law that went into effect Aug. 22.

"Even though our grandparents can't vote, we can and we do," Xiong said. "And
there's more of us."

Col. Wangyee Vang, of Fresno, Calif., and his brother, Cherzong Vang, of St.
Paul, led opposition to SSI cuts within the Hmong-American community. The Vangs
head the Lao Veterans of America Inc., and have Philip Smith as their Washington
representative.

"This is a major victory for the Hmong and Lao veterans and their entire
community across the United States that rallied behind this vital cause,"
Wangyee Vang said.

Deborah Huskins, an assistant commissioner with the Minnesota Department of
Human Services, said: "A lot of people felt strongly Congress had gone too far
with respect to certain categories of people. ... This is good news for
Minnesota."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 21, 1997 Thursday

FOOD STAMP BILL COULDN'T SQUEAK BY;
PROPOSAL WOULD HAVE RESTORED SOME LOST BENEFITS TO LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MARIA DOUGLAS REEVE, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 424 words


A bill to restore food stamps to 10,000 legal immigrants whose benefits were cut
by federal welfare changes was scuttled Tuesday by politics in the House of
Representatives.

As of Sept. 1, legal immigrants with children will lose federal food stamp
benefits. But they will continue to receive 60 percent of the grant - averaging
about $37 per person - because of a state law passed during the regular session.

Recent changes by the federal government made about $20 million available to the
state, and legislators wanted to return to immigrants 100 percent of their food
stamp benefits. The bill would have provided $2.5 million to replace the food
stamps benefits through June 1998.

The Senate unanimously approved the bill. But House Republicans refused to
suspend the rules to allow a vote on the bill, after a wrenching fight over a
minimum-wage increase and salary raises for department heads, judges and
legislators.

Rep. Fran Bradley, R-Rochester, said he didn't think the issue was urgent enough
to warrant suspending the rules to vote on it.

"We are talking about able-bodied people," he said, who will still receive a
portion of the benefit.

Bradley said he would like the Legislature to hold hearings on the issue to
explore the implications of replacing the food stamps.

Sen. Linda Berglin, DFL-Minneapolis, an author of the bill, suggested that it be
brought up in the next proposed special session. Slated for September, lawmakers
expect to consider funding for a new stadium for the Minnesota Twins.

"It just was not the day to do it, between people being missing and having ...
to wring the votes out that they did," Berglin said. "I just thought that after
they passed the bill to raise pay they would not begrudge people who have been
sent here and don't speak English a bag of groceries."

Making the change after Sept. 1 may cause some difficulties for counties that
would have to figure out how to reduce benefits, then reinstate them.

Many immigrants, however, are confused already about what will happen.

Laura Melnick, a staff attorney with Southern Minnesota Regional Legal Services,
said that for many clients, it still hasn't sunk in that they are losing their
benefits.

"A lot of folks don't fully understand what's going on," Melnick said. "I'm
troubled. I think what's going to happen is, people are going to get notices and
start panicking that their benefits will end. I hope the counties will let them
know they will be eligible for the partial replacement benefits."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 7, 1998 Saturday

BENEFIT BILLS CLEAR PANEL

SECTION: METRO; Capitol Briefing; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 187 words


The Senate Health and Family Security Committee passed two related bills Friday
that would provide food benefits for legal immigrants.

Both bills now move to the budget division of the committee for consideration.

The first bill, sponsored by Sen. Don Samuelson, DFL-Brainerd, would extend food
benefits for legal immigrants for one year and delay for one year the policy
that would take $100 from welfare families who live in subsidized housing. The
bill would provide $20 million from a welfare reserve account for social
services and for employment and training costs.

The second bill, sponsored by Sen. Linda Berglin, DFL-Minneapolis, would create
the Minnesota Food Assistance program for all legal immigrants who meet federal
food stamp eligibility requirements but do not receive welfare benefits. This
would continue indefinitely and does not require the immigrant to have been a
resident before July 1, 1997, to be eligible. The bill also requires the
commissioner of the Human Services Department to purchase federal food stamp
benefits from the federal government for these recipients.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 27, 1998 Friday

CLINTON BACKS FOOD STAMP PLAN

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration signaled support Thursday for Republican legislation
that would restore food stamp benefits to about 250,000 legal immigrants cut off
by the 1996 welfare overhaul law. That represents just 34 percent of the 730,000
immigrants President Clinton sought benefits for. But Agriculture Secretary Dan
Glickman said the GOP effort "would go a long way toward enacting the
president's proposal" and he will recommend the measure be signed into law. The
legislation must pass both chambers to get to the president.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 7, 2000 Friday

INS RULING PROTESTED IN MIAMI;
CUBAN EXILES ANGERED BY PLAN TO RETURN BOY TO DAD

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Hundreds of Cuban-Americans blocked intersections and cut off access to the Port
of Miami on Thursday to protest the U.S. government's decision to return
6-year-old Elian Gonzalez to his father in Cuba.

Police arrested about 100 people, including two prominent Cuban exile leaders,
for refusing to disperse.

Roaming groups of protesters disrupted traffic on major streets during evening
rush hour, angering drivers.

A motorist plowed through a group of protesters blocking an intersection near
Miami International Airport, knocking a man and a woman to the ground. Their
conditions were not immediately known. One police officer working crowd control
suffered broken bones when he was hit by a motorist trying to get home.

The tension was expected to continue today. Brothers to the Rescue, a
Miami-based exile group that searches the waters off Florida for Cubans trying
to make it to the United States, called for supporters to drive 15 mph Friday
throughout Miami-Dade County.

In Washington, Attorney General Janet Reno essentially ruled out any chance she
will reverse Wednesday's decision by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to send the boy back to the communist island.

Reno said she had consulted with INS Commissioner Doris Meissner and agreed with
the decision. "Based on all the information we have to date, I see no basis for
reversing," Reno said.

The INS said the boy must be returned to Cuba by Jan. 14.

Gov. Jeb Bush wrote to President Clinton on Thursday seeking a reversal of the
INS decision.

For the past six weeks, Elian has been the subject of protests in Florida and
Cuba - and in the middle of an international debate over where he belongs. Fidel
Castro kept up the pressure with another government-orchestrated demonstration
Thursday in Havana.

The boy was found Thanksgiving Day clinging to an inner tube at sea after his
mother, stepfather and eight other people drowned while trying to reach Florida
by boat. He has been living in Miami with his paternal great-uncle and
great-aunt.

Lawyers for the boy's American relatives asked Reno to reverse the decision and
said they will announce their plans for legal action today.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Diaz, Associated Press
Elian Gonzalez rides on the shoulders of his great uncle Delfin
Gonzalez as he returns to Gonzalez's home in the Little Havana
neighborhood of Miami Thursday.
Photo: Marta Levandier, Associated Press
Demonstrators block traffic in downtown Miami Thursday as they protest
the INS decision to return 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez to his father in
Cuba.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 29, 2000 Saturday

MEETING HOST TAKES SIDES, WANTS ELIAN TO STAY;
NUN ABANDONS 'NEUTRAL' STANCE

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Florida nun selected by Attorney Gen. Janet Reno as a neutral party in the
custody battle over Elian Gonzalez sought unsuccessfully on Friday to persuade
Reno to change her mind about returning the 6-year-old to Cuba. Sister Jeanne
O'Laughlin also backed legislation to make Elian an American citizen.

Conceding "I am no longer neutral," O'Laughlin told reporters she has come to
believe that separating Elian now from his Florida relatives would be "another
traumatic loss for him" after the death of his mother at sea in November.

Her abandonment of impartiality was denounced by those seeking Elian's return to
his father.

O'Laughlin, the Barry University president whose Miami Beach home was used
earlier in the week for a meeting between Elian and his Cuban grandmothers, said
she now thinks it is in the boy's best interest to stay in this country, at
least temporarily.

But Reno, a longtime friend, did not back away from her support of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's ruling that the boy be returned to his
father.

"She would only change her mind, I believe, if she could find legal reasons to
change her mind and have adequate evidence that that would be necessary,"
O'Laughlin said outside the Justice Department.

The INS ruling has not been carried out because the federal government agreed to
postpone action until the family had an opportunity to challenge it in court,
which Elian's Florida relatives have done, filing a lawsuit in Miami.

At a hearing Friday in Miami, U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler said he would
hear arguments on Feb. 22 on whether the lawsuit should be dismissed.

Before meeting with Reno, O'Laughlin visited Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., chief
sponsor of the citizenship bill, and announced her support for it.

Her support for the legislation came as it appeared to be losing ground in
Congress. Elian's grandmothers made the rounds of Capitol Hill this week urging
the boy's return to Cuba.

The grandmothers might return to Cuba this weekend, said the Rev. Joan Brown
Campbell of the National Council of Churches, which has facilitated their travel
and supports the boy's return to Cuba.

In a statement Friday, the council said it was "surprised" that O'Laughlin
"chose to step out of her assigned role of neutrality."

"We regret that Sister Jeanne, in choosing to state her opinion after exercising
the role of neutral host so admirably, has in her action further fueled the fire
of controversy and eliminated herself as a neutral facilitator in any future
discussions on this matter," the council said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 8, 2000 Saturday

BUSH COURTS HISPANIC VOTE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


George W. Bush repudiated the immigration policies of former Gov. Pete Wilson
Friday, telling Spanish-speaking women he understands why poor Mexicans want to
move here. Courting the Hispanic vote in California, the presumptive GOP
presidential nominee spoke in Spanish occasionally as he addressed a crowd of
hundreds of women. Wilson battled against affirmative action, bilingual
education and illegal immigration during his years as California governor, from
1991 to 1999. Those fights alienated many Hispanic voters, who constitute nearly
15 percent of the state's voters.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 23, 2000 Sunday

TIMELINE

BYLINE: From Associated Press and Cox News Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 647 words


1999

Nov. 22: Elian and 13 others leave Cuba for United States aboard 16-foot motor
boat.

Nov. 23: Boat capsizes.

Nov. 25: Two passengers come ashore; Elian rescued at sea.

Nov. 26: Elian leaves hospital; released to great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez.

Nov. 27: Juan Miguel Gonzalez demands son's return to Cuba.

Dec. 10: Lazaro Gonzalez applies for asylum for Elian.

Dec. 31: INS interviews Juan Miguel Gonzalez in Havana.

2000

Jan. 5: INS Commissioner Doris Meissner decides Elian "belongs with his father"
and must be returned to Cuba by Jan. 14. Attorneys for Florida relatives ask
Attorney General Janet Reno to reconsider.

Jan. 7: Lazaro Gonzalez files petition for temporary custody in state court.

Jan. 12: Reno upholds father's right to custody of Elian.

Jan. 19: Lazaro Gonzalez files federal lawsuit to challenge INS ruling.

Jan. 21: Elian's grandmothers arrive in New York from Cuba.

Jan. 26: Grandmothers meet with Elian in Miami.

Jan. 28: U.S. lawyers seek dismissal of relatives' federal lawsuit.

March 21: U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore dismisses lawsuit, a ruling
appealed to federal appeals court in Atlanta.

April 3: State Department approves visas for Elian's father and others.

April 6: Juan Miguel Gonzalez leaves Cuba for United States.

April 12: Reno meets with boy's relatives; orders them to surrender boy.

April 13: Relatives defy the order; obtain court order that keeps boy in United
States. Miami family court judge rules she has no jurisdiction on custody.

April 19: Federal appeals court extends court order until hearing in May.

April 22: Federal agents seize Elian in Miami; Elian reunited with father.

Final hours (all times EDT)

4:45 p.m. Friday: Reno confers with President Clinton on the latest chapter in
the talks with Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, about handing over the boy.
The Miami family has faxed a final offer, which demands that the father come to
the Miami area and stay there indefinitely. That plan is rejected. Reno tells
Clinton she is continuing to talk with intermediaries, including Miami attorney
Aaron Podhurst.

2:15 a.m. Saturday: White House chief of staff John Podesta calls Clinton with a
somewhat hopeful report that both sides were continuing to try to work out a
voluntary transfer of custody. But Podesta says that if talks break down, Reno
is prepared to send in her SWAT team. Clinton approves the approach.

4 a.m. Saturday: After seeing the talks go nowhere, Reno tells the Miami
household that time has run out. She gives the go-ahead for the law enforcement
team.

5:15 a.m. Saturday: Arrayed in combat gear with black helmets, visors and
automatic rifles, eight INS agents pry open the door, burst into the Gonzalez
house and find Elian inside a closet in the arms of Donato Dalrymple, one of the
fishermen who rescued him off the Florida coast. Elian is rushed into a waiting
unmarked white van.

5:18 a.m. Saturday: The agents are out of the house and clearing the way with
pepper gas to allow Elian's motorcade to drive away from the startled gathering
of protesters. Elian is driven to Watson Island and flown by helicopter to
Homestead Air Force Base, where he receives a brief physical and is pronounced
unharmed.

6 a.m. Saturday: Reno telephones Clinton to inform him of the action and he
expresses "satisfaction over the manner in which it had been carried out,"
according to Reno.

9:20 a.m. Saturday: Elian's plane arrives at Andrews Air Force base, where he is
reunited with his dad, his stepmother and his infant half-brother.

1:20 p.m. Saturday: Juan Miguel Gonzalez' lawyer Greg Craig releases photos
showing a happy reunion of Elian at Andrews Air Force Base, where the family is
expected to stay one or two nights before moving to an undisclosed place in the
Washington area to await the final court rulings on his case.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 25, 2000 Thursday

QUESTIONS REMAIN ABOUT SINKING OF ELIAN'S BOAT

BYLINE: KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 332 words


A doctor who examined Elian Gonzalez shortly after he was rescued Thanksgiving
Day told immigration authorities the boy probably had been in the water less
than 24 hours, newly released U.S. Coast Guard records show.

The records, and interviews based on them, also cast doubt on the commonly told
story of how the two adult survivors of the rafter tragedy came ashore.

A man listed in the documents as a witness told the Miami Herald on Tuesday that
he found Arianne Horta and Nivaldo Fernandez several miles out to sea and
brought them to Crandon Park Marina so they would not be returned to Cuba.

The two survivors have insisted that they swam to shore by themselves, a story
Horta repeated again this week.

The records, released in response to a request filed under the federal Freedom
of Information Act, are unlikely to change the basic legal issues in the court
battle about whether Elian Gonzalez is entitled to a political asylum hearing.

But they show that six months after Elian was plucked from the sea there is
still much that is not known for sure about the sinking of the boat that carried
Elian, his mother and 12 other people.

According to the most oft-repeated version of the events, the boat in which
Elian, his mother, Horta, 22, and her boyfriend, Fernandez, 33, were traveling
capsized late at night Nov. 22. That would mean that the survivors spent more
than 50 hours in the water before being rescued on the morning of Nov. 25.

"Many times, the information in the logs is hearsay," said a Coast Guard
spokeswoman who asked that her name not be published.

Meanwhile, Elian and his family and Cuban visitors are expected to move from
their secluded Maryland retreat to an estate in the nation's capital, an
American supporter said Wednesday.

The family needs a change of scenery and a more convenient location, said the
Rev. Joan Brown Campbell of the National Council of Churches.

This report includes information from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 September 20, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

RECRUITMENT OF FOREIGN WORKERS CONTRIBUTES TO U.S. JOB SQUEEZE

BYLINE: BYLINE: Donald L. Barlett and James B. Steele, Knight-Ridder News
Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2273 words


Help wanted:

Auto mechanic for a service station in Alexandria, Va.; pays $17.57 an hour.
Accountant for an investment firm in Wilmington; pays $40,000 a year. Carpet
layer for a rug company in Laurel, Md., $16.40 an hour. Pharmacist for a
drugstore in Huntington, W.Va.; pays $55,000. Software engineer for a phone
company in Murray Hill, N.J.; pays $45,700. Manager of a savings and loan in
York, Pa.; pays $25,000.

Don't feel especially qualified for any of those openings? Well, then, how about
one of these:

Supervisor for a cab company in Philadelphia; pays $21,000. Cook at a pizza shop
in Wayne, Pa.; pays $10.71 an hour. Management trainee at a hotel in Arlington,
Va.; pays $22,685. Programmer analyst at a pharmaceutical firm, Collegeville,
Pa.; pays $37,000. Household worker in a private home, Wallingford, Pa.; $9.20
an hour.

Any of those jobs appeal to you?

Do you think someone, somewhere in America is capable of handling one of them?

The U.S. government doesn't think so.

It approved applications filed by businesses so they could hire foreign workers
to fill those and other jobs. The businesses claimed - and the government agreed
- that no qualified Americans could be found where the jobs were located.

At a time when countless Americans have lost their jobs due to imports and
corporate layoffs, U.S. companies have been recruiting tens of thousands of
workers from around the world. All with the blessing of Congress.

As a result, too many workers are chasing too few good jobs. This, in turn, has
helped force down wages in many fields, held increases to a minimum in others,
and contributed to the overall decline in the standard of living for many
middle-class families.

The recruiting of foreign workers even goes beyond businesses. Individuals -
largely the affluent - also bring in foreign nationals to perform household and
child-care tasks that they say no American is willing to do for the wages
offered.

In each case, the businesses or individuals have filed applications with the
U.S. Labor Department saying they need to hire foreign workers because "there
are not sufficient U.S. workers who are able, willing, qualified and available
at the place where the alien is to perform the skilled or unskilled labor."

The Labor Department is required - by law - essentially to rubber-stamp the
applications if the paperwork is in order and several general requirements have
been fulfilled.

With the labor certification in hand, the foreign national can file a petition
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service for permanent residency, and
eventual citizenship. So far in the 1990s, more than 90 percent of such
petitions have been approved.

Who are some of these businesses and individuals, and what are the jobs they
said they couldn't find qualified Americans to do?

Here's a sampling from Labor Department records for 1995:

Salon Cristophe in Washington, D.C., whose owner, Cristophe Schatteman, has
styled the hair of first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Clinton. You
may recall, it was Cristophe who cut Clinton's hair while Air Force One sat on a
runway at Los Angeles International Airport in May 1993. Cristophe received
permission in March 1995 to employ a foreign worker as a hair stylist. Pay:
$5.25 an hour.

American Red Cross of Rockville, Md., headed by Elizabeth Dole, wife of
Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole. She is now on leave, campaigning
with her husband. In July 1995, while she was Red Cross president, the Red Cross
received permission to hire a foreign national to work as a biologist. Pay:
$14.90 an hour.

Perot Systems Corp. of Reston, Va., the computer consulting company started in
1988 by Ross Perot, the Reform Party presidential candidate. Perot and his son,
Ross Perot Jr., are on the board of directors; Perot Sr. has had no day-to-day
role in the management of the company since June 1992, when he first sought the
presidency, the company says. Perot Systems received permission in October 1995
to hire a foreign worker as a systems analyst. Pay: $53,000.

Angela "Bay" Buchanan of Oakton, Va., sister of erstwhile Republican
presidential candidate Pat Buchanan. She received permission in December 1995 to
hire a foreign worker to be a tutor for her children. Pay: $13.54 an hour.

Richard Ben-Veniste, a Washington lawyer who was a member of the Watergate
prosecution team that forced President Richard Nixon from office. He also was
the Democratic counsel on the Senate Whitewater Committee that investigated
Clinton's role in real estate and banking deals in Arkansas. Ben-Veniste
received permission in December 1995 to hire a foreign national as a house
worker. Pay: $9.11 an hour.

The Permanent Labor Certification Program under which these foreign workers were
employed is one of several government programs that keep a supply of foreign
labor moving into the United States.

From 1990 through 1995:

Nearly 600,000 foreign workers were admitted under the Permanent Labor
Certification Program. They filled jobs ranging from fast-food cooks to store
managers, from bookkeepers to computer systems analysts. All were immigrants
entitled to become U.S. citizens.

More than 225,000 visas were granted to foreign workers to fill so-called
specialty occupations under the H-1B program. These jobs ranged from restaurant
manager to financial analyst, from piano teacher to assistant professor. The
workers were limited to a maximum stay of six years. Many stayed permanently.

About 1.1 million visas were issued to foreign workers to fill short-term
positions in such fields as computer software engineering. They are aliens -
citizens of another country - and by law are allowed to remain here only six
months, working for foreign companies. Many stayed permanently.

Nearly 35,000 visas were issued to foreign registered nurses. This at a time
when nurses in the United States are having trouble finding permanent jobs, as
hospitals trim their staffs under managed care.

More than 1 million visas were issued to foreign students. While many completed
their education and returned home, others stayed and went to work here.

The foreign-worker programs are just one small part of the story of the impact
of immigration - and the globalization of work - on American jobs.

The bigger picture is this: Legal immigrants are entering the United States in
the 1990s at an annual rate higher than in any decade in American history - in
even greater numbers than those who washed over Ellis Island at the turn of the
century.

And that's "legal" immigration - it has nothing to do with the tens of thousands
of people who cross the borders illegally every year.

What all these numbers - permanent immigrants and alien workers here under jobs
programs - add up to is this:

Since 1990, at least 6 million foreign workers have been thrown into the
competition for U.S. jobs. That includes immigrants who applied for entry on
their own, without the help of any of these special federal programs.

Thanks to a combination of U.S. government policies - the world's most generous
immigration rules and the world's most open-ended trade policies - the people in
Washington have created a huge labor surplus.

It has been good for corporations and Wall Street - and bad for working
Americans.

This is not to suggest that the United States should close its borders, or that
by halting immigration the living standard of middle-class America would improve
dramatically overnight. It does suggest that what is lacking in Washington is
moderation - a balance between the nation's historic tolerance of newcomers and
the need to protect the interests of its own citizens.

Many of the jobs for which foreigners were recruited are in technical fields -
part of that high-tech future that was supposed to provide good jobs for
Americans in the post-industrial economy. But a lot of them aren't high-tech at
all.

Let's look at a few of the businesses that are hiring foreign workers because
there are no "able, willing, qualified and available" Americans.

Denny's Restaurant in Fairfax Va., filed an application with the Labor
Department in August 1994 to hire a foreign worker as a manager. The
restaurant's human resource manager described the job requirements this way:

"Monitor daily operations to ensure that expenses are within budget. Account for
cash flow and make bank deposits. Order food supplies and establish food costs.
Inventory. Hire and fire personnel. Conduct personnel review, employee work
schedules. Responsible for local advertising and business strategy." The job
paid $26,600 a year.

Denny's said help-wanted ads were run regularly in the Washington Post or the
Washington Times, and "the last advertisement produced three applicants who were
not hired due to lack of qualified experience in restaurant management."

The Labor Department authorized Denny's in April 1995 to hire a citizen of
Pakistan for the job.

The Monocle Restaurant in Washington, D.C., is a Capitol Hill hangout for
lawmakers and lobbyists. It is in a building owned by Congress. In October 1995,
the Labor Department authorized the restaurant to hire two foreign workers as
cooks for $8.46 an hour. Assuming a 40-hour week, that's $17,600 a year.

The U.S. Congress' Office of Technology Assessment received approval to employ a
foreign worker as a project director for $47,039.

United States Service Industries of Washington, D.C., a janitorial and building
maintenance firm that cleans office and commercial buildings in and around the
nation's capital, received approval to employ 21 foreign workers as janitorial
cleaners and supervisors. Wages ranged from $5.40 to $6.96 an hour, or $11,200
to $14,500 a year. A U.S. Appeals Court ruled in 1996 that the company had
failed to pay some of its workers the required overtime.

Coopers & Lybrand of Philadelphia, the accounting firm, received authorization
to employ a foreign worker as a systems analyst for $100,000.

Steptoe & Johnson of Washington, D.C., a law firm, received permission to hire a
foreign lawyer for $77,000.

In addition to the businesses and organizations that received permission from
the Labor Department to hire foreign nationals, hundreds of individuals also
sought and received authorizations to fill a variety of jobs - house worker,
child monitor, butler, tutor and horse trainer, among others.

Again, this was under the Permanent Labor Certification Program which, at least
in theory, says that a prospective employer must test the labor market for the
availability of U.S. workers at the time the foreign worker seeks a visa.

In reality, the foreign nationals usually are in the United States on another
type of visa when they seek employment.

When an employer seeks to hire a foreign worker under the Permanent Labor
Certification Program, the U.S. Labor Department and the state Employment
Security Agency where the job is located are required to test the local labor
market to make certain there are no Americans "able, willing, qualified and
available" to fill the job.

The state employment agencies are supposed to refer qualified applicants to the
employer, who also is required to advertise the job opening for three
consecutive days. If local applicants are rejected, the employer must give the
state a job-related reason.

And most are rejected. Why?

Here's the blunt answer from the inspector general's office of the U.S. Labor
Department in a May 1996 report following its audit:

The program is being "manipulated and abused. For the most part, employers use
the program to obtain permanent resident visas for aliens who already work for
them, some illegally. Others use the program to obtain the green card for
friends or relatives for jobs that may or may not actually exist."

Furthermore, the inspector general's investigators determined that "the required
labor market test is ineffective in ensuring that qualified, willing and
available U.S. workers are given a fair opportunity to compete for the jobs for
which aliens are hired."

Based on their survey, the investigators concluded that 136,400 Americans
applied for jobs in three-fourths of the 23,400 cases requiring a labor market
test. Of that number, only 104 were hired.

That worked out to a hire rate of eight-hundredths of 1 percent.

In the other one-fourth of the cases, the employers received no local applicants
from the advertisements, no referrals from the state employment agencies.

That's because, as the investigators learned, state employment personnel "are
reluctant to waste their own and the applicants' time on referrals for job
interviews when they know there is no real job opening." The employer is just
going through the motions; the job is reserved for an alien.

To discourage American applicants, "employers bury advertisements in the
smallest available print, mislabel the jobs being advertised, and fill
advertisements with baffling abbreviations making the job requirements unclear,"
the audit found.

In short, the labor market test is a sham.

Of the "immigrants" hired under this program, 99 percent already were in the
United States at the time of the application and 74 percent already were working
for the petitioning employer.

The system, the inspector general concluded, "is being used to determine which
(foreign) students or temporary workers will be allowed to remain in, rather
than enter, the United States."

Saturday: American jobs go overseas, with the push of a button.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: America: Who Stole the Dream?

NOTES: This is the sixth in a 10-part series.
PioneerPlanet subscribers can access the full series by visiting our Web site
at: http:: www.pioneerplanet.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Billy Clazada, Knight-Ridder Tribune
At the U.S. consulate in Juarez, Mexico, Mexican citizens await their turn to
apply to enter the United States legally.
Graphic: Bill March, Knight-Ridder Tribune
Immigration at an all-time high
From 1990 through 1995, immigration averaged more than 1.1 million a year
[Complete graphic available on microfilm.]

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 23, 1998 Monday
                              Correction Appended

GLOBAL RECRUITING;
SOFTWARE SKILLS SERVE AS WORLD PASSPORTS FOR PROGRAMMERS AS COMPANIES TRY TO WOO
THEM.

BYLINE: Martin J. Moylan, Staff Writer

SECTION: TECH; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1549 words


Allan Larson knows where to go to scoop up some of those computer programmers
that businesses say are in such short supply these days.

Not India, Canada, the Philippines, Ireland, Russia, South Africa or the other
usual destinations. They're too heavily trafficked by rival recruiters, says
Larson, recruiting manager for the Twin Cities office of Keane Inc. a computer
consulting firm.

"I go to Cobolostan," he jokes, refusing to reveal where he's prospecting for
programmers. "I look in places where others are not going. But word travels fast
once you bring someone on board."

U.S. companies, claiming they face a growing shortage of computer programmers
and other information technology professionals, are increasingly looking to
foreigners to fill jobs.

In 1995, the most recent year for which data are available, U.S. companies hired
13,900 foreign mathematicians and computer scientists under a program (H-1B)
that lets noncitizens work in the United States for up to six years. Back in
1990, 3,100 foreigners were admitted under the program.

U.S. employers, led by the Information Technology Association of America, are
lobbying Congress to bring in more foreign IT professionals. They've run up
against the 65,000 annual limit on H-1B visas, which are distributed to a wide
range of professionals.

In the past two years, Minnesota employers have hired about 930 foreign
programmers and analysts under the H-1B temporary work visa program.

Thirty-five foreign nationals were among the 179 University of Minnesota
students receiving undergraduate or graduate degrees in computer science during
the 1996-97 school year. And most prospective employers courted them.

"Seventy, 80 percent of the companies looking for people asked to interview
them," says Sharon Kurtt, director of career services for the university's
Institute of Technology. "Microsoft, IBM, Cargill, Pillsbury, General Mills and
just about anyone who's anybody in the Twin Cities wanted to talk to them."

Before hiring foreign workers, employers have to prove they can't find Americans
to the jobs, says Med Chottepanda, chief work force economist for the Minnesota
Economic Security Department.

Then there's the pay issue.

Some have charged U.S. companies try to hire foreign computing professionals at
bargain rates. But they are barred by federal law from doing that, says Tim
Smith, recruiting manager for the Twin Cities office of Analysts International.

"There are wage guidelines," he says. "You can't bring in someone from a foreign
country and pay them pennies. You have to pay them wages comparable to what a
U.S. worker would make."

In the last year or so, Smith's office has hired about 20 Canadian programmers.
But he believes that market is about tapped out.

In a recent sojourn to the Philippines, he made four job offers. And he says he
intends to make 20 more. In the Philippines, he found an abundance of COBOL
programmers.

They're pricey and hard to lure to the United States.

Some COBOL programmers here are passing up full-time jobs to work on their own,
charging $45 to $55 an hour, he says.

Still, hiring noncitizens isn't that easy. It takes time and money.

Getting visas for foreign workers can be an arduous process, says Smith.

"We had to meet with people from the U.S. Embassy and convince them we were a
viable entity in the U.S.," he says. "They deal with a lot of fraud in the
Philippines and wanted to make sure we were on the up and up."

He expects it will take three to five months to get visas for any workers hired
from the Philippines.

Instead of bringing programmers to work here, some companies are sending work to
programmers in other countries.

"They just pass the work back and forth electronically so they can get a 24-hour
operation going around the globe," says Minnesota Software Association president
Byron Zuidema.

Lots of companies are sending projects to India, Ireland, Bermuda and other
spots where they find a good supply of programmers, says Rajiv Tandon, president
of St. Louis Park-based Institute for Advanced Technology, which develops
multimedia training programs.

"I can't imagine any company of any size in the Twin Cities that isn't either
sending work overseas, bringing (foreign) workers in or giving programming work
to someone else who is doing the same thing," says Tandon. "A company may not do
it directly but it can give work to another company that does."

Tandon's firm, which produces interactive training programs has about 45 U.S.
employees, mostly in St. Louis Park, and a like number in India. They hand off
assignments to each other as their workdays end, speeding up program
development.

"It's not just an issue of sending work overseas, though." he says. "There are
lots of pockets in the U.S. where there are well-educated 'trapped spouses' who
can't find (computing) jobs where they are."

Tandon has five such IT professionals working for him in northern Minnesota and
might quadruple that number soon.

Bloomington-based Fourth Shift has also sent work off-shore, specifically to
China, and brought foreign workers to the United States to work on its software,
which helps run manufacturing plants by tracking raw materials, finished
products, financials, shipping and other key elements.

At any given time, 10 to 20 percent of Fourth Shift's 60 or so software
developers in the United States are foreigners.

When Fourth Shift used Chinese programmers in the late 1980s and early 1990s, it
was as able to work on its MSS (Manufacturing Software System) products around
the clock, tossing work back and forth between the United States and China.

"Given that Fourth Shift software is helping run more than 3,000 manufacturing
plants in over 60 countries and is translated into a dozen languages,
international workers are essential for us to be a global software leader," says
Albert Maruggi, director of corporate communications.

Laarni Dy's computer skills helped unite her with family in the United States.

From the Philippines, she's a systems analyst specializing in Informix. While
she was visiting relatives in Minnesota last spring, her brother-in-law
suggested she try to find a job here.

"I wasn't planning on looking for a job," she says. "But he told me there was a
shortage of programmers. I had three interviews with SRM (Shared Resource
Management of St. Paul), and they offered me a job two days before the deadline
for enrolling my daughters in school back home."

But it took her about five months to get a work visa - and visas for her
daughters, ages 7 and 9. After she started working last fall, her husband,
Rodolfo, an officer on tanker ships, got a dependent visa to enter the country.

Mark Chu, a Taiwanese citizen, has been working as a computer professional for
10 years in the United States. And he's never felt so wanted.

"I'm constantly getting calls from different headhunters, companies and
consulting firms," he says. "My voicemail at home is full of messages from them.
But I'm happy and not looking for a change."

After receiving master's degrees from Northwestern and DePaul Universities in
the early 1990s, he worked as a programmer for Pace Inc., a Twin Cities
environmental testing lab.

In 1993, he joined St. Paul-based Shared Resource Management, which provides
computer professionals to other companies. Chu is now working on a project at
the Minnesota Board of Medical Practice.

The job market for programmers in Taiwan is pretty good, Chu says.

The average salary in the United States for a starting programmer is about
$35,000. In Taiwan, it's about $20,000.

But back home he suspects he wouldn't get to work with as sophisticated
computers and other technology. And he believes his daughter would get a better
education in the United States.

Software skills are a passport for world travel, says Paddy Iyer, a citizen of
India working for Fourth Shift.

So far, his skills in Oracle, Unix and C computer languages have taken him from
India to Bahrain to the United States.

He joined Fourth Shift in 1993.

"I was looking for a change of scenery and I wanted to go to the U.K., Australia
or the U.S.," he recalls. "The U.S. came up and I said, 'Why not? I want to
travel the world."'

When he started out in the industry, he never thought his computer skills would
be his ticket to travel. That changed as the software business boomed worldwide.

"The software industry was a passport to go where you wanted to - and it still
it," he says.

For globe-trotting programmers, the pay is probably best now in Saudi Arabia.
"You earn gobs of money and have no expenses," Iyer says.

Meanwhile, back home in India, programmers' salaries are skyrocketing.

"In the last two years, a lot of my friends have moved back to India," he says.
"The money is too good, and they want to bring their kids up in India."

In the past six years, he estimates salaries in India have increased
twelve-fold.

Some day, he'll go back to India. But he'd like to make a few stops along the
way, especially to indulge his passion for mountain climbing.

"I'm not sure India will be the next country," he says. "I'd like to keep
traveling. There are mountains all over the place - and the software industry,
too. "

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 1998

CORRECTION: March 1, 1998
A story in Monday's Pioneer Press misstated some employment dates for computer
programmer Mark Chu. He has been working a computing professional for about five
years in the United States, joining Pace Inc., a Twin Cities environmental
testing lab in 1993 and SRM in 1996.

GRAPHIC: 2 Graphics
1)Coming from all over
2) Trends in IT immigration and education
[Complete graphics available on microfilm.]
Photo: Chris Polydoroff, Pioneer Press
Mark Chu, a Taiwanese citizen, has been working as a computer
professional for 10 years in the United States. And he's never felt so
wanted, with headhunters, companies and consulting firms constantly
wooing him.

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              April 3, 1998 Friday

VISAS FOR SKILLED WORKERS OK'D

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A measure that would significantly boost the number of visas available for
high-skilled foreign workers is moving swiftly through the Senate. On a 12-6
vote Thursday, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved legislation introduced
just weeks ago in response to computer and technology industry complaints that
the current visa quota will be hit as early as May, four months before the end
of the fiscal year. The bill would raise the visa ceiling from the current
65,000 annual limit to a maximum 115,000 for each of the next five years.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 13, 1998 Monday

TOO MANY JOBS?;
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EXECUTIVES ARE FALSIFYING A CRISIS TO GET LABOR VISA
LIMITS LOOSENED - SO THEY CAN PASS OVER AMERICANS TO HIRE FOREIGNERS WHO ARE
YOUNGER, CHEAPER AND MORE FLEXIBLE.

BYLINE: Robert A. Rivers, Commentator

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: ORANGE, MASS.


The rapid expansion of information technology and the demand for workers it has
created have been converted into a false crisis by the industry's trade group,
Information Technology Association of America.

In late February 1997, ITAA President Harris Miller held a Washington news
conference to release a study of the information technology industry conducted
by Stuart Anderson of the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank based in
Washington.

The principal finding was that there were 190,000 job vacancies. The ITAA
immediately labeled the vacancies as worker "shortages."

But even the ITAA's statistical consultant advised of the potential bias due to
the small response to the survey. Later the General Accounting Office
discredited the study for that reason.

But with the help of the ITAA, the shortage became a crisis - one spurred on by
coverage in the technical and general media. Sen. John Warner, R-Va., quickly
responded with a bill to study the proclaimed shortage.

President Clinton cooperated by directing the Commerce and Education departments
to cooperate with ITAA in setting up task forces to study the problem. The
Commerce Department then produced a report mostly parroting the ITAA survey.

No provisions were made for worker organizations' input. The stakeholders were
identified as industry, government and education.

What we have is a carefully orchestrated program to persuade Congress to raise
limits on how many work visas may be issued for temporary foreign workers.

The facts are that the information technology industry's technical employment
has been growing at a healthy rate of slightly more than 10 percent a year. That
growth has been supplied by additions of large numbers of programmers, system
analysts and computer scientists/engineers.

From 1994 to 1998, binges of expansion have supplied 143,000 to 190,000
technical workers in short periods of time.

Analysis of data indicated large reservoirs of talented, educated and
underutilized women, blacks, older people and other groups in the hundreds of
thousands.

No abnormal wage inflation for computer scientists and system analysts over the
past year has indicated a worker shortage. Computer programmers experienced no
abnormal median wage inflation through 1996, and an inflation of only 8 percent
during 1997.

We believe the ITAA is misleading both the public and Congress, resulting in
congressional actions that would increase the H-1B visa quotas by substantial
amounts. These actions are intended to satisfy the desires of IT executives for
cheap, young, flexible indentured workers and to ignore the supply of older,
female, black or other workers with talent.

Instead of importing mercenary workers with no loyalty to this country, Congress
should provide training funds to bring the existing pool of eager and talented
American workers up to date and into the rapidly flowing job stream of
well-paying information technology jobs.

Anything less would be a sellout of American workers - and American interests.

Rivers is a MIT graduate and a former board member of the Institute of
Electrical and Electronic Engineers. E-mail him at RRivers297@aol.com.
Distributed by KRT News Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See accompanying story: A STUDY COMMISSIONED BY THE INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA PROVES THE NATION IS SUFFERING A MAJOR
SHORTAGE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY WORKERS.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Tim Foley, Pen Tip International Features

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 24, 1998 Thursday

BILL WILL RELAX VISA RESTRICTIONS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The White House and congressional leaders agreed Wednesday on legislation to
increase the number of foreign workers who can get visas letting them fill
high-technology jobs in the United States. The measure is supported by
technology companies but opposed by labor unions, and the Clinton administration
had said it would veto the bill. Wednesday, the White House announced its
support, saying it had won concessions from Congress. Under the compromise, the
number of workers admitted into the United States because of their special
skills would rise from 65,000 a year to about 115,000 a year for the next three
years. This year the limit was filled in May.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    November 10, 1999 Wednesday CITY EDITION

MINNESOTA WORKS TO HIRE FOREIGN WORKERS FASTER

BYLINE: DAVE BEAL STAFF COLUMNIST

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Beat; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 620 words


Minnesota state officials plan to try again, by the end of the week, to help
employers speed up the long, cumbersome process of hiring skilled workers from
abroad.

It won't be easy.

The complexities involved in hiring foreign workers can be awesome. Yet many
employers, particularly those seeking employees with technical skills, say
workers from abroad offer a huge talent pool. Often, recruiters here can't find
enough qualified U.S. workers to fill the growing numbers of information
technology jobs.

Certifying foreign workers involves at least five government agencies. It can
take up to three years, sometimes longer. This fall, the federal government
chopped funding for the state Economic Security Department, a key middleman in
the system. Thus new delays in processing applications seem inevitable.

Last spring, immigration attorneys and state officials packed into a conference
room in St. Paul to work out ways to slash the growing piles of applications for
foreign workers.

Attorney Richard Breitman says the agency reacted positively by hiring temporary
employees to work down the backlog.

Jack Weidenbach, an assistant commissioner at the agency, asked the U.S. Labor
Department for authority to charge employers a fee to process the applications.

No way, replied a Labor Department official in Chicago.

Weidenbach hasn't given up. He says his agency has barely enough money for one
staffer to do the work; five are needed. This time, he'll frame his request as
part of the state's five-year work force plan.

Breitman hails his persistence. A $300 processing fee for each of 800
applications would generate $240,000 a year for the agency, enough to pay for
most of the work. Many employers, Breitman says, would view $300 as a piddling
price to pay for getting an application moving.

But he blasts the Labor Department for requiring state agencies to process the
foreign worker applications without reimbursing them adequately. The federal
government, he protests, gives the states just enough money to process
applications at a snail's pace "and irritate the heck out of everybody" who
files them.

Meanwhile, the applications keep coming. For the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, the
state received 754 new requests to permanently certify foreign workers for
skilled jobs, up from 554 the year before and 367 in fiscal 1997.

Employee shortages are spreading to other fields where employers can't fill jobs
with domestic workers, pushing up the demand for foreign workers across the
country. In Minnesota, where jobless rates hover at record lows, the building
trades have begun turning to Canada. Dairy farmers look to South Africa.

"We're undergoing a tremendous labor shortage, and it's only projected to get
worse," said Steven Thal, a Twin Cities attorney who heads the Minnesota-Dakota
Chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

A presumption that the nation has a surplus of workers still underlies
immigration legislation. Yet that belief no longer holds true in much of the
country and for many occupations.

Congress remains caught up in a web of immigration politics. Its reluctance to
bless service fees to speed up the foreign worker applications could lead the
Labor Department to again reject Weidenbach's request.

But Thal says the state must keep on trying to get the message through to
Washington: Ease the application process so foreign workers can move more
readily into the labor force.

"Something," he said, "has to be done."

Dave Beal's column appears on Sundays, Wednesdays and Saturdays. Watch him at
11:45 Fridays on Channel 5's Eyewitness News Midday. He can be reached at
dbeal@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5429.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             January 9, 2000 Sunday

ILLEGAL HOTEL WORKERS BOTH WIN AND LOSE;
STILL TO BE DEPORTED, 4 HOPE CASE AIDS 'SECRET' WORK FORCE

BYLINE: Ruben Rosario staff writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 771 words


The newest champions of organized labor giggle a lot. They also blush mightily
at the newfound attention and the prospects of traveling to Chicago soon to
appear on a popular Spanish TV morning talk show broadcast worldwide.

"I think it's 'Despierta America' (Wake Up, America)," Reyna Albino, 24, says
almost apologetically before hiding her face in her hands.

They hear CNN might come calling.

Reyna and her three cousins - sisters Estela, Evertina and Rosa Albino - might
seem to some like unlikely American heroines. They are undocumented workers.
They don't speak English. They clean toilets and hotel rooms at wages that would
insult most American adults. They represent the "back-of-the-house" workers -
the open-secret work force of chambermaids, kitchen cooks and waterboys who for
generations have sustained this country's restaurant and hotel service industry.

On Thursday, the four women and five of their former co-workers received $72,000
in compensatory damages in a settlement between the U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission and the operators of the Holiday Inn Express in downtown
Minneapolis. The hotel fired the workers and reported them to the Immigration
and Naturalization Service shortly after the workers voted to form a union and
begin contract negotiations.

The settlement is the first of its kind since agency officials pledged to give
undocumented workers more protections against workplace abuses. Local employment
lawyers believe the settlement will embolden steps to protect such workers
nationwide while forcing employers to exert more care in who they hire.

The EEOC got involved after Hotel and Restaurant Employees Local 17 filed a
complaint accusing the hotel of retaliating against the workers for organizing.
The hotel, apparently with a straight face, denies this and maintained the
settlement was reached because of fears that litigation would be costly and drag
on for years.

Evertina said she has no doubts about the hotel's whistle-blowing motives. "When
they called reunion meetings during the unionization campaign, they were very
nice to us," she recalled Friday as she and the others sat in a room at Holy
Rosary Church in South Minneapolis. "After the vote, they looked angry. They
didn't even want to talk to us."

Labor laws prohibit employers from retaliating against workers who attempt to
unionize. But undocumented workers, until this week, were not included.

The hotel claims that they were tipped to the undocumented workers and that the
timing was merely a coincidence. But the local INS district chief, Curtis
Aljets, admitted that the hotel tipped his office to the workers and that he was
not aware union bargaining activity was going on at the time of the call.

'If we had to do it all over again, we probably wouldn't do it," he told the
Minneapolis-based Star Tribune.

The Albino sisters come from a family of 15 brothers and sisters who live on a
small farm in Guerrero, an impoverished state in Mexico. They said they came to
this country five years ago for the same reasons immigrants have been coming
here for centuries: a better job, a better life, the promise of America.

They said they first worked at a unionized hotel in downtown Minneapolis, where
they got breaks and received an eight-hour daily shift for cleaning an average
of 16 rooms each.

All except Rosa returned to Mexico, but they returned about two years ago as
conditions there worsened. Rosa, who had a job at the Holiday Inn Express, got
them to apply. But Estela said conditions were nowhere near those of their
previous hotel employer.

"We didn't get breaks, and we were let go after four or five hours," she said.
"And they suspected (about our illegal status). They used to joke that "'La
Migra" is here.' We didn't fully realize that they would report us because we
wanted to have a union."

They were jailed for six days and released on bail posted by the church. A
fund-raiser for the "Holiday Inn Express Nine" raised $13,000 to defray
unemployment, housing and legal costs while they await deportation hearings,
which can take months.

The settlement may have put in their pockets what will be a small fortune back
home, but it has no effect on their likely deportation.

They know their plight may help others in the secret work force we wink at
daily.

They would do it all over again but agreed that they would trade the settlement
money for the chance to remain here and work.

"We want to work hard and make a life here," Evertina said. "But if they tell us
that we have to go back, then that's what we will have to do."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Takushi, Pioneer Press
In a landmark settlement Thursday with a federal agency, the operators
of the downtown Minneapolis Holiday Inn Express agreed to pay $72,000
to nine illegal immigrants fired last October in alleged retaliation
for successfully organizing a union. Four of the workers are, from
left: Rosa Albino, Evertina Albino, Reyna Albino and Estela Albino.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 10, 2000 Friday

CLINTON BACKS VISAS FOR TECH WORKERS

BYLINE: FROM WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 333 words


The Clinton administration, responding to pleas from high-tech companies, said
today it supports a "reasonable increase" in the number of visas issued to
foreign computer workers.

Congress temporarily expanded a program in 1998 that grants special six-year
visas, raising the maximum from 65,000 to 115,000 per year. But that has not
satisfied the appetite of U.S. high-tech firms that cannot fill specialized
computer jobs.

The industry has been lobbying Congress for another expansion of the visa
program, known as H-1B visas. Both Democrats and Republicans have drafted
proposals to do that despite criticism from labor unions, which contend that
foreign workers limit job opportunities for U.S. workers and depress wages by
accepting lower salaries.

Boeing plans additional job cuts:

Boeing executives plan to cut 5,000 more jobs than previously announced. A
Securities and Exchange Commission document indicates Boeing will wind up with
180,000 to 190,000 employees at the end of the year. The company has about
194,100 employees worldwide. It did not say where cuts would be made.

Boeing spokesman Peter B. Conte said he knew of no link between the plan for
additional job cuts and a strike by 17,000 engineers and technical workers.
Prudential Securities fined:

The National Association of Securities Dealers said Thursday it fined Prudential
Securities $100,000 for allegedly trying to stifle its competition in the
lucrative business of underwriting initial public stock offerings.

New York-based Prudential is accused of pressuring a competing firm to increase
its IPO fee to the unwritten industry standard of 7 percent.

Dell cites bad memory chips:

Dell Computer Corp. is warning as many as 400,000 notebook computer customers
that their machines may contain defective memory chips.

The Round Rock, Texas-based computer maker this week sent a letter to customers
who bought the Latitude and Inspiron notebooks shipped between Feb. 1 and Nov.
20, 1999.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 12, 2000 Sunday

ARRIVING AT LAST;
MINNESOTA'S LATINO POPULATION IS GROWING AT TWICE THE NATIONAL RATE. MIGRANT
WORKERS COME. PROFESSIONALS ARE COMING FROM OTHER CITIES, LURED BY A ROBUST
LATINO BUSINESS COMMUNITY. HOMEGROWN LEADERS ARE MOVING INTO THE STATE'S POWER
STRUCTURE.

BYLINE: Theresa Monsour, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3752 words


Maria Cecilia Castro sat in her small office working. The end of August. The
start of school. Always special. But this year ... well, this year was
different.

Castro glanced at the clock.

She had been a principal for five years over at East Consolidated School on St.
Paul's East Side. But this new assignment already was being noticed in the
neighborhood beyond the school yard - heralded on the West Side, where her
parents still lived, as a homecoming.

She glanced at the clock again and did some work. There would be a little
reception in the school lunchroom that afternoon.

Finally Castro put away the work and wandered down the halls of Roosevelt
School. Her school. Clean. A little dated.

But full of surprises.

At the lunchroom door she realized this would be no small reception: Mexican
dancers and the spicy aroma of ethnic foods greeted her. The mayor had
proclaimed it "Maria Castro Day." Teachers, staff, community leaders, her
brothers and sisters all were there in a noisy, joyous crowd.

There were her parents, Antonio and Maria Castro. Their daughter was the new
principal. Years of investment had paid off handsomely. Long days working in the
canneries and fields of the Minnesota River Valley and elsewhere. Mornings
arising at 5 a.m. to pack lunches and iron school uniforms before heading off to
work in a cold room cutting meat at a South St. Paul plant. Days and nights of
repairing railroad tracks, even in floods and snowstorms.

But that was all in the past. Look how far this daughter had come. How far they
all had come.

Castro's story is in many ways the story of Latinos in Minnesota - rising
through the homegrown ranks or lured here more recently from other states or
countries by a thriving Latino business community. Some are leaving the old
neighborhoods where their parents settled, moving into the suburbs, the
corporations, the school boards, the state Legislature.

And the principal's office.

Across America, the Spanish-speaking population is growing fast - up 35.2
percent between 1990 and 1998. In Minnesota, the growth has been breathtaking -
up 61.3 percent in that period.

But those numbers are merely a statistical skeleton. The flesh and blood are the
stories told by parents who left Mexico or other Latin American countries for
the United States to do jobs no one else wanted - tales of fierce pride in the
face of indignities, of sacrifices made for their children.

When Maria Castro's mother rose to address the audience at the reception that
warm August afternoon in 1996, her eyes sparkled with pride.

She began to talk about her own migrant roots.

The fields

In Spanish, he doesn't sound so jolly. In Spanish, he just sounds large and
green.

"Gigante Verde."

He is the Green Giant, a symbol of the food processing industry that for years
was synonymous with the Minnesota River Valley. Farmers grew the sweet corn and
green peas while seasonal workers, including migrants from Texas and Mexico,
labored in the fields and canning factories. Castro's parents - Maria and
Antonio Castro - were among them.

In the fall of 1952, the couple stayed behind after other migrant workers left
to go on to another state, another field, another cannery. They had a child on
the way. Maria, named after her mother, was born Oct. 23 in St. Peter. She was
the first of five Castro children. The hospital required her parents to pay cash
because they didn't have insurance.

The presence of the Castros and other migrants in Minnesota often is taken for
granted. But without them, many comfortable things in everyday life would not be
there. Convenient things.

Cans of vegetables on the grocery shelf. Crisp sheets on the hotel beds. Newly
planted trees in the neighbor's yard. Clean silverware on the restaurant table.
Migrant workers labor behind the scenes to provide these things, virtually
invisible.

Yet some 25,000 migrant workers and their families come through Minnesota every
year, said Jose Garcia, coordinator of the University Migrant Project, which
works to educate the community about migrants. In the Twin Cities, migrants work
at garden nurseries, restaurants and hotels, he said. Most come from southern
Texas, others from Mexico and various Latin American countries. Their wages are
low - $6 to $7 an hour - and affordable housing is scarce. Some stay in shelters
for a couple of weeks until they find a cheap place to live or sleep curled up
in their cars.

But in rural Minnesota, these families are visible beyond the farm fields.
School districts report Spanish-speaking students in all but 14 of Minnesota's
87 counties, with the largest concentrations in areas with meat-packing or other
food processing plants - Worthington, Willmar, Moorhead, East Grand Forks, St.
James, Madelia and Albert Lea.

"They start on the migrant stream," said Robert Aponte, associate professor of
sociology at Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis who
specializes in Latinos in the Midwest. "Then they get a lucky break and stay,
settle out of the migrant stream."

"Migrant stream." "Settle out." This is standard terminology when sociologists
talk about seasonal workers. To the uninformed, these words make building a new
life sound as easy as washing ashore after floating down a creek: Tranquil.
Smooth. Effortless.

Of course, it is none of these things.

"They find a place to live," said Aponte. "Often a place with connections."

In the Twin Cities, that place is often St. Paul's West Side, home to the
venerable Our Lady of Guadalupe Church and many Latino businesses. Sometimes
South Minneapolis. From there, many move on to suburbs such as West St. Paul and
Mendota Heights.

Eventually Castro's parents settled out of the migrant stream on St. Paul's West
Side, getting jobs in meatpacking and the railroad. They sent their children to
St. Matthew's Catholic School and Humboldt High School.

"I was the good daughter," Castro said, laughing. Despite that, there would be
obstacles.

Against the odds

Castro doesn't tell this story, but her sister, Rosalinda Thompson, remembers it
vividly and doesn't hesitate to recount it.

It was that frantic time when upperclassmen at Humboldt High School on St.
Paul's West Side were immersed in the tedious, promising task of submitting
college applications.

But a school counselor told Maria not to worry. Don't bother filling one out.
Mexicans don't go to college.

Castro had other plans. As a child she listened to her parents. She immersed
herself in her schoolwork. She didn't date until she was older. Her father added
on to the family home so she could have a room to study. She was on the high
school yearbook committee and color guard.

Still, "The odds were against her" recalled Rosalinda, now a flight attendant
who lives with her husband and son in Lake Elmo.

Castro went on to earn degrees in education and administration from the
University of Minnesota and Mankato State University. She has been with the St.
Paul school district for 23 years.

To do that, she had to go beyond the traditional confines of her culture, which
often assigns women to the single job of homemaker. That didn't fit her
traditional Mexican marriage of 20 years; it ended five years ago.

But with quiet determination, the good daughter has ventured far beyond the
shadow of the Green Giant. Amid the clatter and chatter of the cafeteria at
Roosevelt, this petite woman is a commanding presence walking through a sea of
students. Some of the school's 543 students - kindergarten through third grade -
talk to her in Spanish, others in English. She responds in kind.

"Thank you for the cake, Miss Castro!" says a girl.

One boy bends her ear, talking rapidly in Spanish. Castro started a bilingual
kindergarten at the school so students speaking mostly Spanish would not fall
behind.

"Ladies, we walk here," she tells a couple of girls dashing in breathlessly from
recess.

"Thank you for the cake, Miss Castro!" a boy says.

The students wear navy-blue uniforms. The uniform code is posted in the school
office in English, Spanish and Hmong. The school's theme of the month is also
posted in the office: Optimism - Hope. "Please be alert for an optimistic
student or a student with a cheerful, hopeful outlook whom you may select to
honor at the January awards assembly," reads the notice.

Optimism and hope are in large supply. In January, results of the Metropolitan
Achievement Test showed Roosevelt - where 90 percent of the students are
low-income and nearly half are still learning English - was among the schools
that improved.

An elated Castro sent a celebratory cake to every Roosevelt classroom. On each
was written one word:

"Awesome."

From oboes to salsa

In the Twin Cities, things Latino seem everywhere at once: There's salsa dancing
and music at clubs around town, work by Latino artists on display at Casa de la
Cultura in the International Bazaar on East Lake Street in Minneapolis, and
poetry readings sponsored by CreArte Chicano Latino Arts Center in Minneapolis.
Shoppers can go to the Mercado Central, a minimall at Lake Street and
Bloomington Avenue in Minneapolis, and sip champurrada, a hot chocolate drink,
while ordering a colorful handmade pinata.

Culture is what brought the first Latino to Minnesota. When Luis Garzon took to
his sickbed in 1886, he probably didn't know he was making history.

The 19-year-old oboe player was with the Mexico City Orchestra performing at a
gala industrial exposition in Minneapolis. He fell ill and remained behind to
recuperate after the rest of the troupe left town, according to the Chicano
Latino Affairs Council, a state public policy and advocacy agency.

By the turn of the century, there were a couple dozen Latinos living in the
state. More came to work in the meatpacking, agricultural and the railroad
industries.

In the 1920s, the United States restricted immigration from parts of Europe, but
growers lobbied successfully to exempt Mexicans so they could have cheap labor.
By the 1930s, St. Paul's West Side was an established Chicano-Latino community
and the census listed 3,626 Mexicans in the state.

When the Depression hit, Mexicans were pressured to leave or were deported. By
some estimates, up to 600,000 people - including many U.S. citizens - were sent
packing to Mexico.

Come World War II, the country found itself short of workers and the Bracero
Program was created. It allowed braceros (contract laborers) from Mexico into
the United States for a period of time. It was supposed to be a temporary fix;
agriculture interests kept it going until 1964.

Since the late 1960s the number of Mexicans and other Spanish speakers moving to
Minnesota has increased steadily. The state demographer estimates the Hispanic
population at about 125,000.

Now a new kind of worker is migrating to Minnesota: Latino professionals are
arriving from Chicago, Puerto Rico, the East and West coasts, Texas and from
other countries. The community has spread far beyond St. Paul's West Side.

It has made for some unexpectedly successful cultural collisions.

Latino ice

Enter the hockey-playing Castros.

While their sisters Maria, Rosalinda and Elva were finding their own roads to
success, the Castro brothers - Antonio Jr. and John - were learning that one
route to acceptance in St. Paul was via the hockey rink. Young Tony hung out at
the outdoor rink at Baker Playground so much the adults put him to work flooding
it.

"They never saw Mexican people skate before," said Tony. "I was one of the first
ones to skate."

Tony, a father of four, operates an auto body repair business with his wife and
lives in Mendota Heights. John, a father of three, also has an auto body shop.

Tony played hockey for Humboldt High School and has coached youth hockey. One of
the advertisements painted on the West St. Paul Ice Arena's Zamboni machine says
it all: Castro Collision Center. Most of the Castro grandchildren play hockey or
have at least given it a try.

Sometimes Elva, a manicurist who also works at St. Matthew's School, translates
for Spanish-speaking families who show up at the ice arena a bit mystified by
the equipment - but certain this very Minnesota game will help their kids fit
in.

"We came here," Elva says of the Castro family. "And now we see other people
coming and we want to help them."

As for Elva's children, all three are goalies.

The undocumented

Jorge Saavedra F. has told the story many times: A few months ago a young Latino
woman visited a Twin Cities health clinic for a checkup. Doctors discovered she
had cancer and urged her to visit an oncologist, but she refused. She feared the
medical referral would draw the attention of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

She is in the United States legally, but members of her extended family are
undocumented.

Saavedra, chief legal officer for Centro Legal, Inc., a nonprofit community law
office in St. Paul, uses the incident to illustrate how fear of the INS and its
attempts to track down undocumented people spill over into the rest of the
Latino community - even to those here legally.

"You can't talk about the Latino community without talking about undocumented
persons," he said. "I wish it was marginal to the Latino community, but it
isn't. Everybody suffers in some way."

Undocumented workers, their immigration status aside, are contributing to
society, he said - they are hard workers with strong family values.

But Tim Counts, an INS spokesman in the St. Paul District, said the INS is
simply upholding the law by helping those immigrating legally and deterring
those attempting to circumvent the system.

"In general, we think immigration is a good thing in this country," he said. "It
has a history here. It is a source of constant renewal and energy and
diversity."

In fiscal year 1999, the St. Paul District - which includes Minnesota, North
Dakota and South Dakota - arrested 2,052 illegal immigrants, said Counts. Of
those, 70 percent had committed crimes, but that doesn't mean 70 percent of all
illegal immigrants are criminals. Counts said the INS is focusing resources on
illegal immigrants who have committed crimes, working with jails and police. The
vast majority of undocumented people come to work, not to commit crimes, he
said.

In that same fiscal year, 1,399 illegal aliens were deported or ordered to
leave, he said. More than 1,000 were from Mexico, but Counts said 53 countries
were represented, "from Albania to Zambia."

There may be 6 million people of all nationalities living in the United States
illegally, Counts said. No one knows for sure how many are in Minnesota.
Estimates have ranged from 7,000 to 30,000.

Although the 2000 census may clear up questions about the size of some immigrant
populations in Minnesota, many don't expect it to clarify the size of the Latino
population because so many undocumented workers fear government contact.

To them, anyone with a clipboard is suspect.

Glimpsing the future

Anthony Amato watches the Latino population in southwestern Minnesota and
foresees a "passing of the torch."

Although he observes it where he works as a professor of rural and regional
studies at Southwest State University in Marshall, some of the same trends may
hold true for much of the state.

According to the State Demographic Center, there may now be as many as 125,000
Hispanics living in Minnesota, give or take 15,000. Amato said the growth in the
Latino population in Minnesota may slow as the state's robust economy winds
down.

"But I think there is a much larger cycle at work, a cycle based on the general
aging of the Midwestern native-born population," said Amato, co-author of the
book, "To Call It Home: The New Immigrants of Southwestern Minnesota."

For example, jobs may open up in northern Minnesota as more seniors retire to
lake homes and seek services there, he said. The health care industry also will
need more employees. All of those forces may combine to permanently change
Minnesota.

"This passing of the torch will occur between young, new, vital immigrant
populations and the older host population. This passing of the torch will be a
long, slow process. The host populations will gradually see the rise of a new
set of small business leaders and political leaders in rural Minnesota."

"They will come from immigrant communities - particularly the Latino community,"
said Amato.

The family tapestry

When Castro goes home from her school at the end of the day, she uses
storytelling to wrap her three sons in their heritage like a rich Mexican
tapestry.

One thread is the sweat of her hard-working parents.

Another string is woven from her memories of annual treks in the family's
inexhaustible red station wagon to visit relatives in Mexico each summer and
take a burro ride into the mountains near Monterrey.

An additional strand is the life she leads each day, showing by example how to
make the most of life even if you don't start with much.

Her sons know the stories very well. The youngest, 12-year-old Jose, said they
have taught him this: "Be proud and never give up."

On a Monday night in January, Maria Castro sat in the gym at St. Joseph's School
in West St. Paul watching her son Jose Castro Rocha and the rest of the Holy
Spirit School basketball team take on St. Joseph's. Next to her on the bleachers
was a stack of work. She watched the game intently, even when Jose was on the
bench. But she really perked up when he hit the hardwoods.

He is a strong rebounder and guarded St. Joseph's biggest player, a student a
head taller than the other kids. "I'm not that good," he said modestly.

On weekends, she occasionally brings Jose to her office at school. He does his
homework while she does her office work. Castro is paying her dues to belong to
an elite club. Less than 5 percent of elementary and secondary school principals
nationwide are Hispanic, and in Minnesota there are a mere handful.

At her West St. Paul home, she is as in-charge as she is at school. When she
doesn't want to argue a point with her sons, she says simply, "There is no
discussion." But she admits that sometimes Jose teases her good-naturedly,
telling her, "Mom, you're acting like a principal." Actually, Jose said he wants
to be a principal someday. Or an NFL football player.

Miguel Castro Rocha, 18, Castro's middle son, is a student at Sibley High School
in Mendota Heights. Her oldest, Tony Castro Rocha, 23, is a student at the
University of Minnesota and living on his own.

Castro calls her oldest son home for a meal when she makes big batches of
traditional food, such as mole and Mexican soup. She also sends dishes over to
her parents.

"We were always connected with the music, the food, the celebrations," she said.

Theresa Monsour can be reached at tmonsour@pioneerpress.com, or (651) 228-5457.

LATINO

Country of origin: In the past, various government agencies, including the U.S.
Census Bureau, have used the term "Hispanic" to describe people speaking Spanish
and originating in any Spanish-speaking nation. But the term Chicano most
accurately refers to Mexicans born in the United States and the term Latino
often refers to people from Latin American countries.

About the country: Minnesota has many Mexican-Americans who have been here for
generations who are labeled "Hispanic" by government agencies. There are also
newly arrived Latinos, but they are not refugees. They come mostly from other
states, such as Texas, and not directly from other countries. Spanish-speakers
who do come to Minnesota from other countries tend to come from Mexico, but also
from other countries including Guatemala, Nicaragua, Ecuador and Honduras, and
the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico.

Why they came to Minnesota: A historic pipeline between Minnesota and Texas has
brought migrant workers to labor in agriculture and food processing for many
years, but there is also a growing professional community of Latinos relocating
from the east and west coasts, Texas and Chicago.

Size of population: Many believe the official "Hispanic" U.S. Census population
figure is significantly lower than reality, especially taking into account
undocumented people who fear contact with government officials. The State
Demographic Center estimates the population at 125,000, give or take 15,000.

Major population centers in Minnesota: While Minnesota's Chicano-Latino
population is concentrated in Hennepin and Ramsey counties, the Dakota County
population has surged. Many Spanish speakers also work at food processing plants
and live in greater Minnesota -- Worthington, Willmar, Moorhead, East Grand
Forks, St. James, Madelia and Albert Lea.

Religion: Mostly Roman Catholic.

Traditional foods: Rice and beans are a staple in Mexico and Puerto Rico, a U.S.
territory, and most other Latin American countries. Other common foods include
plantains, the yuca tuber and flavorings such as cumin and cilantro.

Cultural tensions: A concern for some is hanging onto a rich and colorful
heritage in a state that, while growing more diverse, remains fairly Anglo
compared to the rest of the country. Some Spanish-speaking parents worry about
their children maintaining their language and culture, especially in homogeneous
suburbs.

Language: Spanish. Thank you is Muchas gracias (MOO chas GRAH see ahs). Hello is
Hola (OH lah)

TO LEARN MORE

Cultural centers: The Neighborhood House and Our Lady of Guadalupe Church on St.
Paul's West Side; Holy Rosary, St. Stephen's and Todos Los Santos churches in
Minneapolis. The Latino Artists Group, a Twin Cities organization promoting
visual art, poetry, music and other work by Latino artists, shows art at Casa de
la Cultura in the International Bazaar, 301 East Lake Street, Minneapolis.
Various clubs in Minneapolis, such as Minneapolis Cafe and The Quest, dedicate
some nights to salsa dancing.

Business and restaurant districts: St. Paul's West Side, especially along
Concord Street, includes Chicano-Latino restaurants, clothing stores and other
shops. The area around East Lake Street and Bloomington Avenue in Minneapolis is
booming with Latino businesses, as is the area around Nicollet Avenue and 26th
Street.

Popular websites include:

www.latinolink.com with news and other information.

www.hispanic.com addressing a variety of topics from family to education.

www.latinoartistsgroup.com for a Twin Cities Latino artists organization.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The New Face of Minnesota//Fifth of seven parts

GRAPHIC: 6 photos: JIM GEHRZ, PIONEER PRESS
Maria Castro meets with first-grade teachers. The daughter of Mexican
immigrants who came north to work in the food-processing plants of
southern Minnesota, she is among the growing ranks of second- and
third-generation Latino immigrants who have become part of the fabric
- and leadership - of the state.
Maria Castro, principal at Roosevelt Elementary School in St. Paul
walks kindergartner Luis Lozano back to his classroom to unlock the
door. Some of the school's 543 students - kindergarten through third
grade - talk to her in Spanish, others in English. She responds in
kind. The school's uniform code is posted in the school office in
English, Spanish and Hmong.
Principal Castro monitors Roosevelt Elementary students as they arrive
at school and board buses at the end of the day.
Maria Castro makes sure kindergartner Sonya Navarro's shoes are tied
as Navarro prepares to enter Roosevelt Elementary at the start of the
school day. Castro works long hours at her job; less than 5 percent of
elementary and secondary school principals nationwide are Hispanic,
and in Minnesota there are a mere handful.
Vicente Martinez, 7, climbs into barber Mike Moberg's chair at
Moberg's Robert Street barbershop on St. Paul's West Side, as
Vicente's father Robert, right, waits. The elder Martinez has been
coming to Mike's Barbershop all his life. Moberg, 68, has been cutting
hair on the West Side for more than 46 years.
Maria Castro, center, watches the Holy Spirit-St. Joseph basketball
game as son Jose Castro-Rocha, 12, takes a quick break. She has often
told her sons stories of how their grandparents and parents worked
hard to better their lot in life. Jose said they have taught him this:
"Be proud and never give up."

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 281 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 2, 2000 Friday

CANDIDATES SQUARE OFF ON BUSINESS

BYLINE: DEBRA O'CONNOR STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 582 words


Democratic candidates for the 4th Congressional District got down to business
Thursday at a forum sponsored by the St. Paul Chamber of Commerce.

Questions about international trade, Social Security, visas for foreign
high-tech workers, health insurance, taxes and campaign finance reform were
answered by St. Paul City Council member Chris Coleman, state Sen. Steve Novak
of New Brighton, state Rep. Betty McCollum of North St. Paul, all of whom have
announced their candidacies, and businesswoman Cathie Hartnett of Mendota
Heights, who has not decided whether to run.

The candidates' responses reflected a pragmatic approach to the business
questions raised by the audience.

Hartnett is a business owner, but disagreed with some chamber of commerce
positions; she supports increasing the minimum wage, for example. "If I can't
afford to pay my employees a livable wage, am I a viable business?" she said in
an interview.

Coleman maintained that government needs to use tax policy to help businesses,
especially small ones, grow. He also said there's a huge cost to society when
the environment isn't protected, and he cited natural disasters he said were
caused by global warming.

Here's a selection of the candidates' comments.

On extending permanent, normal trade relations with China:

McCollum supports trade with all nations, but says U.S. trade arrangements must
prohibit child and prison labor and set reasonable environmental standards.

Novak said it's possible America can work out trade relations that will elevate
China's labor and environmental standards.

Coleman said he came to favor normal trade after learning that Chinese human
rights groups want the United States to establish it.

Hartnett, who was in China working on a health issue, said, "For us to think
that we don't want to be involved in every way possible made absolutely no sense
to me. It is a wonderful, beautiful culture."

On Congress expanding the number of visas for highly skilled immigrants that
American businesses want to hire:

Coleman favors expansion, saying, "These jobs can be outsourced to India in five
seconds."

Hartnett said, "I want us to open our borders and bring in the most talented
workers."

Novak favors some increase and pointed to the need to educate Americans to
fulfill high-technology business needs.

McCollum said retraining Americans is key.

On health care insurance:

McCollum said the issue needs to be addressed at a national level and standards
should be in place so plans cover diabetes and gynecological care.

Coleman said 100 percent of children must be covered, and that if the government
doesn't do something about health-care costs, small businesses won't be able to
attract employees.

The hourlong forum was helpful for chamber members who wanted a general sense of
where the candidates stand on business issues, said Zack Ryan, who works at
Lethert, Skwira, Schultz and Co., a certified public accounting firm.

The winner of the September primary will run against the endorsed Republican
candidate, state Sen. Linda Runbeck of Circle Pines, and the endorsed
Independence Party candidate, Pam Ellison of St. Paul. Neither has a primary
opponent.

The 4th District includes Ramsey County, South St. Paul, West St. Paul, part of
Inver Grove Heights, Mendota Heights, Lilydale, St. Anthony and Sunfish Lake.

Debra O'Connor covers politics and state government. She can be reached at
doconnor@pioneerpress.com and (651) 228-5453.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 4 photos
Hartnett
McCollum
Coleman
Novak

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved
