
                               1 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  January 23, 1996 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

CLINTON CRACKS DOWN ON HIRING

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 86 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton is expected to issue an order barring federal contracts with
companies that violate immigration law by hiring undocumented foreign workers,
administration officials said on Monday. The order is part of a stepped-up
effort to stop employers from hiring illegal immigrants and to open jobs for
American citizens. Congress outlawed the hiring of illegal aliens in 1986.
Enforcement has faded in the last six years, but immigration is now becoming a
volatile issue in the presidential campaign.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                September 27, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

SOUTHERN INS SWEEP ENDS IN ARREST OF 4,044 WORKERS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 75 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More than 4,000 illegal workers were arrested this summer in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's largest enforcement operation in the South in more than
a decade, officials said Tuesday. Of the 4,044 immigrants found working
illegally in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi and Tennessee,
more than 3,400 have already been sent back to their native countries. Most of
the illegal immigrants - more than 3,500 - were Mexican.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   March 22, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

INS FINES FIRM $1.5 MILLION

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 203 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A building, cleaning and maintenance company was fined a record $1.5 million for
allegedly employing thousands of illegal aliens.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service levied the big fine partly as a
warning to other companies that continue to hire illegal aliens for lower pay
than other employees receive, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said Thursday.

Colin Cares was cited for more than 150 instances of knowingly hiring illegal
aliens and employing aliens after their work authorization had expired, Meissner
said.

It also was accused of 2,500 instances of failing to maintain the required
employee records.

She said these cases, dating to 1988, led to the dismissal of 2,500 illegal
workers.

In addition, five company managers are under criminal investigation.

Colin Cares lawyer Aaron Marcu Jr. said the most of the charges stemmed from
"paper mistakes" rather than intentional wrongdoing.

He said Colin Cares has developed its own system with INS help to screen out
illegal aliens but is "handcuffed" by lack of access to the agency's database.

Colin Cares employs about 4,000 workers in the mid-Atlantic states and Florida.
Its clients include Bloomingdale's, AT&T and NYNEX.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   May 18, 1995 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

RULING MAY END DETENTION OF SMUGGLED IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


In a decision that could end nearly two years of detention for some of the
passengers of the Golden Venture immigrant smuggling ship, a federal judge in
Pennsylvania ruled that the immigrants have been wrongfully held by the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service since their arrival off the coast of
Queens and should be released on bond. The ruling poses a potential threat to
the Clinton administration's tough policy of holding smuggled Chinese immigrants
in jail until their cases are resolved as a way of deterring others from coming
to this country.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                September 27, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

MAN ARRESTED AT TWIN CITIES AIRPORT IS CHARGED WITH TRYING TO SMUGGLE ALIEN

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 393 words


An immigration inspector at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport
thought it was odd that a young woman traveling with a man from Singapore spoke
only Mandarin Chinese.

"Usually when a young couple comes here from Singapore, both speak English," the
inspector said.

That clue led inspectors to arrest the man, Nguan Choon Chua, who was indicted
by a federal grand jury last week on charges of alien smuggling. The woman said
she was to pay him more than $30,000 to get her into the United States.

Officials said Chua, 34, has come into the United States with women about once a
month for the past nine months, entering in New York, Los Angeles or Chicago and
once coming out of Toronto. Earlier this year, when he was trying to fly out of
New York, he was stopped for failing to declare $40,000.

Both Chua and the woman were being held in the Twin Cities without bail.

Officials from the Immigration and Naturalization Service said this is the first
time in Minnesota that they've had enough evidence to allow the U.S. attorney to
prosecute in an alien smuggling case involving a Chinese national.

Greg Gagne, an INS spokesman in Washington, said alien smuggling probably will
remain relatively rare in Minnesota.

"You don't get as much international traffic, so it's a bit easier to be
vigilant," he said. "You go into a high-traffic environment and sometimes it's a
little more porous."

Chua and the woman arrived Sept. 6 in the Twin Cities on a flight from
Amsterdam, carrying Singaporean passports. As with all international passengers,
they were stopped so inspectors could check passports, pictures, visas and other
documents.

The inspector, who is not being named at the request of the INS, said Chua
identified himself as a used-car salesman who had come to the United States
seven or eight times in the past year.

"Not too many people can afford travel like that," the inspector said.
Inspectors decided to question the couple separately.

"We asked how long they knew each other," the inspector said. "The lady says
three years, the man says two months." She also failed to remember making a trip
to Hong Kong, even though there was a Hong Kong immigration stamp from 1993.
"That was making me more and more suspicious," the inspector said.

Inspectors discovered that both passports had been altered.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   April 6, 1996 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

USE OF RENTED CHILDREN KEEPS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS OUT OF DETENTION CAMPS

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Texas


Illegal immigrants are borrowing or renting children as passports into the
country, taking advantage of a U.S. policy against incarcerating families caught
crossing the border.

"It was a scam. That's what it amounted to," said Gus Garcia, assistant chief of
the Border Patrol's Rio Grande Valley sector. "We found out that some of the
aliens were using minor children to ensure their release."

Under a policy in effect for more than a decade, illegal immigrants caught
crossing the border with a minor son or daughter are released into the United
States rather than held at an Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center.

The family provides an address and phone number where it can be reached so it
can be notified of a court hearing. But many just give false information and
disappear.

Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman in Washington, said the the agency thinks it is
inappropriate to keep families, particularly children and their mothers, at a
detention compound.

The facilities are surrounded by barbed wire and patrolled by guards. Detainees
wear bright orange uniforms and sleep in dormitories, men and women kept
separate. Immigrants charged with crimes also are held there.

In the past five months, immigrants crossing the south Texas border have
admitted borrowing or renting children, INS and Border Patrol agents said.

Agents noticed the problem in December, when the number of families caught
crossing into the United States in the Brownsville, Texas, area skyrocketed from
the usual 10 to 15 a month, to 88 in less than a month.

"When you start releasing families, word gets out that all you've got to do is
bring someone with you, a juvenile or child, to get released," he said. "People
realized that we were not doing anything with them."

In response, INS in late December began detaining families at its holding center
outside Brownsville. But the old policy was implemented again two weeks ago when
family crossings ground to a halt, presumably because word got out about the
policy change.

During the temporary change, about 100 children, ranging in age from a few
months to 17 years old, were housed with their mothers at the detention center,
said Roel Delgado, who oversees the facility. Most were from Central America.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   June 22, 1995 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

HOUSE LEGISLATION WOULD CUT LEGAL IMMIGRATION 30%

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The chairman of the House immigration subcommittee announced legislation
Wednesday to cut legal immigration by 30 percent and crack down on illegal
entrants by fortifying the southern borders with increased patrols and
"impenetrable" fences.

It was the opening shot of what promises to be a contentious debate responding
to public anxiety over illegal immigration and overhauling the nation's
30-year-old system to set priorities for legal immigrants.

"What's in the best interests of the American worker and the American economy is
what drives us," said Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas, as he announced the bill.
The measure is expected to be formally introduced with 11 co-sponsors today.

The legislation would set an annual ceiling of 330,000 family-sponsored
immigrants and eliminate visa eligibility for brothers, sisters and adult
children of citizens. It would also cap employment-based immigration at 135,000;
refugees and asylum-seekers would be limited to 70,000.

Those numbers would be a drop from a total of about 830,000 legal entrants under
current law.

Smith's bill would increase the number of border patrol agents by 5,000 over
five years and increase by 500 the number of federal agents enforcing laws
against the hiring of illegal aliens.

The legislation also would require the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
construct triple-barrier fences along certain stretches of the southern border
where alien smuggling is most prevalent.

The subcommittee has scheduled a June 28 hearing to receive administration and
interest-group reaction to the proposal, and a spokesman for the panel said it
will act on the measure when Congress reconvenes after the July 4 recess.

In the Senate, Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., chairman of the Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, expects to introduce his own legal immigration reform next month, a
subcommittee aide said.

Smith's legislation parallels the recommendations submitted this month by the
bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform. The congressionally created
panel, however, would cut legal immigration levels by an additional 15,000 a
year and impose fees on employers who sponsor foreign workers.

President Clinton endorsed the broad objectives of the commission.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    July 21, 1995 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL CLEARS HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 153 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The most dramatic overhaul of immigration policy in 30 years, including
stringent border controls and significantly lower limits on legal immigration,
cleared its first hurdle in the House on Thursday. The Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration sent the 300-plus-page bill, introduced last month by Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, to the full committee. Panel members agreed to defer debate on
the more controversial amendments until full-committee consideration, expected
after the August congressional recess. Opponents want the bill's provisions
dealing with legal and illegal immigration tackled separately. In addition to
politically popular measures clamping down on illegal immigrants, the bill would
reduce from about 830,000 to 585,000 the number of foreigners eligible for legal
entry and restrict visas to highly skilled workers and the spouses and minor
children of U.S. citizens and legal residents.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 November 2, 1995 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION DATA ON LINE

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 102 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration officials are testing a program that lets companies check government
computer files to make sure new employees aren't in the United States illegally.

"Most illegal immigrants come here for jobs, so we have to look to the
workplace," Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner
said as she unveiled the pilot project, which could become a blueprint for a
national system.

The project - along with more frequent work-site visits by INS agents - involves
223 Southern California companies. Up to half the country's 4 million or so
illegal immigrants live in California.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  November 5, 1995 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

REFORM NEEDS MORE THOUGHT BEFORE ACTION;
FIRST STEP IS TO SEPARATE CONSIDERATION OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION FROM LEGAL
IMMIGRATION.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 429 words


Congress is poised for the first major rethinking of U.S. immigration policy in
30 years. It is practical and necessary that this revamp ultimately include an
even-handed, carefully considered reduction in the number of legal immigrants to
the United States.

In a massive piece of pending House immigration legislation, the working number
for that reduction is 30 percent - from about 800,000 annually now to no more
than 535,000 by the year 2001. We have no confidence that this is a magic
number, but it follows the recommendations of the bipartisan (Barbara) Jordan
Commission on immigration reform, and a 30 percent cut does address genuine
pressures.

Solid, fair immigration reform and responsible policies behind the popular
politics, however, require much more work before Congress acts. The first step
is to separate consideration of illegal immigration management from
policy-making on legal immigration. The House will do the quality and ethics of
the debate great justice by breaking out provisions on illegal immigration for
imminent consideration and then addressing legal immigration issues separately.

Legal immigrants and refugees should not be lumped with people who do not play
by the rules and work the system honestly. By separating the issues, Congress
also goes a fair way toward the obligation to say that this nation of immigrants
is enriched by diversity as well as being a nation challenged sometimes to
handle the social costs of immigration precisely because of its richness.

Domestic policy on immigration cannot be considered outside the context of an
American foreign policy that tries to help solve the worldwide problems that are
spawning human migrations of epic proportion.

The simple truth is that most folks leave their homes only when they are unsafe
because of political strife or where the local economy does not sustain them. As
a practical matter of immigration management, it is perverse for Congress to
thwart U.S. foreign policies that promote democracy-building and economic growth
elsewhere.

The federal debate about immigration policy will ripen for sure next year. There
are tough issues, especially regarding whether legal immigrants are entitled to
the same social benefits as citizens and how to define family members in setting
immigration priorities.

The way to start fairly is to enact reforms in illegal immigration control first
and to acknowledge that immigration is an international issue. Then Congress
will be in an appropriate position to curtail legal immigration to sustainable
levels.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  November 21, 1995 Tuesday MINNESOTA EDITION

FEDERAL COURT GUTS CALIF. LAW BARRING AID TO SOME ALIENS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A federal judge Monday struck down portions of a voter-approved California law
that would deny many public services to undocumented immigrants, saying parts of
it conflict with federal law.

In a written ruling on Proposition 187, U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer
ruled that undocumented newcomers can't be asked about their immigration status
when applying to attend public schools or receive health and welfare benefits.

"The state is powerless to enact its own scheme to regulate immigration or to
devise immigration regulations which run parallel to or purport to supplement
the federal immigration law," Pfaelzer wrote in the 71-page ruling.

Pfaelzer issued the ruling in response to a motion for summary judgment filed by
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, the American Civil
Liberties Union and other organizations.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   February 9, 1996 Friday MINNESOTA EDITION

MONEY BUYS 1,000 BORDER PATROL AGENTS;
CONGRESS PROVIDES $2.6 BILLION TO INS

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 282 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Now that Congress has provided more money, the Clinton administration can fully
implement a plan developed three years ago for controlling illegal immigration,
Attorney General Janet Reno said Thursday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had laid out a comprehensive strategy
"to reverse years of neglect" and control illegal immigration, Reno said. "Now,
we are putting it to work."

Reno and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner called the news conference to discuss
the agency's 1996 budget, most of which was funded in a stopgap spending bill
approved earlier this year by Congress.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee, bridled at the claim that the administration's strategy has been
in place for three years, lacking only congressional funding for full
implementation.

"Significant increases in the INS budget for border enforcement coincide with
Republican majorities in Congress, not the arrival of the Clinton
administration," Smith said.

Congress has set aside a record $2.6 billion for the INS this year, up nearly a
quarter from last year - and nearly three-quarters from the $1.6 billion
allocated in 1993.

The $511 million in new money this year will go largely for new border
enforcement efforts, including the addition of 1,000 Border Patrol agents on the
Southwest border this year; as well as new money for detention and deportation
of criminal and deportable aliens.

The agency also will use its new resources to inspect more workplaces to ensure
illegal aliens aren't being employed, improve legal immigration services and
speed up legal entries and improve its border-control technologies.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 February 9, 1995 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

690 STOPPED IN ILLEGAL CROSSINGS

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz.


A beefed-up Border Patrol resulted in a record 690 arrests of illegal immigrants
Tuesday in Arizona's biggest border town, evidence that a planned crackdown is
working, the nation's immigration chief said Wednesday. "The message will go out
that this is no longer a place you can cross," Immigration and Naturalization
Service Commissioner Doris Meissner said. The increase has been blamed on
crackdowns in other hot spots, including San Diego and El Paso, Texas, and more
recently on the economic hardships caused by Mexico's peso collapse.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  February 10, 1995 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT NOT GIVEN A BREAK

BYLINE: BYLINE: Joe Suocheray, Staff Columnist

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 623 words


Oscar Velazquez was delivered by his family to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in Bloomington on Thursday at 6:59 a.m. While his
family tried to establish Oscar's itinerary, Oscar was taken to the airport and
put on an airplane bound for Dallas, where a bus would be waiting. He was being
deported to Mexico.

His family said they raced to the airport for a final goodbye when they learned
that Oscar had been taken there, but missed his departure.

Oscar became known to the public in January when he was fighting his deportation
proceedings. He lost. He had been in America for 11 years, buying at least two
of those years in a sham marriage. He then married Shari Libby. They have two
children, Nicolas, 2, and Rico, 4. Both Shari and Oscar worked. They own a home.
They paid taxes. Oscar was never in a bit of trouble.

But now he is out of here. And he can't come back. The INS arrests a million
people a year. In the last eight days the local INS office arrested 207 people.
An INS plane left here the other day with 64 illegal aliens. There is a
never-ending supply of illegals trying to buy into the American dream and Oscar
was one of them. He stands out only because he achieved it.

It was difficult for Shari Velazquez to describe her last 24 hours with Oscar.
They had trouble sleeping Wednesday night. Oscar paced and kept checking on his
boys, at one point sobbing over Rico when he thought Shari was asleep and didn't
hear him.

"I got up at that point and kept myself busy because I couldn't take it," Shari
said Thursday morning. "We packed. We talked. It was quiet and solemn. On paper,
I will never see Oscar again, but in my heart I know I will see him."

Shari Velazquez contends that the INS treated her poorly Thursday morning
because she and her family had caused the INS so much trouble by keeping Oscar's
presence here alive through legal proceedings. She said Carl Houseman, the local
INS director, purposely kept her from knowing of Oscar's departure time, that
she thought she would have time for one last goodbye at the airport. She vows to
take her fight to Washington, D.C.

Houseman doesn't deny that dealing with Oscar was a tough call.

"There was nothing I could say to Shari to make her see that this was right or
that it had to be done," Houseman said Thursday. "This one was not easy. I am
entirely aware of the human feelings and desires that these cases have."

So why doesn't the law accommodate an 11-year resident of America who has
achieved exactly what political sentiment might expect of him, personal
responsibility, work, a family? According to Houseman, the sham marriage is a
base line violation of the law that denies illegal aliens any further
opportunity to seek a waiver in any visa petition.

"If you pay for a marriage," Houseman said, "the law is very clear. You cannot
get a waiver."

In theory, an illegal alien who has committed a crime can still win a waiver to
remain in the United States and earn permanent residency. The laws are
tightening all the time, but Houseman did not deny that in theory a criminal,
when there is evidence to support the idea that it was a one-time mistake, can
still win a waiver to remain here.

Oscar, who claimed to have married a woman in the mid-1980s - a friend of a
friend trying to help a friend - cannot now win a waiver because of that action.
His exemplary life, his current and very real family, his employment, his
civility, cannot be introduced as the evidence to support the idea that his sham
marriage was his one-time mistake.

He is gone. If we were this tough on our native-born lawbreakers, we would be
living in paradise.

Joe Soucheray's columns appear on Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    May 4, 1995 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

TOUGHER PENALTIES SOUGHT TO CUT ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration proposed legislation Wednesday to curb illegal
immigration, with plans to hire more Border Patrol agents and speed the
deportation of people entering the country unlawfully. The legislation also is
aimed at smugglers of illegal aliens - making use of federal racketeering law to
treat smuggling rings the same way as other types of organized crime. Under
current sentencing guidelines, alien smugglers may receive sentences of a year
or less if convicted. The racketeering law provides for sentences of up to 20
years.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    June 30, 1995 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT RULES PROPOSED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 60 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A House task force set up by Newt Gingrich proposed firm measures to curb
illegal immigration Thursday, including requiring hospitals to report illegal
immigrants who come to emergency rooms for treatment and denying federal
education funds for undocumented children. Under the 62-page plan, virtually all
federal benefits would be denied illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   July 29, 1995 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

STATE INS SWEEP NETS 110 ILLEGAL ALIENS DEPORTATIONS, HEARINGS SET FOR SOME
DETAINEES

BYLINE: BYLINE: Julio Ojeda-Zapata, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 595 words


In one of its periodic efforts to find illegal aliens, the federal Immigration
and Naturalization Service has apprehended more than 100 people allegedly living
and working in Minnesota without legal documentation.

The enforcement sweep targeted nine workplaces in and around the Twin Cities
metropolitan area, said Mark Cangemi, assistant district director for
investigations in the agency's Twin Cities office.

The raids occurred between Monday and Thursday, Cangemi said. All but two were
launched after proprietors or managers at the workplaces were given notice, he
said.

Of the 110 people taken into custody, 49 agreed to be deported from the United
States immediately and were transported to Laredo, Texas, Cangemi said.

Another 41 people were sent to a processing center in Denver, and many of those
subsequently made arrangements to be released on bond.

"I've been signing bond papers all day long," Cangemi said Friday.

Several others posted bonds in the Twin Cities or were released on their own
recognizance pending deportation hearings, Cangemi said.

Those who were not released were permitted to make telephone calls to family or
friends, he said.

Of those taken into custody, 84 were natives of Mexico and the rest are from
Honduras, El Salvador, Ecuador, Guatemala and Guyana, he said.

The assistant district director said this week's enforcement sweep was in the
planning stages for about six weeks.

Such sweeps occur every few months and usually yield about 150 apprehensions,
Cangemi said. The district office's record - 218 apprehensions in one 48-hour
period - was set two years ago, he said.

One of the companies affected by the sweep was Duo Products, a plastics
injection-molding company in Farmington that lost 40 permanent employees -
nearly a third of its staff - and about 15 workers from temporary agencies,
according to human resources director Sharon Olson.

The raid came as no surprise: The immigration service had audited employee files
earlier this month, and company officials suspected many irregularities would be
unearthed, she said.

Still, Olson said she was bothered by the incident. She recalled several
temporary workers fleeing into corn fields when they spotted immigration agents,
who pursued and caught them. Though some workers were handcuffed, Olson said she
did not see any physical abuse.

Dozens of those apprehended live in Northfield and the raids shocked and
saddened many city residents. About 300 Hispanics live in the city.

On Friday night, several dozen residents gathered at a local church to grapple
with the crisis.

"We are not here to debate INS policy," said Terry Hoops, an anthropology
professor at St. Olaf College who moderated the meeting with his Argentinian
wife, Patricia.

"However, we are concerned about families being torn apart and left without
breadwinners," Hoops said. "We are looking for ways to respond to their
situation" with emotional support as well as financial and legal assistance."

Hoops is proposing a city ordinance that would protect Hispanics by declaring
Northfield a "safe place" in which city officials and residents do not turn in
illegal aliens. "We see Latinos as an integral part of our community," Hoops
said.

A City Council member who attended the meeting said he would present the text of
the ordinance to the city attorney to determine whether it is legally
defensible.

Meanwhile, a representative from U.S. Sen. Paul Wellstone's office offered to
help employers or relatives of those apprehended in the immigration sweep.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 January 13, 1996 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

U.S. BOLSTERS BORDER POLICE IN SOUTHWEST

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government will intensify its effort against illegal crossings of the
Mexican border with Arizona and California starting Tuesday, sending in more
agents and modern equipment and strengthening checkpoints.

The immediate aim is to combat an expected surge of illegal immigrants - a
combination of normal, seasonal increases and economic hard times due to
devaluation of the Mexican peso.

In the longer term, the effort also is part of a broad plan to control illegal
immigration and smuggling, Attorney General Janet Reno and Immigration
Commissioner Doris Meissner said Friday.

Meissner cautioned against reading too much into one part of the enhancement
program - increased coordination with the armed forces.

She said there will be no increase in the 200 to 300 members of the military
already helping the Immigration and Naturalization Service in border control and
anti-drug-smuggling efforts. The Pentagon cooperation includes building roads
and fences and operating communications equipment.

One Mexican official said he had been unaware of the border initiative.

"This is a big surprise and a big concern," said Luis Cabrera, the Mexican
consul from Phoenix, who first learned of the plans at a news conference in
Tucson on Friday.

The enhanced enforcement will link initiatives along the California and Arizona
borders. Some 300 additional federal agents will be sent to the area, with
assistance from 135 local officers.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Reno

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  February 18, 1996 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

POLL SHOWS STRONG PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR HARNESSING U.S. IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nearly eight of every 10 Americans believe immigration rates should be
dramatically scaled back - and fully a fifth want a halt to all immigration,
legal or not, a new poll suggests.

The Roper poll, commissioned by a small nonprofit group that advocates a
substantially decreased U.S. population, comes as Congress is poised to tackle
bills seeking to reduce legal and illegal immigration.

Seventy-nine percent of those polled for Negative Population Growth Inc. said
the United States should allow 600,000 or fewer immigrants entry annually. Of
that number, 70 percent favored immigration rates of 300,000 or less annually;
54 percent endorsed rates of 100,000 or less.

"This is clearly a mandate that people want low numbers of immigration," said
Negative Population Growth's Washington director, Sharon McCloe Stein, who
provided the poll to the Associated Press in advance of its Monday release.

In 1994, the United States granted legal residency, asylum or refugee status to
804,416 foreigners. While illegal immigration numbers can't be pinpointed with
accuracy, at least 300,000 people are believed to enter unlawfully each year.

The poll's findings were questioned by the National Immigration Forum, which is
fighting efforts in Congress to reduce legal immigration.

Lumping legal and illegal immigration into one category and asking respondents
to specify a permissible number skews the outcome, said Immigration Forum
executive director Frank Sharry.

"You're asking people who are largely uninformed on the issue to say what's the
right number," Sharry said. "I would suggest they framed their question in such
a way as to get the best possible response from their point of view."

Sharry said his group's own polling over the last six months found eight of
every 10 Americans concerned about illegal immigration. But roughly 60 percent
of those who had an opinion about immigration thought legal immigration is a
good thing, he said.

The Negative Population Growth poll showed blacks and non-Hispanic whites were
far more likely to favor lower immigration rates than Hispanics. Favoring
immigration of 300,000 or less annually were 72 percent of blacks polled, 71
percent of non-Hispanic whites and 52 percent of Hispanics.

Party affiliation appeared to cause little difference in respondents' opinions.

The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points in the poll
of 1,978 men and women age 18 and over interviewed face-to-face over a two-week
period in December.

Negative Population Growth, headquartered in Teaneck, N.J., advocates population
reductions through lowered birth rates. Recently, however, the group has turned
its attention to immigration in the belief that more immediate population
reductions can be achieved through lessened immigration.

The group, with some 15,000 members, believes the ideal U.S. population should
be 150 million. Currently, the U.S. population stands at 264 million.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   March 15, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

FAMILIES SUFFER AS RIO GRANDE SWEEPS AWAY MANY MIGRANTS

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


More than 300 illegal immigrants drown each year trying to cross the Rio Grande
River into Texas, and many wind up buried in unmarked graves, leaving their
families left wondering about their fate, researchers said Thursday.

"It's become a tragedy for families of those who disappeared," said Nestor
Rodriguez, one of the directors of the study of 10 years of migrant deaths along
the 1,000-mile Texas-Mexico border. "Families are working against terrible or
impossible odds. If there's no documentation, families won't find their loved
ones."

The study found that state figures for migrant deaths, as counted through death
certificates, were much lower than the numbers reported by police or fire
departments that actually removed the bodies from the river or its banks.

Of 3,200 migrant deaths, only about 40 percent were in the state record system,
the University of Houston researchers said.

One problem is financial: Of seven border counties, only El Paso has a full-time
certified medical examiner. The other counties are reluctant to pay for sending
the bodies there and performing a $500 autopsy.

Instead, counties pay $70 to local morticians for a quick funeral, often within
24 hours. Next of kin are sometimes never notified.

The dead wind up in pauper's graves, a hand painted description on a wooden
cross often listing only the date the body was found, gender and a case number.
The writing may fade away in a few months in the scorching South Texas sun.

Because the victims usually strip to swim across the river, many of the nude,
decomposing bodies are never identified.

The muddy Rio Grande is a mix of shallow, calm water and deep, swift currents
racing between sheer cliffs. Migrants frequently make the crossing at night in
the more dangerous, remote sections that are not so heavily guarded.

Andrea Delgado, 49, of Houston, has been looking for her brother since 1988,
when he last was seen trying to cross the river near Brownsville.

"The authorities, such as the police, told me that my problem was a Mexican one,
not American, that my brother was a wetback," she said. "I've never found my
brother's body."

Researchers said the situation is somewhat better on the Mexican side of the
border, where records are centralized.

They warned that stepped-up border control efforts will lead to even more deaths
as illegal aliens are forced to try riskier crossing points.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  April 3, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

INTOLERANT CLIMATE CITED IN BEATING OF IMMIGRANTS;
CIVIL RIGHTS PROBE BEGINS IN CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: BYLINE: Carol Morello, KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 872 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Latino and immigrant groups said Tuesday that a videotaped police beating of two
fleeing illegal immigrants illustrates how foreigners are commonly treated, and
they blamed a climate of "immigrant-bashing."

As the Justice Department announced a civil rights investigation into Monday's
incident, demonstrators chanted "We want justice" outside the downtown federal
building where the Immigration and Naturalization Service issues green cards
granting foreigners legal residence.

The dramatic videotape of two sheriff's deputies using their batons on two
unresisting suspects, shown repeatedly in the United States and Mexico, has
outraged civil rights groups, who compare it to the 1991 arrest of Rodney King.

It was taped Monday afternoon by a television news helicopter following police
who were pursuing a truckload of illegal aliens.

Law enforcement officials first spotted the pickup on a side road commonly used
to evade an INS checkpoint about 60 miles north of the Mexican border. When
Border Patrol agents began chasing them, police said, the passengers lobbed beer
cans at them.

The Border Patrol then backed off and called for assistance from the Riverside
County Sheriff's Department, which picked up the pursuit. As the chase stretched
over more than 70 miles of expressway at speeds reaching 100 mph, the pickup's
camper top flew off. Twice during the chase, the pickup rammed other cars,
apparently to divert attention, police said.

About 10 miles east of downtown Los Angeles, the driver pulled his battered
green pickup to the shoulder of the Pomona Freeway. Nineteen people crammed onto
the back platform leaped out, jumped a guard rail and ran away - many into the
arms of sheriff's deputies. All were eventually caught and arrested.

But back at the pickup, a woman in the passenger seat apparently could not open
the door, and the driver stayed behind to help her.

The videotape shows a blond-haired sheriff's deputy running around the truck to
the two people and raising his baton six times to club the driver around his
back and shoulders. The same deputy struck the woman twice on the back with his
baton and then yanked her to the ground by her hair. A second, bald deputy hit
her once on the back with his baton.

Riverside sheriff's spokesman Sgt. Mark Lohman said the department was
"embarrassed" by the tape. The deputies, whose names have not been released,
were put on paid administrative leave. The sheriff's department has launched an
internal investigation, and the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, in
whose jurisdiction it occurred, is conducting a criminal investigation.

A wide range of elected officials, civil rights groups and Latinos rushed to
condemn the treatment of the foreigners, whose beating they said was unprovoked
and unwarranted.

"I cringe when I see it," said Tom White, a former police sergeant who is part
of a police monitoring group called Police Watch. "Those people are cringing,
cowering and getting beaten savagely. (The deputy) is just swinging at everybody
who happens to be standing."

The American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California blamed what it called
"high-speed pursuit syndrome."

"Frequently when officers engage in high-speed pursuits, they get pumped-up
energies that are expended with baton blows against people who offer no
resistance," said Chris Herrera of the ACLU.

But immigrant groups said racism and anti-immigrant political rhetoric were
equally at fault.

Hector Brolo of the Mexican-American Political Association said relatives of the
two arrested immigrants have told him the deputies used racial slurs while
striking the suspects.

"In a lot of police abuse cases, the INS severely beats immigrants, and they get
away with it because they're deported the next day and there are no witnesses,"
he said.

Some groups said maltreatment of immigrants caught sneaking illegally into the
country has increased as immigrants have been blamed for a host of societal and
budgetary problems.

"This is just the tip of the iceberg," said Meredith Brown, director of human
rights for the Central American Resource Center. "We've had various reports of
police brutality against the immigrant community. A pattern is being
established. The anti-immigrant attitude in the nation is permeating the INS and
other agencies."

Bobbi Murray, an activist with the Coalition for Humane Immigration Rights in
Los Angeles, said immigrants, both legal and illegal, have been so demonized
that some police feel they can act with impunity.

"We're concerned that the rhetoric painting immigrants, or anyone who looks like
an immigrant, as a real dangerous enemy contributes to this kind of brutality,"
she said.

Many people were stunned that the sheriff's deputies used such force while a
noisy news helicopter was hovering just overhead.

"The brutality that was displayed by the Riverside Sheriff's Department was a
barbaric act," said Los Angeles City Councilman Richard Alatorre. "Not only did
it happen, but the entire time a helicopter was up in the air filming the
behavior on the part of the sheriff's deputies, and nothing dissuaded them from
brutalizing the suspects. To me, it's a scandal. A disgrace."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story on Page 8A: Minnesota Latinos also report harassment

GRAPHIC: Photo: KCAL TV
In this image taken from a Los Angeles television station, a sheriff's deputy
is seen hitting a suspected illegal immigrant with his baton after a 70-mile
pursuit Monday that started in Riverside County and ended in South El MOnte,
Calif.

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   April 4, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

MEXICO CAUTIOUS ABOUT RESPONSE TO BEATING;
DEPENDENCE ON U.S. AID, OWN RIGHTS RECORD MUTE ANGRY REACTION

BYLINE: BYLINE: Esther Schrader, KNIGHT-RIDDER FOREIGN SERVICE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Despite Mexican officials' outcry over the police beating of illegal immigrants
in Riverside County, Calif., analysts agree their government is too weak and
vulnerable to jeopardize its rocky relationship with the United States.

"Mexico has become increasingly vulnerable, and especially now, in an election
year, Mexico can't risk becoming a very visceral part of the U.S. (presidential)
campaign," said Mexico City political scientist Denise Dresser, referring to
Mexico's emergency economic aid from the Clinton administration.

Since the beatings were broadcast Tuesday, both the Mexican consul in Los
Angeles and the Mexican foreign secretariat have denounced them. Late Tuesday
the Chamber of Deputies passed a resolution demanding "punishment and full
application of the law against those responsible for not respecting the rights
of the Mexicans involved."

Although the Foreign Relations Department expressed "profound concern" that the
beatings could affect relations, Mexican officials have stopped short of
censuring anyone beyond the two sheriff's deputies involved.

With the Mexican economy struggling to climb out of a 15-month crisis and its
future dependent on U.S. investors and government loans, analysts say Mexico
cannot take a stronger stance and risk angering the U.S. administration that
helped bail it out of its current crisis.

Nor is Mexico in any position to condemn the United States for abuse of illegal
immigrants, given its own dismal human rights record toward immigrants on its
soil, analysts pointed out.

"The truth is that Mexicans treat immigrants from Central America a lot worse,"
said Pedro Enrique Armendares, a historian and special assignments reporter for
La Jornada, a major Mexico City newspaper.

In Riverside, Calif., meanwhile, Sheriff Larry Smith said he was shocked by the
videotape. "There will be no cover-up," Smith said Wednesday.

This report includes information from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    April 14, 1996 Sunday MINNESOTA EDITION

SENATE IMMIGRATION DEBATE SET

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 142 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate this week takes up legislation seeking to stem the tide of illegal
immigration that sweeps 300,000 to 400,000 undocumented aliens into the United
States each year. There's little dissent in Congress over the broad parameters
of changing policies dealing with illegal immigration, though flare-ups have
occurred over the prickly questions of national identification cards, employment
eligibility verification systems and the denial of benefits to illegal
immigrants and their children. It's in the arena of legal immigration that the
debate gets most fractious, with a fault line running through Congress that
can't be explained by party affiliation or geography. The Senate Judiciary
Committee last month voted to split into two bills the massive immigration
package authored by immigration subcommittee chairman Alan Simpson, R-Wyo.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   May 23, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

ALIENS FOUND IN HORSE TRAILER

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 102 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Thirty-four illegal immigrants from Mexico spent three days crammed into a horse
trailer before being freed by authorities early Wednesday. The driver was found
sleeping at a motel nearby. The trailer was 8 by 20 feet, said officials of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "There wasn't enough room for those 34
people to sit down at the same time," said INS spokesman Fred Alexander. The
driver of the truck that was pulling the trailer was charged with alien
smuggling. The Mexicans told INS agents they got in the trailer at the border in
Arizona and had been promised jobs in Atlanta area.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    June 9, 1996 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FOUND DEAD

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Texas


A drought in the Southwest, coupled with an unusually large number of people
trying to enter the United States illegally, have led to more deaths of would-be
immigrants this year than normal. Four illegal immigrants were found dead of
dehydration and heat exhaustion last week after smugglers sent them into the
scorched south Texas brush to walk around border checkpoints, federal and Texas
authorities said. The four, all women between 21 and 38, apparently were members
of different groups who had been smuggled across the border.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   June 20, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

DOLE: CUT IMMIGRANT EDUCATION

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Bob Dole, giving high-profile emphasis to a divisive immigration issue, pushed
Wednesday for congressional approval of veto-threatened legislation to allow
states to bar children of illegal immigrants from public education. "I don't
believe it's fair to impose these burdens on the states," the Republican
presidential nominee asserted as he wrapped up a three-day campaign swing
through California. He accused President Clinton of promising to be tough on
illegal immigration, but failing to follow through.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   February 6, 1995 Monday MINNESOTA EDITION

ARIZONA-MEXICO BORDER TO BE PATROLLED ON CLINTON'S ORDERS

SECTION: MAIN; Monday Briefing; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 123 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton ordered 62 border patrol agents to Arizona on Sunday to combat
an increase in illegal border crossings that the White House attributed partly
to the peso's collapse. Press Secretary Mike McCurry said the agents will report
to work Tuesday, increasing the border forces at Nogales, Ariz., by 17 percent.
He said the administration had been training 100 new patrol agents for Arizona
in anticipation of increased crossings there, stemming from border crackdowns in
California and Texas. "But illegal crossings increased so dramatically in
January in the wake of the peso devaluation that more agents are needed now,"
McCurry said. Clinton's rescue package for Mexico should ease pressure on the
border, he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   February 17, 1995 Friday MINNESOTA EDITION

MEXICO VOWS TO BEEF UP BORDERS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 86 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Mexico has promised measures to help curb violence and crime along its border
with the United States, the State Department said. The Clinton administration
has been concerned about a sharp increase in illegal migration from Mexico
following the devaluation of the peso in December. Mexico pledged to expand a
law enforcement effort aimed at curtailing criminal trafficking in migrants. It
also promised to deploy sufficient personnel and equipment to ensure the safe
operation of border bridges and crossings.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   March 27, 1995 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

FREEDOM URGED FOR AMERICANS IN IRAQ;
POLAND WILL 'SPARE NO EFFORT' FOR MEN'S RELEASE

BYLINE: BYLINE: Eileenalt Powell, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq


The head of the U.S. interest section in Baghdad urged Iraq to free two
Americans convicted of illegally entering the country, and he insisted on his
right to visit them in prison in the meantime.

The men are "absolutely innocent," Polish diplomat Ryszard Krystosik asserted in
an exclusive interview with Associated Press Television. Poland represents the
United States in dealings with the Iraqi government.

Krystosik said his office "will spare no effort to have their release."

Iraq was silent Sunday on the eight-year prison sentences imposed on the two
men, but Iraqi media carried a barrage of criticism of the United States.

U.S. officials fear that Iraq will view the Americans as bargaining chips in its
campaign to end crippling U.N. economic sanctions. The United States insists
that the issues are separate, and officials have said they are working hard to
gain the men's release.

David Daliberti, 41, of Jacksonville, Fla., and William Barloon, 39, of New
Hampton, Iowa, were detained by Iraqi police March 13 after inadvertently
crossing the border from Kuwait. Western officials say the men, employees of
defense contractors in Kuwait, were trying to visit a friend in the U.N. force
that monitors the frontier.

Barloon's wife, Linda, in an interview with the Associated Press in Kuwait, also
called on Iraq to release the men.

Linda Barloon, 37, said their three children "question why their father is being
held as a criminal" when his detention was the result of a series of mistakes.

"I'm praying they keep the strength up to deal with it," she said.

Before Saturday's court decision, Iraqi officials had linked the Americans'
detention to the severe hardships facing Iraq's 18 million people because of the
U.N. sanctions, which bar Baghdad from selling oil, its economic mainstay.

The United States and Britain have blocked efforts to lift the sanctions,
insisting Iraq must comply fully with U.N. Security Council resolutions,
including dismantling its weapons programs.

Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz on Sunday rejected a new U.S.-backed proposal
that would allow Iraq to sell $4 billion worth of oil annually. Iraq would be
permitted to spend half the money on food and medicine, but 30 percent would be
earmarked for war reparations to Kuwait and 20 percent for U.N. humanitarian
work with Iraqi Kurds.

"This new American project is nothing but a maneuver to deceive international
opinion and prolong the embargo," Aziz said in a statement, the official Iraqi
News Agency reported.

The Babil newspaper, published by Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's eldest son Odai,
on Sunday blasted what it termed a U.S. foreign policy "based ...on the insight
of a cowboy looking out for his own narrow interests."

It repeated Iraq's contention that America wants to prevent Iraq from selling
oil as long as possible so that U.S. allies can market more of their own.

Iraq insists it has complied with resolutions laid down in the 1991 Gulf War
cease-fire. The United States maintains Iraq still hides information about its
weaponry.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   April 28, 1995 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

62 ARRESTED IN INS SWEEP

SECTION: METRO; Regional Briefing; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 180 words


Sixty-two people suspected of being illegal aliens have been arrested this week
in Minnesota for allegedly having false documents, identification cards and
employment records.

Thirty-seven people were arrested at Iowa Beef Processors in Luverne, five at
Luverne residences, 10 in Worthington, eight in Marshall and two at the
Minneapolis Convention Center, said Mark Cangemi, head investigator with the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Bloomington.

Two others were arrested in Grand Forks, N.D., and 20 were arrested in Nebraska,
Cangemi said.

The investigation began when a person who was working at IBP in Luverne was
arrested in Worthington, Cangemi said. A routine check of the individual's
documentation, which had been used to gain employment at IBP, showed
discrepancies, he said.

IBP cooperated with the investigation and a complete audit of the company's
employment eligibility records was completed.

Cangemi said a majority of those arrested will be flown from Sioux Falls, S.D.,
to Denver, where they will be processed for deportation.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  January 15, 1996 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

UNFRIENDLY BORDER UNNEIGHBORLY

SECTION: MAIN; Monday Briefing; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Mexican leaders on Sunday criticized U.S. plans to increase border enforcement
against illegal immigration from Mexico, calling them unneighborly. Relations
between the two countries could deteriorate as a result of the U.S. initiative,
said Antonio Garcia Sanchez, the government human rights official in Baja
California state. Mexico expressed serious concern late Friday about reports the
United States may include military forces in patrolling the border.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  March 30, 1996 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL ALIENS RIOT IN CALIFORNIA

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: MIRAMAR NAVAL AIR STATION, Calif.


Illegal immigrants jailed in a Navy brig started a fire and rioted Friday
afternoon, the military said. Several injured inmates were taken to Scripps
Hospital in La Jolla, said Marine Staff Sgt. Arnold Patterson. San Diego police
were called to the hospital because the inmates were causing a disturbance, he
said. No details on the number injured or the hospital disturbance were
available.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  April 27, 1996 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL ALIENS KILLED IN CRASH

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 72 words

DATELINE: ALPINE, Calif.


A van packed with nearly two dozen people crashed near an immigration checkpoint
Friday, killing two passengers and injuring 19 others, authorities said.
Officials said the van went out of control and flipped over several times when
the driver tried to ram a Border Patrol vehicle. One of the injured was reported
in critical condition. The California Highway Patrol said the van's passengers
appeared to be illegal aliens.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    May 10, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SUES OVER BEATING

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 86 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


One of two illegal immigrants whose clubbing by sheriff's deputies was captured
on videotape filed suit in federal and state courts on Thursday, claiming the
deputies used excessive force and violated his civil rights. Enrique Funes
Flores appeared at a news conference with his right arm in a cast and his right
leg wrapped in a brace. He called the April 1 beating "a terrible ordeal." The
beatings took place after a pickup truck crammed with illegal immigrants led
authorities on an 80-mile freeway chase.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    March 8, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL REVISED

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Alan Simpson, accusing businesses of distortion, said Thursday he will drop
from his immigration bill all provisions on the legal immigration of skilled
workers.

"I was working with the business community ... to address their concerns," said
Simpson, who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee.
"Each time we resolved one, they became more creative, more novel."

The business community "distorted everything we were up to, everything,"
Simpson, R-Wyo., told the committee. "I thought we could give them an advantage
... saving them some bucks."

Some of the country's most powerful and fastest-growing companies have
criticized provisions authored by Simpson, a congressional leader on immigration
law for the past 17 years.

The provisions would force would-be employers of skilled foreign workers to
demonstrate they tried to recruit U.S. workers first and to pay a fee into a
scholarship fund for American students.

Employers also would be barred from laying off U.S. workers at the same time
they petitioned the government to bring in foreign workers.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: congress immigration

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 August 16, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

2 OF MERVYN'S VENDORS DID BUSINESS WITH SWEATSHOP

BYLINE: BYLINE: Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 748 words


Dayton Hudson officials said Tuesday that the company's Mervyn's subsidiary
bought garments from two vendors on the list of suppliers that did business with
a garment sweatshop that employed captive immigrant workers in shocking
conditions.

The contracts have been severed and the vendors' merchandise pulled from the
stores, said Gail Dorn, a Dayton Hudson spokeswoman. She did not know if any of
the merchandise pulled was made in the sweatshop.

Dayton Hudson was one of 18 retailers and 14 manufacturers who may have received
merchandise made by the illegal immigrants, according to Labor Secretary Robert
Reich. California officials subpoenaed some of the nation's top department
stores, including Dayton Hudson, as part of an $11.6 million lawsuit against a
makeshift factory operated by SK Fashions in El Monte, Calif., a town east of
Los Angeles.

"It is clear from our investigation that this merchandise found its way onto the
racks and shelves of some of this nation's most prominent retailers," Reich said
in a statement.

The garments were produced by about 60 Thai workers who the government said
toiled up to 22 hours a day "under slave-labor conditions" in an apartment
compound surrounded by razor wire. Many of the illegal immigrants working in the
squalid El Monte shop had been employed there for as long as seven years,
working day and night for $1.60 an hour, according to the Labor Department.
Several told federal investigators they weren't allowed to leave the compound
even after they repaid the cost of being transported from Thailand.

"The workers were threatened with rape or murder if they tried to flee the
compound," said a statement from the Labor department.

Last week, Montgomery Ward sued New Boys, claiming it had damaged the retailer's
reputation by buying garments from the sweatshop. Montgomery Ward said it was
unaware of the conditions and would stop selling the merchandise, shirts sold
under the label "Airtime."

New Boys was also one of the Mervyn's suppliers, Dorn said. Dorn said her
company is still investigating the situation and has not yet filed any similar
lawsuits. According to a list of labels found in the El Monte sweatshop, two
labels connected with Dayton Hudson are "Sostanza Maternity" and "Axle."

Dorn said her company is checking to see if other Dayton Hudson units besides
Mervyn's are doing business with the manufacturers. All Dayton Hudson vendors
must sign a contract stating they will not use slave, prison or child labor and
that a violation of this contract would result in immediate termination of the
business agreement, the company said.

Other prominent retailers that were asked for details on their dealings with the
garment factory, as part of a California Department of Industrial Relations
probe, include Neiman Marcus Group Inc., Victoria's Secret and Montgomery Ward.

Any clothing maker or retailer that contracts with an unregistered garment maker
may be held jointly liable for any unpaid wages and penalties under California
law, state officials said.

Most department stores contacted denied knowledge of the sweatshop, the Labor
Department said. The retailers are also being asked to assist investigators in
the probe.

"Although the service of subpoenas does not in itself indicate that the
manufacturers have committed any illegal acts, they do allow us to build a paper
trail to determine which manufacturers and contractors have contracted" with the
sweatshop, said Victoria Bradshaw, state labor commissioner.

The labor standards division of the state agency also subpoenaed other
companies, including Bum International Inc., Bigi Inc., Ego Sportswear Inc.,
Meridian Products Inc., First/Phillip Lawrence and Hub Distributing Inc.

Last week, the agency requested information from Mervyn's and Montgomery Ward.

The subpoenas come almost two weeks after state and federal agents raided seven
apartments in El Monte, where they detained more than 70 undocumented workers
from Thailand.

Six Thai nationals suspected of running the operation were charged with
harboring illegal immigrants after a raid by federal and state agents last week.
Two others were charged with smuggling immigrants. The charges carry a maximum
penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

Many of the retailers have agreed to attend a meeting next month in Washington
to find "ways to protect the industry, workers and consumers from abusive
contractors," Reich said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   April 15, 1996 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

STUDY SAYS LAW ALLOWS FAR TOO MANY FOREIGNERS TO FILL HIGH-SKILL U.S. JOBS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Laura Myers, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A program that lets hundreds of thousands of foreigners temporarily fill unique,
high-skill U.S. jobs is lowering wages and pushing out American workers, says a
draft government audit.

Instead of providing U.S. businesses a boost to better compete globally, the
program has become a "rubber stamp" for both skilled and unskilled aliens
seeking to live and work in America, said the report.

"The program has become a stepping stone to obtain permanent resident status not
only for the 'best and brightest' specialists but also for students, relatives
and friends," said the audit for the Labor Department.

A draft of the inspector general's audit, which recommends the Labor Department
eliminate its $50 million-a-year foreign worker visa programs.

Labor Secretary Robert Reich said he hoped Congress would make major changes in
the foreign worker program when immigration legislation comes up this week.

Many Republicans and American businesses, especially within high-tech
industries, want to retain the program as a way to fill jobs quickly. But
critics charge that foreigners use the visa program to gain back-door admittance
to the United States and hurt U.S. wages and job opportunities for Americans by
a general willingness to work for lower wages.

The audit said the program "allows aliens to immigrate based on ... attachment
to a specific job and then shop their services in competition with equally or
more qualified U.S. workers without regard to prevailing wage."

As for the law's provision that businesses must first seek a qualified U.S.
worker before hiring an alien, the audit said that in most cases the job "market
test is perfunctory at best and a sham at worst."

The audit found that ads for 24,150 jobs brought 165,000 foreign and U.S.
applicants, but in more than 99 percent of those hired were foreigners. Other
findings:

10 percent of the aliens in the program were treated as contractors, which means
no payroll or administrative costs for businesses.

12.7 percent were paid below the advertised prevailing wage.

74.6 percent worked for employers who did not adequately document their wages.

"Some ...employers use alien labor to reduce payroll costs, either by paying
less than prevailing wage to their own alien employees, illegally treating these
aliens as independent contractors ...or contracting with 'job shop' employers to
provide contract labor," the audit said. The audit reviewed the Labor
Department's Permanent Labor Certification (PLC) and temporary H-1B Labor
Condition Application (LCA) programs from Oct. 1, 1992 through Sept. 30, 1993.

Reich said the Clinton administration wants to charge fees to businesses
importing foreign workers to build a fund to pay for better training of U.S.
workers.

Reich also proposed:

Limiting the program to employers who have not laid off U.S. workers in the
periods preceding and following an application for foreign workers.

Allowing into the program only companies that have taken steps to recruit U.S.
workers.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   May 3, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

CHINESE IMMIGRATION RISING

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 50 words


Smuggling of Chinese immigrants into the United States is on the rise again,
with at least 10 vessels bearing human cargoes now approaching America's shores,
a senior U.S. diplomat said Tuesday. Within the past two months, the U.S. Coast
Guard has intercepted two ships with 212 Chinese aboard.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   July 22, 1995 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

DETENTION CENTER LOSES CONTRACT

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 72 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The private operator of an Elizabeth, N.J., immigration detention center - where
inmates rioted last month - will lose its contract to run the site after
investigators found guards abusing detainees and stealing from them. The
announcement Friday by the Immigration and Naturalization Service accompanied
its report criticizing Esmor Corp. for failing to provide information about its
operations to INS' Newark district office.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   May 27, 1995 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

NEW ASYLUM GUIDELINES RECOGNIZE GRAVITY OF SEXUAL VIOLENCE CLAIMS

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 300 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration issued new guidelines Friday to immigration officers
to help them identify women who should be granted asylum in this country because
sexual violence has been used for political persecution in their homeland.

By issuing the guidelines, the United States joined the United Nations and
Canada in recognizing that women may experience gender-based discrimination that
in some cases rises to the level necessary for refugee status, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service said.

The new guidelines "educate asylum officers about gender-based discrimination
and provide them with procedures and methods for evaluating whether individual
claims meet the refugee standard," said Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris Meissner.

U.S. law says asylum or refugee status can be granted only to those who show a
well-founded fear that returning home would subject them to persecution on
account of their race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social
group or their political opinions.

Harvard Law School instructor Nancy Kelly, who coordinates the school's Women
Refugees Project, hailed the guidelines, along with a recent decision by the
U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals, as "a major breakthrough for the recognition
of asylum claims for women."

The immigration service said the new guidelines were based on a proposed set of
guidelines submitted by Kelly's project last year and on those issued by Canada
in 1993 and by the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees.

The guidelines "recognize the need for more sensitive and thorough interviews of
women asylum applicants, many of whom suffer psychological and physical trauma
from their experiences of rape and other forms of sexual violence," Kelly's
project said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    July 28, 1995 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

U.S. SEEKS TO EXPEL ALLEGED TERRORIST;
HAMAS LEADER HELD ON RE-ENTRY AS FBI WORKS TO BUILD CASE

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. government moved Thursday to throw a leader of the militant Palestinian
group Hamas out of the country on grounds he participated in terrorist activity.

Mousa Abu Marzuk, 45, head of the political bureau of Hamas, which opposes the
Israeli-PLO peace process, has a U.S. permanent resident alien visa but was
stopped as he re-entered this country Tuesday. He has been detained in New York
since then.

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokeswoman Carole Florman said the
government filed papers in New York late Thursday afternoon seeking a hearing
before an immigration judge to permanently bar Marzuk from the country.

"We are saying this is someone inadmissible to the United States based on his
participation in terrorist activities," Florman said.

No date has been set for the hearing; Marzuk will remain in custody until it is
concluded, she said.

Marzuk was stopped at New York's Kennedy airport Tuesday afternoon because "he
was on our terrorist lookout database," Florman said.

A team of FBI agents has been working to establish that Marzuk concealed or
misrepresented membership in a terrorist organization and that he is a key
figure in terrorist activity, according to a source familiar with the case, who
spoke on condition of anonymity.

If either allegation is proved, an immigration judge could revoke the permanent
resident alien visa, known as a green card, that Florman said Marzuk won in 1990
in the annual U.S. government lottery of visas for regions under-represented in
the normal visa process.

An Israeli official, who demanded anonymity, said Marzuk was one of a handful of
top Hamas leaders who personally orchestrated terrorist activity against Israel.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  August 12, 1995 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

INS ARRESTS ALLEGED TERRORIST;
SUSPECT SOUGHT IN INDIA TOOK PLANE TO TWIN CITIES

BYLINE: BYLINE: David Hanners, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1G

LENGTH: 599 words


Immigration officials said Friday that they plan to deport a man reputed to be
one of India's most sought-after Sikh terrorists, who was arrested last week at
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport.

Daya Singh Sandhu, 33, was arrested by agents of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service on Aug. 3, shortly after he got off a morning flight from
Newark, N.J.

Sandhu, who was traveling under an assumed name, was arrested without incident,
INS officials said. Also arrested were his wife, Kamaljeet Kaur, 25, and Pinder
Brar, 32, who is described by the INS as an Indian national living in Canada.

A 6-year-old boy traveling with Sandhu and Kaur was placed in "protective
custody," said Dean Hove, the INS' acting district director.

"We think he (Sandhu) came into this country in order to effect entry into
Canada for some reason," said Hove. "They must've considered it an easier way to
enter Canada: to enter the U.S. first."

Just why Sandhu was going to Canada, however, remains a mystery, said Sgt. James
Stinson of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in Winnipeg, who was involved in
the investigation.

"Only one person could tell you (why), and that would be him," Stinson said of
Sandhu.

Sandhu was being held without bond pending a deportation hearing. Kaur was being
held on $50,000 bond, and Hove said security concerns prohibited him from saying
where the two were being held.

After a court hearing in Minneapolis Thursday, Brar was ordered moved to North
Dakota to face criminal charges there.

Hove said the INS waited a week to announce the arrest because the agency wanted
to make sure Sandhu was whom they suspected, and whether the Indian government
actually wanted him.

It does. According to the Indian Embassy in Washington, Sandhu is a Sikh
terrorist wanted in India for a number of crimes. One of them is a September
1993 car bombing in New Delhi that killed eight people and injured 36 others.

The man said to be the target of the blast, Maninder Singh Bitta, was president
of the governing Congress Party's youth wing. He was not killed by the
remote-control car bomb, but two of his bodyguards were among the dead.

Sikh separatists seek to create a new nation called Khalistan in the rich
northern agricultural state of Punjab. Since the mid-1980s, thousands have died
in the civil strife.

"Khalistan" means Land of the Pure.

Embassy officials said Sandhu was the leader of the Khalistan Liberation Force,
and he is suspected of having been involved in political kidnappings and arms
trafficking in India.

In a news release, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said Sundhu's arrest in St.
Paul "exposes the stark reality of terrorism."

But it also shows that sometimes, law enforcement simply lucks out. Sandhu's
arrest stemmed not from a U.S. investigation into terrorism, but rather from an
RCMP investigation into alien smuggling, said Sgt. Stinson.

"We just had an ongoing investigation here concerning another matter, concerning
one of the other people who was arrested," Stinson said of Brar.

The information, he said, was passed along to the U.S. Border Patrol, "and they
ran with the ball and lo and behold, look who they came up with," said Stinson.
"They just got lucky that the person is an alleged terrorist."

Hove said the INS investigation shows Sandhu, Kaur and the child arrived in New
York from London on July 6. They allegedly entered the country using bogus
immigration papers.

They remained in the New York area until Aug. 3, when they took an early
Continental Airlines flight to the Twin Cities.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 August 23, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

ANTI-FOREIGNER SENTIMENT WORRIES IMMIGRANTS, EXPERTS;
FORUM WILL ADDRESS LAWMAKERS' PLANS TO DEAL WITH ISSUE

BYLINE: BYLINE: Julio Ojeda-Zapata, Staff Writer, A community meeting on
immigration issues will be held from 6 to 8 p.m. today, at Guadalupe Church, 401
Concord St., on St. Paul's West Side. Spanish and, Hmong translators will be
available.

SECTION: METRO; ST. PAUL; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 409 words


As a wave of anti-immigrant sentiment sweeps through the nation's Capitol, local
immigration experts are urging foreign-born Minnesotans to educate themselves
about how pending and proposed legislation could affect them and their families.

To jump-start this process, attorneys and immigrant advocates will hold a
community forum in St. Paul today to discuss recent developments pertaining to
legal immigration.

The meeting is intended for recent arrivals to the United States, but all are
welcome, said Pete Rode, research director for the Twin Cities-based Urban
Coalition.

"There are proposals in Congress that will hurt legal immigrants," Rode said.
"The backers of such proposals are counting on apathy and ignorance to push
their proposals through. We want to educate immigrants as well as the general
public."

Recent developments that have local immigrant advocates so concerned include:

Proposed House legislation that would cut legal immigration by 30 percent. The
proposal would set an annual ceiling of 330,000 family-sponsored immigrants and
eliminate visa eligibility for brothers, sisters and adult children of citizens.

A proposal by a Senate immigration subcommittee to deny public benefits to
illegal residents.

Recommendations of a bipartisan commission that would sharply trim legal
immigration. For instance, the allotment of visas for reuniting the families of
citizens and legal immigrants would be cut by one-fifth.

Immigration advocates see these and other trends as part of an "anti-immigrant
hysteria" in the halls of government.

Longtime efforts to crack down on illegal immigrants now are being expanded to
include legal immigrants amid continuing economic troubles in the United States,
said state Rep. Carlos Mariani, who represents St. Paul's heavily Hispanic West
Side.

"These proposals are driven by politicians who are looking to advance themselves
with issues that prey on people's fears," Mariani said. "Their proposals imply
that the country is going to ruin because of a bunch of immigrants."

Such attitudes are increasingly prevalent in places like California but are less
widespread in Minnesota, where only about 113,000 residents are foreign-born,
Rode said.

Still, immigration issues are important to Southeast-Asian immigrants who yearn
to be reunited with relatives who are still abroad, and to many Hispanic
residents on the West Side and elsewhere who have strong ties to Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 November 4, 1995 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION RESTRICTIONS ARE PROPOSED IN SENATE;
SPONSOR SAYS AIM OF BILL IS TO PROTECT JOBS FOR AMERICANS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Cassandra Burrell, Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of nonrefugee immigrants allowed in the United States would fall at
least 20 percent under a bill introduced Friday by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo.

During a speech on the Senate floor, Simpson said he wrote the bill in response
to concerns that too many foreigners are coming to America, competing with U.S.
workers for jobs and overcrowding some areas of the country.

"It is time to slow down, to reassess, to make certain we are assimilating well
the extraordinary level of immigration the country has been experiencing in
recent years," Simpson said.

Last year, 804,416 immigrants, including refugees and foreigners seeking asylum,
entered the United States legally.

A similar bill awaiting a vote on the House floor would cut the annual total to
595,000 by 2001.

During committee work on the House bill, Democrats repeatedly questioned the
need to cut legal immigration, but generally were unsuccessful in getting
Republicans to back down.

Simpson said his bill would reduce the number of immigrants who come here to
fill jobs from the 123,291 who entered last year to 90,000. Foreigners with
special knowledge or experience are allowed to come here if their skills are
needed by U.S. companies.

Under the Simpson plan, immigration applications from foreigners with no jobs
skills would be rejected.

The number of immigrant visas going to foreigners wanting to join relatives in
the United States would fall to 540,000. About 150,000 of those visas would go
to reduce the backlog of 1.1 million spouses and unmarried minor children who
have been put on waiting lists in pervious years.

In 1993, nearly 462,000 immigrants entered the country under the sponsorship of
U.S. relatives. They included the adult children and siblings of U.S. residents,
categories of immigrants that would be eliminated under Simpson's bill.

An unlimited number of visas would continue to be available to spouses and minor
children of U.S. citizens, however. Parents 65 or older would be allowed to
immigrate if a majority of their children lived in the United States.

The number of minor children and spouses of aliens granted permanent residency
here would be capped at 85,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  December 10, 1995 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

THREAT OF AID LOSS PROMPTS ALIENS TO SEEK CITIZENSHIP;
NEW LEGISLATION WOULD CUT BENEFITS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Jere Downes and Suzanne Sataline, Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA


Citizenship has become a hot commodity.

As Congress weighs tough new legislation that would severely limit government
aid available to legal immigrants, many of those who now enjoy benefits are
pressing to become citizens.

"The people I see are scared," said Cherylle Corpuz, a lawyer who counsels
low-income immigrants. "They are desperate."

Under existing law, legal immigrants may apply for public benefits, including
welfare, food stamps, Social Security disability benefits and Medicaid.

But legislation in Congress would deny or severely restrict those benefits for
people who are not U.S. citizens, even for legal immigrants who have worked in
this country for years.

Many of the changes are contained in the massive welfare bill that has passed
out of a House-Senate conference committee and is heading to President Clinton's
desk.

The impetus for the effort, Republicans say, is saving money. The changes in the
welfare bill would save an estimated $81.5 billion, according to the House Ways
and Means Committee.

"The bottom line here is American taxpayers are not running the retirement
system for the rest of the world," said Allen Kay, spokesman for Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House subcommittee on immigration and chief
sponsor of an immigration-overhaul bill.

Kay said Social Security benefit applications by legal immigrants have increased
580 percent the past 10 years. Applications from U.S. citizens have increased 48
percent during the same period.

"Obviously there is a problem," Kay said. "Immigrants gain admission for their
parents and immediately dump them into the American welfare system."

Eight years ago, Liviya Nizovskaye left Moscow for the United States. She now
lives in an enclave of Russian immigrants in northeast Philadelphia.

The 59-year-old legal immigrant buys Russian food at neighborhood stores, reads
local Russian newspapers, and hangs out with expatriate Soviet Jews at a nearby
community center. Unemployed, she gets by on welfare benefits and food stamps.
Nizovskaye recently learned through a Russian-language news source that there
was a move to take away her benefits. So she has been studying to take the
required test for citizenship. And, six months ago, she decided to learn
English.

"I am sick right now," said Nizovskaye, who says she suffers from migraine
headaches and debilitating leg pain. "Nobody would hire me, so I do what I need
to for survival."

Nizovskaye looks into her lap when asked to respond to critics who contend that
taxpayers should not have to foot the bill for her expenses.

"It is a difficult question," she said. "I came here to be with my family, to
watch my grandchildren grow up. I didn't want to be left alone in Russia."

Neither her brother, who lives nearby, nor her son, an electrical engineer who
lives in Dallas, can support her, she said.

"If I even have to support her, I can't," said her son, Alexander Nizovskaye,
31. "I would have to take food from my children. I don't know what the answer
is."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  January 28, 1996 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

SPEECH SPOTLIGHTS IMMIGRANTS' FEARS ABOUT FUTURE

BYLINE: BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 561 words


J.D. Hokoyama believes the current anti-immigration sentiment in Congress is
being fueled by xenophobia and racism.

Because U.S. immigration policy has historically favored Europeans, he said, the
large influx of Asians and Latinos since the 1970s has provoked a backlash that
is being exploited in Congress.

Hokoyama also said that calls for a crackdown on illegal immigration have given
members of Congress the political cover they need for curtailing legal arrivals.

Hokoyama, a Japanese-American who leads a Los Angeles group lobbying against
cuts in legal immigration, spoke Saturday to several hundred Asian-Americans in
St. Paul who attended a workshop.

"The community is mobilizing a coalition of groups from around the country,"
Hokoyama, president of the nonprofit Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics
Inc., said in an interview.

Asian-Americans need to do a better job of "letting our congressional
representatives know what our view is," Hokoyama said. "One of our problems is
we've become (politically) invisible."

The workshop at Como Park High School offered information about the status of
proposed legislation, how to qualify for U.S. citizenship and how to register to
vote. More than a dozen Asian-American groups in Minnesota sponsored the event.

Asian-Americans and others say two pieces of legislation currently alive in
Congress would devastate many families if passed into law.

One is a bill sponsored by U.S. Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyoming. Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, is offering the other, a companion piece of sorts, in the House.
Simpson and Smith say that America needs time to assimilate recent immigrants
before continuing to accept large numbers in the future.

Under one or both proposals:

*Legal immigration would be cut by about 30 percent and capped at 700,000 new
arrivals each year.

*U.S. residents would no longer be able to sponsor some types of foreign
relatives for immigration to America. Cut from eligibility lists would be
so-called "extended" family members - parents, grandparents, adult children and
siblings. Admission of ' immediate family members from abroad - spouses and
children who are minors - would continue.

*Eligibility for many types of public assistance - welfare, food stamps, Social
Security disability benefits and Medicaid - would be denied to non-U.S.
citizens. That would save taxpayers "billions of dollars each year," according
to estimates provided by Rep. Smith's staff.

The proposed legislation has triggered a spate of conflicting studies over
whether immigration is harmful or beneficial, and whether immigrants spark or
drag the economy. Saturday's gathering was populated by many immigrants - Hmong,
Vietnamese and others - who believe that a robust level of immigration is
healthy.

Hokoyama said the legislation would create a "two-tiered" citizenry by denying
legal residents the financial benefits offered to native-born Americans.

Lee Pao Xiong, executive director of the Council on Asian-Pacific Minnesotans,
said restrictions on the admission of foreign relatives would be devastating to
Asian-Americans, who tend to place a greater emphasis on "extended" family
relationships than many non-Asians.

"That would tear us apart even more," Xiong said.

Hokoyama concurred: "For many Asians, the whole support system comes from
extended families."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
J.D. Hokoyama
Photo: Scott Takushi, Pioneer Press
Eva Margolis performs a traditional sword dance at Como Park Senior High
School on Saturday at the Immigration Workshop and Celebration, which raised
awareness of immigration history and policy in Asian-American society.

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   March 15, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

EFFORT TO STEM FLOW OF LEGAL IMMIGRANTS IS CAST IN DOUBT;
NUMBER OF VISAS IS AT CORE OF DEBATE

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate Judiciary Committee decided Thursday to split an immigration overhaul
bill in two - a move that could kill a proposal to reduce the flow of legal
immigrants into the United States.

Committee members voted 12-6 to separate measures that get tough with illegal
aliens from a more controversial plan that would reduce the number of
immigration visas handed out each year.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., told reporters the split would make it tougher
for senators to pass Sen. Alan Simpson's plan to revamp the nation's legal
immigration system.

"Not having one bill does weaken our chances," said Feinstein, who supports the
proposal.

Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., who doesn't want to see legal immigration
reduced, said he lobbied committee members for the split because the two issues
don't belong in one bill. He said he was afraid strong emotional support for
cracking down on illegal immigrants would lead to an unfair backlash against
legal immigrants.

"We're talking here about people who want to come and make a constructive
contribution and play by the rules, and I think that should be dealt with
separately," he said.

After days of fighting the proposal to split, Simpson, author of the bill,
insisted it would make no difference as long as the committee fully debated both
issues before deciding whether to send them to the Senate floor for a vote.

"We're going to have a full hearing ...and then we'll go to the floor," said
Simpson, R-Wyo.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., plans to offer a compromise amendment that would
cut immigration, but not as deeply as Simpson's would, and be consistent with
Simpson's goal of making it easier for foreign spouses and minor children of
American relatives to reunite in the United States.

Floor debate could begin as early as mid-April, Simpson said. The House is
scheduled to begin debate on a similar bill next week.

Under the Simpson plan, the number of nonrefugee visas going to foreigners
wanting to join relatives in the United States would fall to about 390,000.
About 150,000 more would go to reduce the backlog of 1.1 million spouses and
unmarried minor children who were put on wait lists in previous years.

Nearly 462,000 immigrants entered the country under the sponsorship of U.S.
relatives in 1993, the latest figures available. However, that number included
the adult children and siblings of U.S. residents, categories of immigrants
Simpson wants to eliminate.

An unlimited number of visas would continue to be available to spouses and minor
children of U.S. citizens. Parents 65 or older would be allowed to immigrate if
most of their children live in the United States and if they have prepurchased
health insurance.

The number of minor children and spouses of aliens granted permanent residency
here would be capped at 85,000.

In 1994, a total of 804,416 immigrants, including refugees and foreigners
seeking asylum, entered the United States legally.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  April 25, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

LEGAL RESIDENCY WILL GO TO 41% MORE FOREIGNERS;
IMMIGRATION FOES ANGRY OVER FORECAST

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Legal immigration will rise dramatically this year, with 41 percent more
foreigners granted residency than in 1995, according to unreleased Immigration
and Naturalization Service projections.

Advocates of reduced immigration are fuming over the projections, charging that
INS must have been aware of them even as it was publicly emphasizing last year's
decrease.

The Clinton administration, which opposes congressional proposals to
substantially cut legal immigration, has contended that it would drop under
existing law.

Just last month, as the House wrestled with the question of whether to tackle
legal immigration changes, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner was pointing to a
10.4 percent drop from 1994 to 1995.

While Congress is expected to enact a new bill cracking down on illegal
immigration, the chances for changes this year in legal immigration policy
appear dim.

"We've all been duped," House immigration subcommittee chairman Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, said Wednesday. "All along they knew what they were saying was not the
whole truth. I take this as an intentional misrepresentation to the public and
to Congress."

The projections show immigration rising from 593,000 last year to 835,000 in
1996. The numbers would peak in 1997, at nearly 854,000, then decline to the
mid-700,000 level and hit 729,000 in 2003, according to the projections.

Those numbers don't reflect total legal immigration because they don't include
refugees, asylum adjustments and a few other types of admissions. Those
categories added up to 127,000 last year - bringing total legal immigration to
720,000 - and those categories are conservatively expected to hover around
100,000 in coming years.

INS executive associate commissioner Robert Bach denied any attempt to mislead
Congress or the public.

Bach said the projections were requested by Senate immigration subcommittee
chairman Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., and the panel's ranking Democrat Edward Kennedy
of Massachusetts. "Nobody asked us from the House," Bach said, when told of
Smith's comments.

He noted that during an appearance last fall before the Senate immigration
subcommittee, Meissner testified that legal immigration was likely to rise
because of increasing naturalizations. "We have been on the record ...for
months," he said.

That notwithstanding, the administration shouldn't have been emphasizing the
declining 1995 rate, said Rosemary Jenks of the Center for Immigration Studies,
which favors reduced immigration.

The decrease was an aberration caused by administrative adjustments to several
programs, one of which caused a huge backlog in residency applications, she and
others said.

The INS acknowledged as much in making the announcement last month. But Meissner
nonetheless proclaimed the declining rates proof "that the nation's legal
immigration policies are changing to meet the realities of the 1990s."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    April 30, 1996 Tuesday MINNESOTA EDITION

TOGO WOMAN HAPPY TO BE FREE

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 105 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Wearing a borrowed dress and a shy smile, a West African teen-ager said Monday
she felt "like a human being again." She was free after 16 months of detention
in an immigration case that could set a precedent for women seeking U.S. asylum
to escape genital mutilation. "I came to the United States for protection, and
instead I received punishment," said Fauziya Kasinga, 19, of Togo, who was
released last week. An immigration appeals board in Virginia is scheduled
Thursday to hear Kasinga's case. A judge denied her asylum, saying he didn't
believe her and didn't consider female genital mutilation a form of persecution.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   January 1, 1995 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

ROOTS FIRMLY PLANTED, THIS 'GREEN CARD' CASE WILL NOT GO QUIETLY

BYLINE: BYLINE: Julio Ojeda-Zapata, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 546 words


Like Gerard Depardieu in the 1991 film "Green Card," Oscar Velazquez entered
into a sham marriage in order to obtain permanent U.S. residency.

In the end, both the fictitious Frenchman the actor portrayed and the real-life
Mexican came clean when confronted by Immigration and Naturalization Service
personnel.

But unlike the Depardieu character, who meekly allows himself to be put on a
plane back to Paris, Velazquez is fighting his scheduled Wednesday deportation
to the bitter end. His allies even plan to picket the INS offices in Bloomington
on Tuesday.

The reason: Velazquez, 33, now has roots and responsibilities in the Twin
Cities. He has married again (this time for real, he insists) and fathered two
children who have known no other home than Plymouth and speak no Spanish.

Velazquez, who arrived in the United States on a tourist visa in 1984, argues
that his family would be economically devastated if he were sent back to Mexico
City. He and his wife calculate that their combined yearly income is barely
$30,000.

"We worked hard to own our home on an acre lot where our children can play,"
Shari Velazquez, 29, said Saturday. "Now, I would be forced to sell my home,
quit my job and go on welfare."

Whether that argument cuts any water, legally speaking, is a subject of debate.

The INS has argued that Velazquez's sham marriage in October 1986 "shows a
callous disregard of the immigration laws without a hint of reformation." That
transgression, the agency said in documents last week, taints any subsequent
pleas for leniency on economic grounds.

Velazquez's attorney, Michael Davis, does not deny his client broke the law.
But, after studying U.S. immigration law, Davis has concluded that his client's
offense is irrelevant.

According to the attorney, Velazquez and other immigrants are eligible to apply
for waivers based on "extreme hardship" even if they violated the requirement
that their marriages to U.S. citizens be "entered into in good faith." To link
both requirements would be "redundant," Davis explained, because no immigrant in
a genuine marriage would ever need to prove economic hardship.

Still, Davis faces an uphill legal battle. The INS seems unimpressed with
Velazquez's claim that he and his family would suffer if he were deported. The
agency described Velazquez and his wife as "presumably healthy" people capable
of making a living north or south of the border.

"The hardship of separation would be due to your own choice, if your family
chooses not to accompany you to Mexico," INS District Director Carl Houseman
wrote.

But Oscar and Shari Velazquez, who married in April 1990, insist that Minnesota
is home.

In Plymouth, the Velazquez children - Rico, 4, and Nicolas, 2 - have a warm
extended family of grandparents, aunts and cousins. No such network exists in
Mexico, as Oscar Velazquez's mother is dead and other relatives are scattered,
Shari Velazquez said.

The Twin Cities also offer better jobs, better hospitals, better schools and air
that is crystal-clear compared to Mexico City's notorious smog, she said.

"The INS is taking three American citizens and putting them into an irreversible
tailspin," she said. "Our thinking is, basically, 'We're good people. Leave us
alone."'

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Alkofer, Pioneer Press
Oscar Velazquez, right, gets some help from his family as he paints posters
protesting INS efforts to have him deported to Mexico. Helping him, from left,
are nephew Teddy Salonek, son Nicolas, 2, wife Shari and son Rico, 4. In the
background are sister-in-law Becky Farniok and father-in-law Jim Libby.

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 January 18, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

U.S.-CUBA IMMIGRATION TALKS SET

SECTION: MAIN; World Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 72 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As the United States and Cuba prepare for immigration talks, newly empowered
congressional Republicans are seeking to tighten the U.S. embargo against the
island. U.S. and Cuban officials will meet today in New York for the third in a
series of talks on immigration issues. The talks have helped stabilize the
immigration situation, which reached crisis proportions last summer when Cubans
fled in droves aboard makeshift vessels.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  February 4, 1995 Saturday MINNESOTA EDITION

BORDER-CROSSING FEE BUDGETED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 83 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Under pressure from border states to curb illegal immigration, the Clinton
administration Monday will propose charging a $1-a-head border-crossing fee to
both foreigners and American citizens, the first such fee in U.S. history. The
fee would raise more than $100 million a year. It undoubtedly will provoke major
conflict with Mexico and Canada, and possibly with the border states themselves,
who have come to depend on easy travel into those countries, U.S. officials
acknowledge.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associated Press
Pfc. Kathryn Morris, left, and Patricia Jackson, the first two women to
graduate from a specialized Marine training school, will graduate next week
into the ranks of a security detail that protects the White House
communications center and Camp David.

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   February 7, 1995 Tuesday MINNESOTA EDITION

U.S. PICKS UP MORE IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 79 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico


Unusually calm seas between the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico have prompted
a stream of immigrants to set sail on the back-door route to the United States.
The U.S. Border Patrol captured a wooden boat carrying 77 Dominicans overnight,
but at least one other vessel made it to Puerto Rico's west coast, authorities
said Monday. More than 500 Dominicans have been captured along the route in the
past three weeks. More than 2,500 have been caught since Oct. 1.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  February 12, 1995 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

DYING WOMAN GETS HER WISH: CITIZENSHIP;
POLISH IMMIGRANT GIVEN CEREMONY AT NURSING HOME

BYLINE: BYLINE: Molly Guthrey, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 564 words


Seventy-year-old Maria Klapoucha from Poland is dying of cancer in a Minneapolis
care center and never thought she would see her dream of becoming an American
citizen come true.

But on Saturday, tears streamed down Klapoucha's face as U.S. District Judge
Richard Kyle officially made her a U.S. citizen in a ceremony at the Walker
Cityview Health Care Center.

The woman's relatives - including her two sons, Tadeusz and Zbigniew Rybarczyk
from Poland - watched tearfully alongside U.S. Sen. Rod Grams and Immigration
and Naturalization Services Regional Director Carl Houseman. The ceremony - a
special session of U.S. District Court - was held at the nursing home because of
Klapoucha's failing health.

Klapoucha and her family feared the swearing-in would never come in time - she
is terminally ill with bone cancer - and were flabbergasted at the help they
received from the staff, government officials and politicians.

"I'm overcome," Klapoucha said later in Polish when her tears had dried, as her
friends and family celebrated with cake. "Now I'll be able to stand up and say I
am an American."

Her church, the Holy Cross Church of Minneapolis, will celebrate her citizenship
today with a special Mass.

The happy day on Saturday came after Klapoucha's family told staff at the care
center about Klapoucha's dream last fall. Grams' office pitched in to help, and
Houseman pushed through the necessary paperwork. Klapoucha first arrived in the
United States in 1981 and became a permanent resident about five years ago, so
she was officially eligible to become a U.S. citizen.

"It brought tears to my eyes," said Maria Stefans, her cousin. "This could only
happen in the United States, nowhere else in the world. This is a dream come
true that we never, never expected would happen like this."

She was born in the Polish village of Tiutkow in eastern Poland to a farming
family. In 1941, when the Soviets took over Poland, some of her relatives were
forced to Siberia. Maria's father was shot and killed by the Soviets and the
family was forced to relocate in western Poland.

She married in 1943 and reared two sons. To support her family, she worked as a
hospital aide; to feed her family, she farmed her land and grew fruits and
vegetables.

Klapoucha came to the United States in 1981 to visit relatives. While she was
visiting, the Communist government declared a state of emergency. Her adult sons
told her it would be dangerous for her to return to the country in turmoil. It
was then that she began dreaming of becoming an American citizen.

She acquired a work permit and began working in a Minneapolis bakery. She grew
to love the United States, her family members said, because of the freedom and
opportunity. She could not quite believe that citizens could openly criticize
the government, that they could travel anywhere they wanted and that they could
become anything they wanted.

Her citizenship ceremony took place in the little chapel of the nursing home as
her friends, family and the staff gathered to watch. Some cried and snapped
pictures as Klapoucha vowed to support and defend the laws of the country. One
of her sons tenderly wiped away her tears with a tissue, and her relatives
kissed her after the ceremony was finished.

"Thank you," she said to the judge quietly.

It was one of the happiest days of her life, she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Klapoucha

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   March 4, 1995 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION CALLED GLOBAL THREAT

SECTION: MAIN; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 72 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Billions of young people are entering their reproductive years, threatening to
worsen economic distress in developing countries and stimulate even greater
immigration, the Population Institute said Friday. "No amount of guns or fences
or soldiers ... will stop the hungry masses of the Southern Hemisphere from
reaching the United States," Werner Fornos said in releasing the report "Moving
On: The Global Migration Phenomenon."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   March 28, 1995 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION CYCLE APPEARS TO BE ENTERING REJECTION PHASE

BYLINE: BYLINE: Brian Bonner and Yee Chang, Staff Writers

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 711 words


They don't speak English well. They stick together. They're different. They talk
endlessly about their homeland.

The Hmong have heard these comments directed derisively at them by other
Americans in the 20 years since they began arriving as refugees. Though the
sentiments contain truth, they also have applied to most new immigrants to
America, from Irish to Italians to Germans.

The Hmong have a lot in common with these immigrants, who also escaped poverty
or persecution. The Hmong fled both in Laos.

"Most immigration to the United States has been from the lower classes of the
society from which they came," says University of Minnesota history professor
Rudolph Vecoli, who also directs the university's Immigration History Research
Center. "The rich and powerful rarely emigrate."

Yet in many ways the Hmong diverge from the typical immigrant experience, making
their adjustment more difficult. Unlike 19th century immigrants moving from one
agricultural society to another, the agricultural Hmong are thrust into a highly
industrialized nation.

"The United States of today is not the United States of 1900," Vecoli says.
"That's a major problem for those without skills or educational background."

And unlike the Irish, German and Italian immigrants, who didn't look much
different than their other European predecessors, the Hmong are Asian and don't
fit the common conception of the acceptable immigrant. "There's an
Anglo-American model: Protestant, white and English-speaking," Vecoli says.

The Hmong also bring a culture that sets them apart from mainstream America and
sometimes even clashes with American laws. Such traditional differences -
acceptance of teen-age marriages and bigamy for men - hinder understanding and
acceptance.

During more than two centuries of immigration, the United States has experienced
cycles of acceptance and rejection for newcomers. Vecoli sees America entering a
new phase of rejection.

So far, this cycle has not translated into a dramatic reduction in the number of
immigrants allowed into the country. However, Vecoli believes immigration policy
will be increasingly skewed toward attracting highly skilled people. That bodes
poorly for the Hmong, who lack many of the skills needed in the United States.

Vecoli says public sentiment toward immigrants hinges on how society answers the
question: "Are they a burden to us in terms of taxes and public services, or are
they an asset?"

The Hmong influx into the United States is likely to slow considerably after
Thailand closes its remaining refugee camps this year and sends their
inhabitants back to Laos.

This interlude will give the new Hmong immigrants time to sort out what they
want to keep about their traditional cultures and what they want to discard. It
will give them a chance to become politically active and try to influence U.S.
foreign policy toward their former homeland, as many other immigrants have.

Among first-generation immigrants, strong feelings persist about back home. As
immigrants have gained power in America, they have influenced U.S. foreign
policy toward their homelands. The Jews, the Irish and the Cubans are all
examples of this.

The Hmong are no exception. While they now have little political clout, bad
feelings persist about the Laotian government's treatment of their relatives
back home. Someday, those feelings may translate into political action. But
unlike large, powerful ethnic groups, the Hmong's numbers are small - 150,000
nationwide - and their clout is weak.

"We would like to see some political changes happening in Laos," says Yang Dao,
a former official with the defeated Royal Lao Government. He now works for the
St. Paul public schools. "The U.S. government should continue to push the Lao
government to change the Hmong situation."

Blia Moua, former director of the Hmong Youth Association of Minnesota, says it
could be difficult to sustain interest in Laos in subsequent American
generations, but it needs to be done.

"Our children are growing up every day and reminding us we are here. We have to
make a life in America," says Moua. "At the same time, many of us still have
parents and brothers and sisters in the refugee camps and in Laos.

"We cannot forget Laos."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Hmong Families//A World Apart

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos: Photos By Scott Takushi, Staff Photographer
1) Nhia Bee Xiong, left, of St. Paul embraces his brother Blia Neng Xiong at
the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. They had not seen each other
in 15 years.
2) Family members wait anxiously at the fence of the airport in Phonsavan,
Laos, for the arrival of Hmong relatives from America.
Graphic: Pioneer Press
Immigration to the U.S.

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  April 12, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

ABUSES BY BORDER PATROL AGENTS CITED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 103 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Border Patrol agents routinely abuse people seeking to enter the United States
from Mexico - legally and illegally - and enjoy virtual impunity, a human rights
group charges. Human Rights Watch-Americas, in a report to be issued today,
cites beatings, shootings, rapes and deaths alleged to have occurred at the
hands of INS agents. And it says the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a
Justice Department agency, is doing little to remedy its "abysmal human rights
record." Justice Department spokeswoman Ana Cobian said, "We do not believe that
INS officers commonly abuse legal or illegal immigrants."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   April 30, 1995 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

STREET OF DREAMS;
THE BUSTLING RETAIL AREA ON ST. PAUL'S UNIVERSITY AVENUE HAS ITS ORIGINS IN THE
EXODUS FROM SOUTHEAST ASIA AND AN EAGER PRUSUIT OF THE AMERICAN DREAM.

BYLINE: BYLINE: Susan M. Barbieri, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2254 words


Twenty years after the communist takeover of South Vietnam and the exodus that
followed, the Southeast Asian boat people and the children of the refugee camps
are busily transforming their lives in America. In the process, they are
transforming St. Paul.

Witness the changes on University Avenue during the past decade. An area once in
decay is now a thriving retail area of mostly Asian-run enterprises. In the
shadow of Minnesota's Capitol Hill, concentrated between Marion Street to the
east and Snelling Avenue to the west, is an ever increasing number of Asian
markets, restaurants and services.

"Most of these businesses you see are immigrant businesses. Immigrants - whether
they're Vietnamese or English or German or Russian or whatever - bring a certain
enthusiasm or energy or survivalistic mentality," says Michael Darger, executive
director of University UNITED, a nonprofit group promoting economic development
on the University Avenue corridor.

"There are entry barriers, because of their language, into the corporate world.
So self-employment is one of the limited options immigrants have."

There are 18,998 Asians living in St. Paul, according to the 1990 U.S. Census,
and the Frogtown area is a magnet for them. More than 12,000 of the city's
Asians are Hmong, but there also are many Vietnamese and Cambodians.

"Over here, life is very good," says auto shop owner Le Phan, 44, who fled
Vietnam in 1975 after having served in the South Vietnamese Navy for six years.
He has been repairing cars for 20 years, five of them on University.

"I happy. Long as you work hard, you can get it. Work hard, you can get whatever
you want," Le Phan says.

Meet some others on University Avenue who are pursuing the American dream:

Thong Nguyen, 40, an auto mechanic from Saigon, who would not be here if he had
not known how to repair the motor on the 20-foot boat that carried him and 45
others across the South China Sea to freedom. (Except where specified, none of
the Nguyens in this story are related.)

Neng Shy, 31, who runs three businesses out of a tiny corner office in his
struggling grocery, Best Oriental Market. Neng Shy's family fought communists in
Laos, and now he fights to stay in business so he can send his two children to
college.

Sam Nguyen, 22, who is working on an economics degree at the University of
Minnesota and whose family ran a store in Saigon. Sam's father, Du, hopes his
son will take over the Hong Phat grocery when he retires.

Ket Lim, a young Chinese man of 26 whose parents were killed in Cambodia,
leaving him to forge a life for himself in America alone. Lim runs Oriental
Video, which rents out Vietnamese, Cambodian and Laotian movies.

Doug Nguyen, 32, a Vietnamese who has a degree in aerospace but liked the
security of running a supermarket. He has since turned over Kim Hung market to
his in-laws so he can concentrate on selling insurance for State Farm. An open
doorway connects the store to the insurance office.

Behind the music of their foreign tongues is all-American, can-do spirit. Behind
every door on University Avenue is a story.

Thong Nguyen came to this country in 1981 and has been repairing cars at Thong's
Auto Repair for five years. As he tells his story, his grease-blackened hands
never stop working a bolt into a chain.

"The end of the war make us crazy, and we go," he says, recalling how he felt in
1975 after Saigon fell. "We put a motor on a boat. We repair the motor. Me and
my wife and two kids go to the camp in Malaysia. We on the sea for about 10
days. About 45 people in boat about 20 feet long and about 8 feet wide. Just
water and a little food."

Catholic Social Services helped him and his family get started anew in America
in 1981. Because he had been working on cars in Vietnam since he was 19, he
decided to attend Minneapolis Technical College to hone his mechanical skills.
He took classes for three years.

"The first day I come over here I have nothing. No money. Just working hard. At
first I work in school for ESL (English as a second language). After that, I
work on cars at my house to get money to pay for gas," Nguyen says.

"My wife is working two jobs, get money to pay house, pay rent, pay for kids,
pay car insurance," he adds. They have five children, ages 10 to 18.

"Some guys that come to United States about a year, they're working two jobs,
three jobs, like that. They make money. They work about $5, $6 an hour at
night," he says, matter-of-factly. "We like freedom, that's why we come over.
I'm happy OK because here is freedom."

His advice for immigrants who wish to start their own businesses? "Small eat,
get more money," he says, with a broad smile.

Although there are far more Hmong living in the area than there are Vietnamese,
most Asian businesses on University Avenue are Vietnamese-owned.

"The Vietnamese, when they got here, had the advantage of being relatively
sophisticated and world-wise, whereas people like the Hmong had a much less
informed world view," says Bill Gahr of University UNITED. "To them, Saigon was
almost as far-flung a place as Washington, D.C."

But the war in Southeast Asia eventually flushed the Hmong and others out of
Laos as well. Neng Shy was a student and a town-dweller when he was forced to
move from Laos to Thailand and on to the United States in 1980. He has been
running his store on University Avenue for more than two years, but it is not
yet profitable.

When he arrived in Minnesota, his first priority was to finish high school.
While working toward graduation, he worked at a plastics company assembling
shampoo bottles. He later took college classes in business and computer science,
graduating in 1990. He tried to obtain a bank loan to start the grocery store
but was turned down because he had no track record.

"I don't know how long I'm going to be in business. It depends on customers.
Couple day, couple months, couple year no customers, probably I go out of
business," he says. His typical workday is 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.

But Neng Shy has backup plans. Among the enterprises that he has started in a
corner office in the grocery store are a travel agency and a computer services
business. He hopes to open a loan company to serve Hmong people.

"I cannot survive with one business. If this one go down, I don't get any help,
so that's why I try to do more than one business," he says.

Neng Shy has two children, ages 3 and 4. "For my kids, right now I'm hoping I
can just put money in the bank for college. That's what I plan to do, and I'm
hoping that my kids will grow up and do better than me because they're growing
up here, and they'll probably know a lot more than me."

Some merchants, including Neng Shy, fear that crime will force them to flee
University Avenue. University UNITED's Michael Darger admits that drugs,
prostitution, graffiti, trash and racial tension are problems.

"There's a certain amount of animosity," Darger says. "The melting pot isn't
melting down. It's a simmering stew. You get resentment of some of the white
businesses against the Asians, and some of the black businesses against the
Asians, some of the Asian businesses against the blacks and the black
businesses. Why? Why is America America?"

Part of the problem is the suspicion, mostly unfounded, about who gets grant
money and business loans, Darger says. Non-Asian business owners suspect that
Asians receive special treatment. Darger notes that his group will assist any
business that wants to renovate a University Avenue building.

University UNITED is interested in the aesthetics of the avenue, and much of
what the group does is help business owners fix up building facades with bright
new awnings and paint. A qualifying business owner puts up half of the cost, and
University UNITED puts up the other half. In addition, the group offers advice
on state programs and grants available to small-business owners.

Du Nguyen, owner of Hong Phat grocery store, is receiving state grant money
through University UNITED to repair the building's parapet, cornices and
shingles. The Nguyen family started the business in 1987 and bought the building
two years later. The family of five lives above the store and leases out some
commercial space in the building.

Du Nguyen is uncomfortable with English and prefers to let his son, Sam, speak
for him. Sam Nguyen tells how the family fled Saigon by boat in 1978. Sometimes
his father jumps in with a detail or two.

"My mom and my dad basically were able to find a group of people that were
leaving, and then we joined in with them and just escaped one night. We stayed
on the sea for four days. Very little food - just oranges and lemons. And it was
a very small boat, like a tugboat. Maybe smaller than that.

"There were about 159 people all crowded into that boat and people were like on
the top of the roof of the boat lying like sardines. It was a very dangerous
journey. We ended up in Malaysia and were transferred to an island in Malaysia
which was a refugee camp, and we stayed there for 11 months."

The family was sponsored by people in the town of Audubon, Iowa, and felt very
fortunate. "My wife and me, we work two job in small town. My wife sewing. I go
to nursing home (to do maintenance and janitorial work) and work at General
Electric, assembly work," Du Nguyen says.

They had had a store in Saigon so they knew how to run a grocery. It took them
five years to save for their store here. "Our culture, we really don't like to
get loans. We don't like to owe people, to be in debt," Sam explains. "We save
and save or get a bunch of family members together and work there."

While saving for the store, they lived close to the bone. "Sometimes we'd buy
bread from a thrift store, four for $1. That's how we survived, by buying very
little cheap food so we could save up the money. Plus in a small town, things
were a little cheaper there," Sam says.

The family decided to move to St. Paul because they were accustomed to tall
buildings and the cosmopolitan atmosphere they had enjoyed in Saigon. Sam Nguyen
believes crime has actually decreased in the past few years, thanks in part to
the opening of a new Frogtown police station.

"When we started business in 1987, it was a lot more rough. People wouldn't go
out in the evenings. There was a lot of wackos walking around, and it was scary.
But in the last couple of years it's kind of gone down. Seems to be safer now,"
Sam Nguyen says. "We get along pretty well here. We get all people in here,
whites, blacks. It's pretty nice."

Whatever turmoil exists in the Twin Cities is nothing compared with what Ket Lim
lived through. Lim's parents were killed by communists in Cambodia. He came to
Minnesota in 1983, finished high school and took classes at the University of
Minnesota before deciding to join an uncle in Houston. His uncle taught him how
to run an Asian video store.

Instead of continuing in college, Lim moved to Southern California and opened a
video shop. The cost of living in California was high, however, so he decided to
move back to Minnesota - which he calls "my first state."

"In Cambodia, there's a lot of war around there and killing their own people,
even the families are killing. That's why we try really hard to escape from
Cambodia. Still, it's going on. Never stop killing people. I don't know when
they're going to stop," says Lim, who is Chinese but speaks Vietnamese and
Cambodian. "Over here, it's a lot easier. I'm really happy to be here."

So is insurance agent Doug Nguyen, who has taken full advantage of his freedom
to explore a number of career options.

Doug Nguyen came to Minnesota in 1981 and set about getting an education,
graduating from University of Minnesota in 1990 with a degree in aerospace. But
after finding he would have to relocate to work in aerospace - and after growing
uneasy about the potential for job security in defense work - he opted to stay
in Minnesota and go into business for himself.

He and his family are Vietnamese who ran prosperous businesses in Cambodia. His
father and grandparents owned processing centers for threshing and husking rice.
About 1975, when Doug Nguyen was 19, his brother was recruited to fight in the
communist army against the Cambodian Khmer Rouge.

"My parents said, 'No, it's not a good idea. We don't fight for communists. We
don't like the idea very much to fight for something we don't believe.' And then
the next year he had to hide himself somewhere. The year after, it's my turn,
and there's a way to escape from Cambodia," he says.

They bribed a jeepful of communist soldiers into carrying them to the Thai
border. The Nguyens were disguised in communist uniforms for the four-day trip.
"They drive through Cambodia and to the last town, then we had to walk through
the jungle and walk to Thailand. It's a nightmare if I'm thinking back about
that. And if I had to do it again, probably not," he says.

Doug Nguyen has two boys, ages 2 and 8. His wife works at Kim Hung market, which
lies just through an open door from the insurance office. Doug Nguyen has high
hopes for University Avenue. He says he would like to see a variety of stores
owned by African-Americans, Asians, Italians - anybody.

"It's fun that way. I don't like to have this called Chinatown or Vietnam Town,
or Little Saigon. I like to have a mix so that it will be good for everyone," he
says. "This country is great. It's still the greatest country on earth compared
to anywhere."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: 20 Years Later

GRAPHIC: 3 Photos: Bill Alkofer, Pioneer Press
1) Neng Shy sits among the bags of rice at his Best Oriental Market along
University Avenue in St. Paul. They are his best-selling items, he says.
2) Sam, left, and Du Nguyen run the Hong Phat market on University Avernue.
They import gifts such as vases and delicacies such as durian fruit from
Thailand.
3) Thong Nguyen owns Thong Auto Repair on University Avenue. He came to the
United States in 1981.

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     May 7, 1995 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

U.S. MUST ADDRESS PROBLEM AT ITS ROOTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Immigration Pressures; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 430 words


The 20th century twilight illuminates the sunrise of a 21st century world on the
move. Not just a planet spinning on its axis, but a stressed world where the
movement of vast of numbers people is pressing urgently against old perceptions
of human and national security.

From economic collapses and civil strife across Africa, millions have the choice
to move or risk dying. From the wreckage of the Soviet empire come the refugees
of war and economic ruin. From the poor countryside to the overrun mega cities
like Cairo, Mexico City, New Delhi, Beijing, Los Angeles, people are on the
move.

To pretend otherwise, as the Fortress America crowd on the far right does, is
stupid. But it also is unacceptable for the United States to dig the shifting
sands of in-migration with teaspoons and call the product of this public policy
labor a secure foundation for America's future. Examples are proliferating of
the inability to manage illegal immigration and ineffectiveness of applying
legal immigration processes.

Last week, the United States demonstrated with an inconsistent, ill-begetting
decision on Cuban refugees that a more proactive overall immigration policy must
be a higher priority.

The central difficulty of managing the effects of migration is that each
situation of displaced people is profoundly local while also an international
challenge.

This community knows about the duality. For instance, those with long family
memories know what brought the Irish here. Those coming in the last generation
know the struggles of the Hmong. Because staying home in peace, free from
persecution, secure in the circle of family with adequate sustenance, was not an
option.

The most effective, consistent migration management policies, then, lie in
strategies that make "home" safer for all people. This premise is the bedrock
from which to carve successes. The carvers' tools are familiar: grassroots
empowerment, population management assistance, other public health and education
resources, trade and economic development, political self-determination. None of
these tactics is unproven. All are underemployed. All are in the U.S.
self-interest.

Serving these goals means bitter warfare in the world's nastiest trenches, those
of power politics. Of human rights abuse, of economic disparity, of political
repression.

The very pressures that make this work toward migration management necessary
also make them difficult to pursue fairly. But deferral or denial are not
options in a world with vanishing borders and proliferating populations on the
move.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The most effective policies are those that make 'home' safer for all
people.

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     May 8, 1995 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

AIDING KIN IN ASIA;
HELP HMONG LEARN TO WORK THE SYSTEM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 376 words


All struggles of recent immigrant people pull between the past and the future,
between the unjust and the unknown. The Twin Cities community is feeling the
pull acutely now among the Hmong who are making a new home here but cannot solve
particularly difficult problems of their people still on the other side of the
world.

As a recent series of Pioneer Press articles chronicled, the last camps in
Thailand for Hmong will close at year's end, further diminishing prospects for
families to reunite in the United States. There is inadequate United Nations
resettlement money. Life back in Laos carries special burdens for Hmong.

The situations facing Hmong should ride hard on the whole American conscience.
But it is unrealistic to expect miracles from Washington. While Minnesota counts
30,000 Hmong among the population, Washington is counting more than a million
people a year coming into the United States. On the grand scale of transnational
immigration issues, the Hmong are a small-scaled concern to big governments.

Washington is working with a political and policy system to manage its
immigration goals. These goals must be to foster stability at home and abroad.

Certainly the system needs more consistency and fairness. But the system in
place is the one that must be worked. In Washington. In Thailand. In Laos. Here.

It is in this whole community's interest to join with the Hmong to build their
capacity as citizens to learn how to apply the All-American squeaky wheel.

The squeaky wheel should sustain pressure for better treatment of Hmong in Laos.
It should speak strongly to encouraging economic development for Laos. In the
near future, the U.S. government can - if prodded - use its good offices with
the Thai government to ease a very rough road.

Efforts to foster political growth in the Midwest Hmong communities also should
aim at mastering the details for those who want to work the immigration system
to bring family members here who want to come. Many a previous newcomer can
testify that difficult does not mean impossible. Continuing reunions affirm
this.

History cannot be undone. But this community, its Hmong and non-Hmong, have some
power over tomorrow's history, pulling together instead of apart.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    May 26, 1995 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION OF JEWS IS SLOWING DOWN;
ST. PAUL TO LIMIT EFFORTS AS NUMBERS DECREASE

BYLINE: BYLINE: CLARK MORPHEW, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 593 words


The largest movement of Jews in the history of Judaism is beginning to wane both
around the world and in St. Paul, Jewish officials say.

But it has been an exhilarating ride, and the enthusiasm of the emigres and
their hosts doesn't appear to be dampened.

"Since this started seven years ago, 929 Jews have emigrated to St. Paul," said
Sam Asher, executive director of the St. Paul Jewish Fund and Council, which
raised money for resettlement efforts. "But now we are projecting that only 60
people will come to St. Paul next year. So we've scaled back services this
year."

The movement reaches around the world. More than a million people will have
immigrated to Israel from the former Soviet Union by the end of this century,
and 40,000 to 50,000 each year have immigrated to the United States, Australia
and Canada since the exodus from the Soviet Union began.

Asher said "serious, significant numbers" of people in the former Soviet Union
are holding visas, waiting for the economy in Israel to improve. That means the
rush to emigrate could pick up at any time, and efforts in St. Paul will
continue at a reduced level but stand ready to expand.

The Resettlement Connection, which gives free furniture and clothing to emigres,
will remain open. Language training will continue, as will the Family Ties
program that introduces Jewish emigres to American Jews.

Volunteer Connie Ross, who has managed the Resettlement Connection for the past
three years, said it takes young families about six months to get settled in St.
Paul.

"It's a very humbling experience," Ross said. "They are not desperate in the
sense of being destitute. But emigration upsets their entire world."

Some families adjust quickly, while others struggle with the English language
and so have difficulty finding jobs.

Lana Butenko, her husband, Michael, and son Alex immigrated to St. Paul in 1990.
Since then she has graduated from Dunwoody Institute with a degree in baking
technology and kitchen management. She manages the kitchen at the Temple of
Aaron in St. Paul.

Her son is in his third year at the University of Minnesota in engineering,
while her husband is employed as an assembler. Last year they bought a home, in
Eagan, an event they never imagined would happen.

Dressed in red, white and blue, with an American flag on one lapel and a button
that said "I am an American citizen" on the other, Butenko was ready to
celebrate Tuesday evening at a citizenship party at the Jewish Community Center.
The party honored the 160 Jewish emigres who have become U.S. citizens since
1988.

"We come here with our problems," Butenko said. "We did not know the language.
For two months we didn't talk to anybody. But this community is a blessing from
God. When I became a citizen, my husband said over and over all week long, 'God
bless America."'

St. Paul Mayor Norm Coleman, who marched in Washington, D.C., in 1987 for Soviet
Jewry, told the crowd that new Americans and longtime citizens have a common
goal.

"I marvel at your accomplishments," Coleman said. "But the work is not over. We
want to create a place where people want to live and raise their families. What
we have is something that doesn't come easily. We all have responsibility."

Bert Garr, executive director of the Jewish Community Center in St. Paul, said
the Jewish community and foundations in the area have been very generous. But
now the funds are running out.

"But it has all paid off," Garr said, "because they've become productive
citizens and they are very patriotic."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean Pieri, Pioneer Press
"We came here with our problems ... but this community is a blessing from
God," says Lana Butenko, who came to St. Paul with her husband and son and
works at Temple of Aaron.

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   June 7, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

HONORING CONTRIBUTIONS;
IMMIGRATION'S TRUE FACE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 292 words


As Washington works up its anti-immigrant obsession, Minnesota Advocates for
Human Rights has been busy showing the genuine faces of American immigrants. The
message to a forgetful people: We Are Them.

At its awards dinner tonight in Minneapolis, the human rights group will
celebrate immigrants' contributions, focusing on five outstanding Minnesotans
born outside the United States. The focus is timely and important. This country
has been and is being built by immigrants. The five to be honored are:

M. Nazie Eftekhari, a native of Iran and chief operating officer of the Araz
Group, an independently held health care preferred provider organization.

Jose Lamas, a native of Mexico, a recent Worthington High School graduate who
plans to study law.

W. George Meredith, a native of South Wales in the United Kingdom, who is an
executive vice president of 3M Co.

Viet Ngo, a native of Vietnam and founder and CEO of Lemna Corp. and a
well-regarded sculptor.

Rocky Ralebipi, a native of South Africa who is Humphrey Fellow and library
scientist.

The United States finds itself in an especially thick nativist stew now. The
world is in a profound state of flux. Immigration demographics make many more
newcomers stand out by their race or ethnicity in what has been a Eurocentric
nation. The disproportionate impact of illegal immigration in the southern
United States is driving necessary but exaggerated responses from policy-makers.
But most of all, the political spin has degenerated so profoundly that a citizen
who channel-surfs or scans headlines to form ideas about immigration gets a
distorted picture.

Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights reminds the community that on the whole,
the picture of immigrants is positive.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   June 7, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

5 MINNESOTA IMMIGRANTS HONORED FOR ACHIEVEMENT;
RIGHTS GROUP AWARD IS FOR CONTRIBUTION

BYLINE: BYLINE: Ann Baker, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 708 words


The last time Rocky Ralebipi went home to Pietersburg, South Africa, it was
1992, two years after Nelson Mandela walked out of prison.

Seeing tank-like army vehicles called "hippos" patrolling her family's
segregated black neighborhood, she couldn't shake off the memory of a 1977
police raid on the university where she was a student. Classmates suspected of
conspiring against the apartheid government were beaten to death and flung out
of 10th-story windows.

It's a memory the College of St. Catherine librarian will never forget.

Tonight, Ralebipi and four other immigrants who live in the state will be
honored at the Minneapolis Hilton by Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights for
their outstanding contributions to Minnesota's economy and community life.

Nazie Eftekhari, Jose Lamas, George Meredith and Viet Ngo, who with Ralebipi are
immigrants from four different continents, teach, invent, create and manage
businesses and operate communication networks. All but Meredith came to
Minnesota as students.

"These individuals are not unique," said Nancy Arnison, deputy director of
Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights. "They represent what immigrants bring to
this country."

Arnison points to local surveys showing that Minnesotans tend to believe
immigrants brought more harm than good, even before California's Proposition 187
barred undocumented immigrants' families from free school and vaccinations.

In the meantime, anti-immigrant sentiment is on the rise nationally, with
welfare reform bills in the U.S. House and Senate proposing to deny numerous
federal services to legal immigrants who are waiting to become naturalized.

Eftekhari, who is from Iran, founded and directs one of the first managed-care
health corporations in the United States, called the Araz Group. Recipient of
the 1995 Bloomington Small Business Person of the Year award, she has 115
employees.

"It's the strength of this country that people can come here and accomplish
their dreams, " she says.

Lamas left Mexico for California by himself six years ago at age 14, supporting
himself with restaurant jobs. He graduated from Worthington Senior High School
on Monday, and has published three editions of a six-page Spanish language
newspaper, supported by advertisements, for the Worthington area.

In the fall he plans to enroll at Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter to
study pre-law. He also likes to tinker with inventions, especially auto safety
devices. He has legal immigration papers now and hopes to become a citizen in
three years.

Meredith, a 28-year veteran of 3M, came here on a job transfer from South Wales
eight years ago. He is an executive vice president in charge of the company's
life sciences division, which produces medical, pharmaceutical and dental
products.

Now a U.S. citizen, Meredith lives in Grant Township, which he calls "a
satisfying place to live from a community standpoint." He enjoys the outdoors,
fishing, skiing and sailing on the St. Croix.

Ngo, an engineer and sculptor who came from Vietnam in 1970, founded and
operates a sewage treatment company, Lemna Corp. of Mendota Heights. He creates
parks out of ponds with floating duckweed, packed into wire mesh to cleanse the
effluent. His method is praised as cheap, natural and esthetic.

"And I'm as American as chow mein," he says.

"We're trying to dispel the myths that immigrants are flooding our shores,
taking American jobs, draining the welfare system and failing to assimilate,"
said Arnison.

In fact, she said, immigrants, who have been entering at the "hardly a flood"
rate of 1 million a year, make up 8 percent of the population, compared with 15
percent in the early 1900s. Together, they earn $240 billion a year and pay back
$90 billion in taxes. Only 9 percent of immigrant households are on welfare.

Next week, Ralebipi, who now directs the College of St. Catherine's health
sciences library, will return to South Africa, this time to teach library
technology for a year to students at her alma mater, the University of the
North.

This time she is excited, not scared. She is confident that in South Africa
freedom has become "really real" and she is eager to help build the newly
integrated society.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 5 photos
Ralebipi Eftekhari Lamas Meredith Ngo

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    June 19, 1995 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT UPRISING ENDS, GUARDS SAFE, NO CHARGES

SECTION: MAIN; MONDAY BRIEFING; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 109 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J.


About 300 detainees at a center for immigrants awaiting deportation hearings
took two guards hostage Sunday and held them until police stormed the building
nearly six hours later. A third guard, who hid in a false ceiling, also was
rescued. The privately run Esmor Immigration Detention Center has been
criticized recently by former detainees who complained of blaring televisions
and bright lights kept on almost all night, spoiled food, and guards pushing
them around and trying to pick fights. Police subdued the detainees with pepper
spray. Union County prosecutor Michael Lapolla said no one was seriously injured
and no charges were filed.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    July 4, 1995 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

WHAT PRICE SHOULD PEOPLE PUT ON AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP?

BYLINE: BYLINE: Julia Malone

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 615 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


How much is being an American citizen worth?

At this annual time of patriotic renewal, that's a crass, unheroic question to
ask. But it hovers over the land like lingering smoke after the fireworks.

In unprecedented numbers, immigrants are suddenly rushing to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to seek full U.S. citizenship.

By no small coincidence, the trend comes just as Congress debates whether to cut
off some welfare benefits to non-citizens. In California, which last fall passed
proposition 187 calling for restricting government payments to immigrants,
applications for citizenship are deluging the naturalization offices. In Los
Angeles alone, requests are up fivefold from a year ago.

If many of these newcomers are cramming for the civics exams largely out of
concern for their pocketbooks, they aren't alone.

At the other end of society's spectrum are the two dozen American billionaires
said to be relinquishing their American citizenship for lavish lifestyles in the
Bahamas, Ireland or some other pleasant destinations where taxes are minuscule.

For those, the price of patriotism was too high. Some, including Michael
Dingman, 63, once a Wall Street mover-and-shaker and now a resident of the
Bahamas, have agreed to a simple, stark sentence:

"I hereby absolutely and entirely renounce my United States nationality together
with all rights and privileges and all duties of allegiance and fidelity."

What would Francis Scott Key have thought, as a prisoner in his cramped ship
cell in the Baltimore harbor in 1814, anxiously watching the British bombardment
light up the night sky and praying that dawn would find the tattered Old Glory
still flying proudly over Fort McHenry?

In the 1990s, the scene would perhaps be turned into a music video or a t-shirt
design.

Perhaps we're making citizenship seem too easy, too ordinary, a matter of merely
boning up on U.S. history and reciting the answers to questions such as "What
are the colors of our flag?", "What is the president's official home?" and "What
is the Fourth of July?"

How is it that so many people now see citizenship in terms of what it will bring
them?

One resident - who happened to be from Ethiopia, although there are plenty of
examples from any number of countries - has spent decades prospering in the
United States. His wife recently became naturalized so she could bring her
mother here. As for the husband, he couldn't see any advantage in citizenship
unless he decides to travel abroad and needs the extra protection a U.S.
passport brings.

Congress has recently given the INS $52 million in a push to process applicants
for citizenship. And the lawmakers are working on a measure to force the
billionaire "ex-patriots" to pay their taxes ($2.4 billion over 10 years) and
even to have their names published in a kind of hall of shame.

But it will take a change of heart by the people, not a change of law, to
restore what it means to be a full participant in a country whose purpose and
formation symbolize so much more than material wealth.

The founders often spoke of the new government, by the people and for the
people, as a bold experiment with a potential for setting an example for the
entire globe.

Just before he was sworn in as president, Abraham Lincoln echoed that thought by
remarking that the sentiments of the Declaration of Independence "gave liberty
not alone to the people of this country, but hope to all the world, for all
future time."

If Americans fail in taking up that responsibility, the cost will be dear for
everyone.

Malone is a Washington-based writer for Cox Newspapers. Distributed by the New
York Times News Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   August 5, 1995 Saturday MINNESOTA EDITION

U.S. SWEATSHOPS NEW 'SLAVERY';
CALIFORNIA RAID PUTS SPOTLIGHT ON ELUSIVE GARMENT OPERATIONS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Calvin Woodward, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The raid on a California suburban sweatshop marked one apparent success against
an elusive prey - the fleet-footed garment operations where migrants fearing
deportation zip their lips and toil for next to nothing.

"It's hard to say the word 'slavery' in America," says federal labor-law
enforcer Maria Echaveste. "But the awful thing is ... this story is not unique."

America's sweatshops thrive on both coasts in industrial tracts or nondescript
housing, rooms often without a view or even ventilation, where workers may spend
almost every waking hour at their machines or needles.

Agents who found 68 Thai nationals in an apartment complex in a tidy
neighborhood of El Monte, Calif., were told the workers were confined to the
compound day and night, even after they had paid off the immigration debts that
had drawn them into servitude and 17-hour work days.

"It is more common than anybody in this country would like to believe,"
Echaveste, administrator of the Labor Department's wage and hours division, said
of the sweatshop economy.

The garment industry has in some sense gone back to its roots, bringing with it
a return to economic forces that gave rise to the sweatshops of a century ago.

Most clothing manufacturing is farmed out to specialized contractors that
mass-produce parts of the garment, scattering the industry far and wide and
making laws on the minimum wage, overtime and other work conditions hard to
police.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associated Press
Razor wire is suspended over a corner of the prisonlike apartment complex in
El Monte, Calif., that agents raided Wednesday after investigating alleged
slave-labor conditions at a sweatshop. The Thai immigrants found inside
reportedly were forced to live at the complex, where they put in 17-hour work
days.

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  August 5, 1995 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

BORDER-CROSSING PAPERS TO INVOLVE FEE;
CHARGE AIMED AT AREA RESIDENTS, NOT TRAVELERS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Jim Ragsdale, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 408 words


A new federal service charge for border-crossing documents will primarily affect
residents of the area along the U.S.-Canadian border, an official of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in the Twin Cities said Friday.

The new fees for both Canadian and Mexican border crossings, to take effect in
October, were announced this week by federal officials in Washington.

Dean Hove, acting district director for the INS office in Minneapolis, said a
document used by border-area residents that allows them to cross without an
inspection will now cost $16, or a maximum of $32 for a family.

Hove said 4,000 to 6,000 people per year obtain the document, known as an I-68,
in Minnesota and North Dakota. Most are in the International Falls-Fort Francis
area, and the document enables them to cross more easily. There had been no
charge for the document previously.

Hove said the new fees are to be used to hire more employees to improve service
at the border crossing. In addition to the I-68 fee, more specialized documents
used primarily by Canadian citizens will also have new fees, Hove said. This
includes a border-crossing card used by Canadian truck drivers, he said.

Hove said the new fees will not affect the casual vacationer making a one-time
passage across the border. He said the INS hopes it can diminish summertime
backups at busy crossings, such as the International Falls-Fort Francis bridge,
by hiring more agents.

As of Oct. 9, according to the INS Washington office, the service will charge
processing fees ranging from $4 to $32 for six different forms allowing for
extended stays, broadened areas of travel and boat-landing permits.

The estimated $18 million in new revenues will be dedicated for improvements at
land-border ports of entry. The INS estimates the charges will allow it to hire
185 more inspectors and support staff throughout the U.S.

The new levies reflect federal policies shifting costs for certain benefits to
the consumer, INS officials said.

"The time has come to levy these modest service charges in order to support and
enhance customer service to the mounting numbers of visitors entering the United
States along the Mexican and Canadian borders," said INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner.

The latest regulation allows INS border officials to waive any of the service
charges in cases of hardship.

This report includes information from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  August 10, 1995 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

TEACHERS LEARN SOME LESSONS ON IMMIGRATION;
PROGRAM EMPHASIZES STRENGTHS OF MOVERS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Debra O'Connor, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 548 words


More than one in four St. Paul students speaks a language other than English at
home.

Because so many of their students are new to America, about 25 St. Paul teachers
are spending the week studying ways to incorporate literature and social studies
dealing with immigration and migration into their classrooms. The topic, they
say, is too important to rely on a once-a-year nod to different nations' food
and holidays.

The humanities program, held at Macalester College, emphasizes the strengths of
people who decided to move or were forced to, whether from a faraway country or
to an Indian reservation. Teachers are reading books for all grade levels,
watching videos, listening to speakers and participating in discussions on how
to work the material into their lessons.

Even kindergartners can appreciate a picture book of what it was like for artist
Carmen Lomas Garza to grow up in a traditional Mexican household. And after
discussing the book, the teachers decided, children can draw their own pictures
to tell about what it's like growing up in their own houses.

"We can say, 'Tell me about your own family,"' said Longfellow Elementary School
teacher Marcella Ruiz, herself a first-generation emigrant from Mexico.

The weeklong program was designed by the Minnesota Humanities Commission, the
National Faculty and the Phi Beta Kappa Society to offer to St. Paul district
teachers a workshop taught by nationally recognized scholars. It was funded by
the Knight Foundation.

Of the St. Paul district's 40,000 students, 8,000 speak Hmong at home, 1,500
speak Spanish, 500 each speak Cambodian and Vietnamese, 165 speak Chinese, 180
speak various African languages and 70 speak Russian.

Not only do St. Paul's children need to understand and appreciate each other's
backgrounds, the teachers said, but it's crucial for the staff to be
knowledgeable about what it means to move into a different culture.

"I'm white, and I have to do this kind of thing to make myself more aware," said
Carolin Faytle, who teaches French at Ramsey Junior High.

It's important to realize that St. Paul, like the United States as a whole, was
built by immigrants, said Macalester geography professor David Lanegran.

On Wednesday afternoon, Lanegran taught a classroom session and then took the
teachers on a bus trip that included an Asian grocery store and Swede Hollow,
the location of a former slum for a succession of immigrants - first Swedes,
then Italians, then Mexicans.

To put the current waves of Asian migration into perspective, Lanegran outlined
the history of immigrants in the United States and in St. Paul. The largest
number between 1820 and 1986 was from Germany, followed by Italy, the United
Kingdom, Ireland and Austria-Hungary. And in St. Paul a century ago, Swedes and
Norwegians had a serious running argument over which ethnic background was
better.

"We are all migrants," Lanegran told the teachers. "We will all move. We are
constantly weighing the advantages of other places and the costs of getting
there."

But the feelings of those who got there first toward the most recent arrivals
have always been the same, Lanegran said.

"We find this attitude in every single ethnic group," he said. "It's always:
'Close the drawbridge after me."'

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Rossi, Pioneer Press
Sue Wallen, a teacher at Como Park High School, talks to Tiffany Yang, 3, and
her brother Anthony, 11, at May's American-Oriental Market on University
Avenue. The market was one stop on a bus tour for teachers Wednesday.

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   August 20, 1995 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

MEETING TACKLES FUTURE OF LATINO HOUSING PROJECT;
IMMIGRANTS FEAR EVICTION, CALL CITY'S DEAL TOO HASTY

BYLINE: BYLINE: Dan Browning, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1144 words


Community organizers and city and federal officials got an earful Saturday at a
public meeting to discuss the fate of about 75 poor Latino families living in a
housing project on St. Paul's West Side.

The families, many of whom are undocumented immigrants, live in a 20-year-old
complex of four buildings known collectively as the Concord Square Apartments.
The buildings are wedged between a limestone bluff and businesses that front
Concord Avenue and State Street.

Some who attended the two-hour meeting in the West Side Health Clinic accused
community organizers of fixing the sale and redevelopment of the property before
the public had a chance to debate its future.

A handful of residents said they were worried about being evicted. Because they
are poor, speak little English and have large families, they said, they have
been unable to find other affordable housing in the city.

They said many others would like to have spoken at the meeting but feared
authorities would notify immigration officials.

Owners of the 114-unit complex recently were declared in default on $2 million
in debts to the U.S. Housing and Urban Development Department and the city of
St. Paul. The federal government is foreclosing on the property.

The Neighborhood Development Alliance, a nonprofit community-development agency,
has had its eye on the complex since at least 1991. The corporation, along with
its executive director and vice president, own nearly the entire block on the
bluff above the complex, as well as a vacant, 14-unit row house across from the
apartments on State Street.

The West Side Citizens Organization, a local planning council and policy-making
body, voted unanimously Monday to select the alliance as redeveloper of the
apartment complex if the city can work out a deal to buy it from HUD.

The planning council made that selection without an open bidding process and
before any public forums, complained Ricardo Flores, a West Side resident who
was hired as a caretaker for the site after HUD took it over in June.

"You're putting the cart before the horse," he said.

Patti Tototzintle, president of the council, responded that the vote was taken
before any public forums because the council had to act quickly. HUD wants to
get an agreement to sell the property to the city by the end of September, she
noted.

Actually, the deal has been in the works for some time.

Records from the Neighborhood Development Alliance show its board voted April 19
to authorize executive director Brian Miller to buy the apartments.

Miller wrote the city's planning director June 7 asking the city to intervene
with HUD to ensure the project would be sold to a local developer rather than
auctioned to the highest bidder, as federal regulations ordinarily require.

Miller said his corporation wanted to be that redeveloper, in association with
the West Side planning council and the Riverview Economic Development
Association, a business group. The letter was signed by Miller, Tototzintle and
Anne Briseno, executive director of the business association.

The three organizations have hired state Rep. Carlos Mariani, assistant minority
leader, as a consultant.

Although Tototzintle assured the public no specific plans have been made for the
site, the letter she signed said, "The neighborhood has a strong desire to see
this property undergo major physical changes.

"It is critical to preserve the broadest possible options, including demolition
of a part or all of this development, until our discussions can occur," the
letter says.

A memo attached to the letter, dated May 26, states that HUD "has indicated a
willingness to consider the use of HUD funds to demolish two of the buildings in
the development."

The Neighborhood Development Alliance has discussed replacing two of the
buildings with townhomes or a lease-cooperative, the same plan it has mentioned
for the vacant row houses across the street, which it has owned for two years.

John Neess, director of Riverview Neighborhood Crime Watch, criticized Miller's
plans for the area. He said it appears Miller wants to weed out some of the
low-income properties and "upgrade the rest to middle-class standards ... as a
way to create an inner-city suburb."

City Council President Dave Thune, who represents the West Side, strongly
disputed that. "Nobody's out to try to change the demographics on the West
Side," he said. "We're not trying to displace low-income people."

Howard Goldman, director of HUD's multifamily-housing division, said regulations
generally require competitive bidding for the sale of a housing project. He said
he hoped to get around that requirement by persuading officials in Washington to
sell it to the city. The city then would sell it to a developer.

Goldman also said he would support HUD paying to tear down two of the buildings
and redevelop the other apartments if it could be shown that the neighborhood
residents wanted this done. < But gauging public sentiment may prove difficult.

About 20 of the 50 people who attended the meeting Saturday either are or were
affiliated with one of the organizations promoting the takeover plan.

For instance, Gilbert de la O, identifying himself as an area resident,
described the complex as the site of murders, prostitution and drug dealings, a
place full of rats and trash. He argued that it should be torn down and turned
over to local owners. He failed to identify himself, though, as a board member
for the Neighborhood Development Alliance.

Sue Nipe, a member of the Riverview Neighborhood Crime Watch, tried to present
statistics showing that police calls to the complex have been decreasing in the
past year and have dropped dramatically since HUD stepped in and ousted the
former management company. But she was cut off and asked to summarize.

Similarly, when Flores asked why no public bids were sought, the meeting's
leaders suggested he was out of order. Flores demanded to be heard anyhow.

"I encourage you to not rush to razing those two buildings. It's very difficult
to find housing in this community, period. The two buildings you're talking
about razing are occupied by Hispanics."

The planning agency said it would meet privately with small groups of residents
to ascertain their views. They plan one more public forum, for Aug. 29. The time
and place for that meeting have not been set.

Having your say

To express an opinion on what should be done with the Concord Square Apartment
Complex, call Daagya Dick at the West Side Citizens Organization, 293-1708, or
Carlos Mariani at the Neighborhood Development Alliance, 292-0131.

Howard Goldman, director of the Housing and Urban Development Department's
multifamily housing division in the Twin Cities, can be reached at 370-3051.
City Council President Dave Thune's office number is 266-8620.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  August 24, 1995 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

THREE L.A. SWEATSHOPS RAIDED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 112 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Immigration agents stormed three suspected sweatshops and took 55 people into
custody Wednesday. The raids followed a nationally publicized sweep three weeks
ago of a sweatshop in El Monte, where authorities discovered 72 Thai nationals
imprisoned and forced to sew clothes for up to 150 hours a week. Wednesday's
raids were prompted by a tip made soon after the El Monte raid, said Richard
Rogers, district director of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
All but three of those taken into custody Wednesday were illegal immigrants. The
U.S. attorney's office and Labor Department were investigating possible criminal
violations, authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 October 26, 1995 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

9 RETAILERS, CLOTHING MAKERS ADDED TO SWEATSHOP LAWSUIT

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; Pg. 3F

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Nine retailers and clothing makers were added Wednesday to a $100 million
lawsuit filed by 68 undocumented immigrants who say they were forced to live and
work like slaves in a suburban sweatshop.

Among those added was the Mervyn's retail chain, a subsidiary of
Minneapolis-based Dayton Hudson Corp., and B.U.M. International Inc.

Originally, the suit named only the owners and operators of the razor
wire-ringed compound where the immigrants worked.

"We are holding these companies jointly responsible for the wage violations,"
said Julie Su, an attorney with the Asian Pacific American Legal Center, which
is representing the workers in the lawsuit.

"We are putting the garment industry on trial and other companies on notice that
this kind of behavior is not acceptable and will not be tolerated," she said.

The lawsuit contends that the manufacturers and retailers were negligent in
hiring the suburban El Monte-based company, SK Fashions, but not supervising it
to ensure that labor laws were obeyed.

The lawsuit seeks $10,000 in damages for each worker for each day they spent in
the sweatshop, plus $7 million in back wages and overtime.

Other companies named as defendants were LF Sportswear; Tomato Inc.; Ms. Tops of
California Inc.; Topson Downs of California; F-40 California Inc.; and New Boys
Inc.

A call to Mervyn's, a subsidiary of the Minneapolis-based Dayton Hudson Corp.,
was not immediately returned. Officials at Topson Downs of California, a Los
Angeles-based manufacturer, did not immediately return a message seeking
comment.

The case came to light in August, when authorities raided the sweatshop and
found immigrants working and living in cramped, squalid conditions. The workers
said they were not allowed to leave and could not make unmonitored telephone
calls or send uncensored letters to their families in Thailand.

The workers were forced to buy their food at inflated prices from the company
and worked 18-hour days for wages that were below minimum wage, Su said.

"These workers lived and worked under the constant threat of harm to themselves
and to their families in Thailand," Su said.

"They were told that if they resisted or tried to escape, they would be beaten,
and to prove it, the slave sweatshop operators showed the bloody pictures of one
worker who was caught and punished for trying to escape," she said.

The operators of SK Fashions were named in a criminal complaint in August. That
same month the U.S. Labor Department filed a separate lawsuit accusing the
operators of violating the Fair Labor Standards Act.

The California Labor Commission also has sued the company, seeking more than $10
million in unpaid wages and damages.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               72 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  October 30, 1995 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

CASINOS A GLITZY TRAP FOR MANY IMMIGRANTS FROM SOUTHEAST ASIA

BYLINE: BYLINE: Susan M. Barbieri, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1969 words


To the immigrant, casinos represent all that is America: The lights are ever
bright, the action always fast, and the rooms perpetually sing with the sound of
easy money on metal. For many of the Twin Cities' Southeast Asians, gambling
provides a way to avoid depression and cultural isolation. It is a way to belong
- if only to an illusory America.

But going to a casino to escape depression is like jumping from the jaw of the
crocodile into the jaw of the tiger, warns Chom Chanh Soldaly, a case manager at
the Hennepin County Medical Center's addiction medicine center.

"Quite a few family take the paycheck, go straight to the casino, and come home
with nothing," Soldaly says. Earlier this year, Soldaly and a researcher from
the University of Minnesota conducted door-to-door interviews to gauge the
extent of problem gambling in the Hmong community. Time and again, people
reported that gambling had destroyed their families.

"They look to get out from some depression symptom or PTSD (post-traumatic
stress disorder). Then they end up gambling because they have nothing to do.
Lots of family are dependent on public assistance, and there are quite a bit of
the people who work - husband and wife - and end up gambling, too. They lose
their job, they lose their house."

Addiction specialists are growing increasingly concerned about the effects of
gambling on Southeast Asian families. The downward spiral is all too familiar:
the gambler loses an entire paycheck at a casino, then "chases" the debt by
borrowing more money. Soon there is nothing for rent or food. No money for gas
to get to work. Children are neglected while parents gamble, and endangered by
poverty and hunger if mother or father lose.

"We have bicultural workers who keep running into symptoms that, when you start
to explore, relate back to a gambling problem. 'My parents are fighting,' or 'We
don't have enough food in the house.' When they start to trace that back, you
find often that there's no money and it's got a gambling root," says Bob Popken,
executive director of United Cambodian Association of Minnesota, whose
organization is developing an intervention program.

"They have little or no disposable income, so anything they lose is magnified
greatly over people who have more disposable income," Popken says.

In Laos and other Southeast Asian countries, people might gamble once a year on
a holiday such as the New Year. Games are informal and might include animal
fighting contests. The odds of winning are about equal.

Observers say newcomers to this country don't fully understand that unlike
gaming activities in their homelands, American games favor the casino - or, in
the case of the lottery, the state. Newcomers need to understand how chasing a
gambling loss can lead to an inexorable cycle of debt, desperation and
compulsive behavior, experts say.

However, efforts to help Southeast Asian compulsive gamblers are stymied by
language barriers, distrust and lack of a culturally appropriate treatment
model. The confessional, 12-step "Minnesota model" is ineffective with these
populations. To admit a gambling problem and to admit financial failure is more
shameful than acknowledging a drug or alcohol addiction.

Still, the issue has begun to surface. During family gatherings held at United
Cambodian Association of Minnesota, Cambodian immigrants have named gambling as
one of the four biggest problems plaguing their community.

"The problem is increasing," says Vuthy Pril, a counselor trained in chemical
dependency and compulsive gambling. "The majority of gamblers live in public
housing area and they don't have a whole lot of money. They probably cut short
on their budget, which they should spend on food.

"They have their children nearby when they gamble, and they play too late at
night. Children maybe 2, 3 years old or younger. They're out playing until
midnight and their children should be in bed," he says.

Although people rarely broach the subject in community meetings, Pril takes it
upon himself to raise the issue. Though most people are casual or social
gamblers, he says he advises people to curb their activity or stop altogether.
Rarely will someone admit he or she has a problem.

"It's not something that's easy to bring up. It's even harder than drinking
problems or other drug problems. It's shameful," Pril says.

Cambodian tradition includes holiday betting, and perhaps some gambling to fill
empty time after the rice harvest. Gambling is not seen as immoral behavior, but
being out of control is not acceptable. Gambling is not new, Popken says -
what's new is that the societal controls that were in place in Cambodia have not
survived the move to the United States.

When Cambodians come to this country, they find that the gambling experience is
much different than it was in their homeland, Pril says.

"Now we have new things like lottery. And casino is a major one that people tend
to lose a lot of money in this country," Pril says. "A lot of Cambodian people
do not understand the probability of gambling, how much chance that you win from
slot machines. So therefore they just keep gamble in the hopes that they will
win.

"They know that they're going to win sometimes, but they don't know that the
probability of losing is more. They lack education. If they have some education,
a good understanding of how much chance they have over the dealers, then they
probably make a better decision whether to gamble or not."

William Yang, director of the Hmong-American Partnership, became concerned about
compulsive gambling among Southeast Asians in 1992 while working in St. Paul
Mayor Jim Scheibel's office. Yang was dismayed to learn that casinos were
sending buses to Hmong neighborhoods and giving people cash or coupons to use
for gambling. People would board the bus, leave children at home and gamble the
night - and their paychecks - away.

Although the casinos have stopped sending buses to public housing areas and
Southeast Asian neighborhoods, Yang remains deeply concerned about compulsive
gambling in the Hmong community.

Although he knows of some Hmong who play the lottery and Powerball, Yang is most
concerned about casino gambling because it is so attractive and so easy. Even
people with no English skills are able to play blackjack.

"We'd like to have something set up, let's say an outreach program, which would
be able to educate (about) the dangers of becoming a compulsive gambler. But so
far nothing has been done," Yang says. There is little money available to fund
outreach programs aimed at Southeast Asians, but Yang argues that it would be
cheaper to pay for education now than pay for treatment later.

Worse than opium

The University of Minnesota's substance abuse treatment program focuses on
special populations, including the Hmong. Of the average 130 patients the
program sees each day, more than a third are Southeast Asian, according to
psychiatrist Dr. Sheila Specker.

"One of the things that we found in treating them is we can deal with their
opium addiction, but they continue to gamble. They use all of their family
resources, whatever income they get from welfare, on gambling," Specker says.
"It becomes just as much, if not more, of a problem than opium. In fact, the
families would rather have them using opium, because they know where they are.
They're home in their room vs. out gambling."

The University of Minnesota program is one of the only treatment programs
capable of treating Southeast Asian opium addicts because it employs bilingual
workers. The staff is conducting a study of patients to determine the
pervasiveness of gambling.

"One of the problems is that even though we know they're gambling, because we
see them do it right out the door, they'll deny it. They won't acknowledge it to
us when we directly ask the questions," Specker says. "It's more shameful to
acknowledge a gambling problem than it is their opium use."

The university would like to develop a program to treat gambling addiction, but
the program would need funding to support a staff position for a bilingual
worker, she adds.

"One of the problems is that they don't have any skills to function in this
society. So as long as that continues, the chances of rehabilitation aren't
great. So part of the program is being able to teach people some basic skills
about how to get along in our culture."

Ken Winters is a University of Minnesota researcher who has done a variety of
studies on compulsive gambling for the state's Human Services Department.
Winters earlier this year developed a strategy for measuring the extent of
problem gambling among Southeast Asians.

A team of a social worker and Hmong counselor Chom Chanh Soldaly sought out
families where gambling was thought to be a problem. Intensive, home-based
interviews seemed to work well, Winters says.

"We did find that we could get people talking about it and they would open their
doors up," Winters says, adding that Soldaly already knew through informal
networks where gambling was a problem.

"It's going to take an outreach worker from the community to help us find people
and to establish the trust, but it looks like you also need someone well-trained
in addictions, probably from our culture, to serve as sort of the key
professional in executing some kind of intervention and treatment."

Winters hopes that the "home-based model" builds trust to a point where
eventually people with gambling troubles will enter a standard treatment
program. Winters notes that once word got out in the Hmong community that
Soldaly was a contact person, Soldaly began to get unsolicited calls from people
seeking help.

Education is key

Education about the risks of gambling must start young, according to Roger
Svendsen of the Minnesota Compulsive Gambling Hotline. Svendsen, who also serves
on the governor's advisory council on gambling, is working with the Southeast
Asian Community Coalition on Youth and Families to develop a gambling-education
program.

In addition, Svendsen has met with a variety of mutual aid organizations, which
assist immigrants with cultural assimilation issues, and he believes these
organizations will play key roles in educating Southeast Asians about
American-style gaming. There is much to learn about the dangers of overdoing
this form of entertainment, Svendsen says.

"Some of it has to do with boredom. What is there to do, for the older people,
if you can't understand TV, if there aren't plays or movies in your native
language, if the radio isn't meaningful and you don't really understand the
sports? A fairly culturally neutral place with excitement and glitz would be
some of the gambling environments," Svendsen says.

"We know that some of those people are vulnerable. We know that a lot of people
who get into trouble with gambling are in trouble because of separation events,
a death, a change in job, a way to deal with loneliness, a way to deal with lack
of vitality in life."

Soldaly agrees. He says it is important for Hmong people, particularly the
elderly, to find ways to fill their time besides sitting around feeling homesick
and depressed. He suggests classes on lifestyle issues that include tips on
"healthy" gambling, courses on English as a second language, or no-stakes card
games with other elderly or unemployed people.

"They are at home without nothing to do - just four walls. Like being in jail,
is what people said. They need help desperately," Soldaly says. Gambling, he
adds, "is a disease - contagious."

"The Lao folk say that if your house burn down, you lose everything but you
still have land to build new house. But if you game, you can sell everything and
you lose everything," Soldaly says. "Gambling is more worse than having a fire
burn."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Gambling on the Future

NOTES: One in an occasional series

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               73 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 November 8, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT 'PIONEER' DIES UNEXPECTEDLY;
HMONG BUSINESSWOMAN CALLED 'MOM' BY MANY

BYLINE: BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 392 words


To customers who shopped at her St. Paul store, Khou Xiong Yang was known as a
leading Hmong-American importer of ceremonial costumes. Many who visited her
store called her "Mom." She was also the real mother to 18 children, including
13 she adopted during the war in Laos.

Yang, a pioneering immigrant businesswoman, died Sunday, apparently from a
heart-valve rupture. She was 55.

Yang ran Hmong Toj Sab, a clothing and general store at 629 University Ave. The
store sold imports from China, Thailand and Laos. Opening the store two years
ago fulfilled a dream, according to her daughter, May Chou Her. She ran it in
partnership with her husband, Xeng Xue Yang. Before the store opened, Yang sold
her costumes and embroidery - known as pan'dau in Hmong - from booths at Hmong
festivals.

"She's been a businesswoman all her life," said Her. "Even in Laos, she started
going into business (as a shopkeeper during the Vietnam War). She was from Long
Cheng, where she had a store similar to what she's doing right now - selling
food, drink, clothing."

Yang was among the first wave of refugees to leave Laos after the communist
regime took over in 1975. After spending four years in Thailand's Ban Vinai
refugee camp, Yang settled in Minnesota.

Yang died on the way back to her Twin Cities home from a weekend international
crafts festival in Bemidji. "She was never sick," said Her. "This is really
unexpected for us."

The store on the northwest corner of University and Dale streets will be closed
until next week. Normally, it is open seven days a week. Yang's funeral will run
from Thursday through Sunday at the Sundseth-Anderson Funeral Home, 2024 Lyndale
Ave. N., Minneapolis.

The daughter said the family wants to re-open the store after the funeral, as a
way to honor their mother's dream.

Besides her business ventures, Yang took in many children whose parents could no
longer care for them, as well as Vietnam War orphans. Her first husband died in
1959. She had two biological children and three stepchildren, but also adopted
13 children, including Her, before leaving Laos.

"Everybody called her 'Mom,"' said Her. "She loved all the children she adopted.
Even people who just came to her store, they called her 'Mom."'

Burial for Yang, who lived in North Minneapolis, will be Monday in the city's
Lakewood Cemetery.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:
Yang

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               74 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  November 30, 1995 Thursday WISCONSIN EDITION

KENOSHA BEEF FIRES MORE THAN 200 WORKERS;
COMPANY WAS TARGET OF RECENT INS PROBE

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 322 words

DATELINE: KENOSHA, Wis.


More than 200 hourly employees at Kenosha Beef International Ltd. have been
fired for misrepresenting their citizenship and resident alien status.

Between 450 and 475 people normally work at the company's meat processing plant
in the town of Paris.

The Tuesday firings followed an investigation of the company's work force by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, said Dennis Vignieri, Kenosha Beef
president.

"We were taken by surprise because we thought we were doing everything and
verifying all documents," Vignieri said Wednesday.

Those fired ranged from people on the job for two or three years to new
employees, Vignieri said. Three people returned to work after the INS found
their documents were valid, he said.

Vignieri said he did not know the nationalities of those fired or exactly how
many employees were dismissed.

He declined to say how much the jobs involved paid, except that they ranged in
pay and paid significantly more than minimum wage.

No fines have been levied against the company, which gave investigators copies
of personnel records for all people hired at the plant since 1987.

It is a violation of the federal 1986 Sanctions Law to hire undocumented
workers, but the INS recognizes employers can be duped, said Roger Lindo,
officer in charge of the Milwaukee INS office.

Lindo declined to comment on the Kenosha Beef investigation.

A Kenosha Beef worker told the Kenosha News, on condition of anonymity, that
several of the fired workers illegally used the Social Security numbers of their
U.S.-born children to get jobs.

The worker said the firings disrupted production schedules.

Vignieri said Kenosha Beef customers would get their meat products as scheduled.

Some work normally done at the Kenosha Beef plant here has been transferred to
other company plants in Columbus, Ohio, and Norcross, Ga., he said. Kenosha Beef
is trying to replace the fired workers.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               75 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                 December 6, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

ALIENS MUST RENEW GREEN CARDS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 115 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Permanent resident aliens with green cards issued before 1979 were urged by the
government Tuesday to apply for new cards as soon as possible. The old Form
I-151 Alien Registration Cards will be invalid after March 20, 1996. Without a
valid card, resident aliens might be denied work, social welfare benefits and
re-entry into the United States from abroad. To get a new card, applicants must
deliver a completed Form I-90 and $75 to their local Immigration and
Naturalization Service office, but the fee and personal appearance can be waived
in hardship cases. Further information is available toll-free from INS at (800)
755-0777. The new cards must be renewed every 10 years.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               76 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  December 15, 1995 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

DEPORT A DEADBEAT? QUICK, CALL THE FEDS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Tom Powers, Staff Columnist

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 609 words


Man, oh man, is it difficult dealing with the federal government. I spent a good
part of Thursday on the telephone - on hold, actually - to the Department of
Justice. You would think I was asking for the moon. All I wanted was for them to
deport one deadbeat Canadian from the Dallas area.

What's the big deal? I thought immigrants had to be gainfully employed in order
to keep their visas. Norman Green no longer owns the Dallas North Stars. He is,
near as I can tell, a vagrant. I believe it is our God-given right, according to
Manifest Destiny or something, to wrap him in brown paper, crate him up and ship
him back to Alberta.

"I am not seeing anything in black and white that says a person has to work,"
said a spokeswoman from the Justice Department, which handles immigration
issues. "If the person has a green card, there is no possibility of
deportation." I had done my homework, however, and asked: What about a 994W
visa? That's just temporary and needs renewal, right? If he has that, he's out
of here, right? It's worth checking to see if he does. So send the feds down
there. I've got the address. Tell them to be on the lookout for a
ghoulish-looking fellow who speaks out of both sides of his mouth at the same
time.

"It all depends on how the person first entered the country," I was told.
"Usually, somebody vouches for the person...."

Aha! No chance. Nobody ever would have vouched for this piece of work. He must
have slipped in on the back of a Molson's truck - illegally!

"Please hold ..."

What a struggle. As you all know by now, Norm sold the North Stars to Texas
businessman Thomas Hicks on Monday. The purchase price was $84 million. But no
cash will change hands. Green's creditors will scarf it up. He's in debt up to
his thorax.

As it turns out, Norman never had a chance in Texas. He got out-snaked. Dallas
Mavericks owner Donald Carter couldn't stand him. Why? Good taste, I guess. In
any event, Carter, who could buy and sell Norm in the time it takes to say "boy
howdy," froze him out.

Carter even talked about financing a new suburban facility for his Mavericks,
leaving Norm behind in aging Reunion Arena. Eventually, when the city of Dallas
decided it wanted to discuss downtown arena construction, Carter delayed the
talks, waiting for debt-ridden Norm to go belly up.

Which he did. Like a guppy in stagnant water. I know, I know, it's sick how much
I'm enjoying this, isn't it? Well, too bad. You take the high road. I'll be
uncouth enough for everyone.

Actually, Green was talking to a different Texas businessman about selling. But
the word is he got the eager Hicks to give him a $5 million, 10-year deal to
serve as a "consultant," and then jettisoned his original suitor. I can just see
those consulting sessions now:

"If you tiptoe in behind the secretary, you can grab a kiss before she knows
what hit her!"

The consultant gig seems bogus to me. I don't think it counts as a real job and
didn't mention it to the immigration people.

"I suppose if a person went on a crime spree," said the Justice Department
spokeswoman, apparently exasperated that I wouldn't give up on this deportation
thing. "But really, sir, as long as the person has a green card, files income
tax returns ... "

Income tax returns! Why didn't I think of that earlier? All that money from the
sale coming in and then going straight out to the creditors. I'll bet that could
screw up a guy's taxes.

I thanked the person at the other end, then asked if she'd please give me the
number for the Internal Revenue Service.

Tom Powers' column regularly appears Sundays, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               77 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  January 21, 1996 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

CUBA CUTS FEES FOR IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: MAIN; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Yielding to pressure from the Clinton administration, Cuba has agreed to cut in
half the $600 fee it charges Cubans who receive U.S. immigrant visas, U.S. Rep.
Bill Richardson said Saturday. Richardson, D-N.M., spoke in a telephone
interview from Havana, where he had a five-hour session Friday night with
President Fidel Castro. About 1,000 Cubans eligible to resettle in the U.S. have
been unable to do so because they cannot afford the service charge.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               78 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  February 23, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

U.S. SCHOOLS FACE RECORD ENROLLMENT IN THE FALL

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 291 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Second-generation baby boomers and immigrants will pack America's schools in
record numbers this fall, surpassing the surge of postwar babies that filled
U.S. classrooms in the 1970s.

The estimated 51.7 million young people studying in public and private
elementary and secondary schools this fall will bring further stress to
districts coping with tight budgets. They will have to build schools, use more
portable classrooms, buy more books and schedule extra lunch periods.

This anticipated autumn enrollment will eclipse the 51.3 million baby boomers
who were in class in 1971. And U.S. school enrollment is expected to keep
climbing - to 55.9 million by 2005.

"It's a rather dramatic increase in enrollment that we see coming. Some of it is
immigration. Some of it is the baby boom echo - the children of baby boomers,"
Education Secretary Richard Riley said Thursday.

Elementary schools began seeing rising numbers of students in the mid-1980s as
the children of about 76 million baby boomers - born between World War II's end
and 1964 - headed to school, according to Tom Snyder, an Education Department
statistician.

That second generation of baby boomers is now moving through high school.
However, elementary schools have continued to feel enrollment pressure because
the number of births in America, bolstered by immigration, has remained steady
during the past four or five years, Snyder said.

To meet the need for space, school districts are building schools and additions
or making do with portable classrooms while keeping a close eye on
teacher-student ratio requirements in their states. Some districts are shifting
students by drawing new boundaries. Others are experimenting with holding school
year-round.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               79 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                February 28, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

CURB ON LEGAL IMMIGRATION PROPOSAL DRAWS CRITICS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 107 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Democrats, Republicans, business, labor and social service groups attacked a
bill Tuesday that would cut the number of foreigners allowed to immigrate to the
United States. Opponents led by Sen. Spencer Abraham, a freshman Republican from
Michigan, promised to lobby the Senate Judiciary Committee to split the bill in
two, separating new restrictions on legal immigration from popular measures that
get tough with illegal aliens. Critics hope fewer senators will vote for a
measure to curb legal immigration if it is separated from efforts to crack down
on up to 300,000 foreign-born people who cross the borders illegally every year.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               80 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  March 20, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

POSSESSION EQUALS DEPORTATION

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Resident aliens who possess any amount of illegal drugs must be deported and
cannot prove the "good moral character" that might allow them to return, a
federal appeals court ruled Tuesday. The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
rejected an appeal by a Nigerian citizen who arrived on a student visa and faced
deportation because of a February 1990 conviction for cocaine possession. Larry
Bazuaye, who is married to a U.S. citizen and has a child who is also a citizen,
was convicted of having a small amount of the drug while he was a student in Los
Angeles, said his lawyer, Judith Wood. She said Bazuaye was sentenced to
probation, no longer uses drugs and has no subsequent criminal record. The
ruling frees the Immigration and Naturalization Service to follow through on its
deportation proceedings against Bazuaye. And once deported, he will never be
allowed to re-enter.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               81 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  March 28, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

ASIAN IMMIGRANTS A PILLAR OF U.S. INDUSTRY;
STATISTICS STYMIE THOSE WHO WOULD BLOCK NEW ARRIVALS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 733 words


Nearly 12 years after Plia Thao arrived in America from a refugee camp in
Thailand, her dream came true in May: The native of Laos opened the first
Hmong-owned hair salon in the Twin Cities.

Seven days a week and up to 10 hours a day, the owner of Infinite Hair tends to
clients. "It's a small business, and I just opened, so I have to work all day,"
said Thao, who - in her mid-20s - is living out the immigrant dream of upward
mobility in America.

A new study, released Wednesday by an Asian-American advocacy group, cites the
experiences of many immigrants like Thao. The authors hope their report will
help debunk a widespread perception of immigrants as a welfare-sucking drag on
the national economy.

From Chinese high-tech executives in California's Silicon Valley to Thao's salon
on St. Paul's University Avenue, the study concludes that robust infusions of
newcomers create jobs and bolster America's competitiveness in the global
economy.

The study was conducted by Los Angeles-based Leadership Education for Asian
Pacifics (LEAP), Inc., a nonprofit group. The study comes as pro-immigration
forces seem to have gained, at least temporarily, the upper hand politically.

The U.S. House of Representatives recently scuttled efforts to curb legal
immigration. While the U.S. Senate could revive the legislation, even
anti-immigration forces are not optimistic about prevailing this year.

"There is simply no leadership in Congress," said Dan Stein, executive director
of the Washington-based Federation for American Immigration Reform. Stein's
group wants to dramatically curtail legal arrivals to America - from more than 1
million per year to about 300,000.

Politicians have tapped into a strong anti-immigrant mood in the country. Most
notable is Republican presidential candidate Pat Buchanan, who favors a
five-year moratorium on legal immigration, according to a campaign spokesman.

With such anti-immigration threats looming, the Los Angeles-based LEAP decided
to go on the offensive. Much of its research aimed to document the achievements
of Asian-Americans, the fastest-growing segment of the U.S. population.

Among the findings:

Second-generation Asian-Americans use welfare at a much lower rate than the
general population. (An assistant commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Human Services said no similar studies have been conducted on trends involving
state welfare recipients.)

Fifteen of America's most prominent high-tech companies, with combined revenues
of $22 billion, were founded by immigrant entrepreneurs from Asia and other
locations. In 1990, Asian-Americans headed 300 of the 800 high-tech firms in
California's Silicon Valley.

Sales and receipts of Asian-American-owned businesses exceeded $33 billion, with
a $3 billion annual payroll and 351,000 employees, in 1987.

Asian-Americans have among the highest naturalization rates, and registered
voters have one of the nation's highest electoral participation rates. Asian
immigrants had a 48 percent naturalization rate in 1990 compared to 36 percent
for Africans and 28 percent for Latinos.

Educating immigrant children forms a foundation for long-term academic
achievement. Among persons between 25 and 38 years of age in 1990,
Asian-Americans were twice as likely to have a graduate or professional degree
as non-Hispanic whites.

"Those who would claim to 'save jobs' by closing our borders must now contend
with the simple fact that immigration creates jobs," said Bill Ong Hing, an
associate law professor at Stanford Law School who is the report's lead
researcher.

Hing said LEAP is focused on preserving the current immigration system, rather
than lobbying for specific numbers of new arrivals.

Since 1965, U.S. residents have been able to sponsor immigration of foreign
relatives under a family-preference system that is under attack by
anti-immigration forces.

Anti-immigration politicians and activists, such as Stein, believe that the
United States should scrap the family-preference method.

Stein wants America to be more selective about whom it admits for residency. He
said the nation should focus on attracting highly skilled, highly educated
foreigners, rather than those who are merely relatives of U.S. citizens.

Stein calls his idea "refining the flow" of immigration away from people who
lack job skills and don't speak English.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FORUM
A public forum on LEAP's report will be held on April 12, from 9:30 a.m. to
11:30 a.m., at Hamline University in St. Paul. For information, call 641-2800.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Takushi, Pioneer Press
Plia Thao, who says she's the first Hmong to own a Twin Cities beauty salon,
works nine or 10 hours a day, seven days a week, as owner of Infinite Hair on
University Avenue in St. Paul. Here she gives a trim to Tiffiny Vue, 5, of
Brooklyn Center.

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               82 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   April 2, 1996 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

TAPE SHOWS 2 SUSPECTS' BEATING

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


In dramatic videotape aired repeatedly on television, Riverside County, Calif.,
sheriff's deputies on Monday violently clubbed two suspected illegal immigrants
after chasing a pickup crammed with 21 people. The videotape, by a camera crew
for KCAL, followed the 70-mile chase of the pickup that reportedly had evaded an
Immigration and Naturalization Service checkpoint. Neither the woman nor the man
appeared to offer any resistance or make any attempt to get away. The beatings
lasted a few seconds.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               83 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   April 4, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

PERMISSION TO ENTER;
WHILE PAT BUCHANAN SPEAKS OF THE NEED FOR A MORATORIUM ON LEGAL IMMIGRATION,
MANY AMERICANS AND THEIR DESCENDANTS BELIEVE THEY ARE LIVING PROOF OF WHAT
IMMIGRANTS DO TO STRENGTHEN THE COUNTRY.

BYLINE: BYLINE: John Kostrzewa, KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: BUSINESS TWIN CITIES; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 947 words

DATELINE: ELLIS ISLAND, N.Y.


Pat Buchanan has won political support by proposing to close the borders to
legal immigrants for five years. Buchanan says the flood of immigrants is
weakening America.

It's a strange idea to think about while standing in the Great Hall at Ellis
Island, where 12 million immigrants waited for permission to enter the country.

Many of the people who passed through the hall went to work in factories across
the Northeast. Others started small businesses.

One of those immigrants was Carmine Corvese.

He was 9 years old in 1915 when he climbed the stone steps into the Great Hall
on this speck of land in Upper New York Bay. His oldest brother, Mariano, had
sent for him, his four brothers and a sister to escape the poverty in southern
Italy.

The Corveses settled in Providence, R.I., and opened a fruit and produce market.
Over the years, the Corvese brothers, cousins and other relatives expanded the
business, selling produce both retail and wholesale.

Corvese's son, Carmine "Cal" Corvese Jr., tells the story of the winter day his
father, while delivering bananas on Federal Hill, stopped to help a young girl
who had slipped on the ice.

She was Elizabeth Lato. Her father, Carmino Lato, had also passed through the
Great Hall. He became one of the first pushcart peddlers on Federal Hill and
later was among the first wholesalers to import fresh vegetables by ship from
New York City.

Carmine Corvese married Elizabeth Lato in 1928. The family business continued to
expand, opening stores in Providence and Johnston, R.I.

Over the years, Corvese's regular customers were immigrants. They came from
throughout the old country.

Herta Hoffman arrived with her husband in 1939 from Vienna, Austria, to escape
Hitler. By then Ellis Island was being phased out as the country's main border
station. They landed at another pier in New York Harbor.

The Hoffmans made their way to Providence and started out working in a jewelry
factory.

"My husband, Bruno, and I began saving right away," says Hoffman. "We had hoped
to bring our parents here."

Later, Hoffman bought the Arcade Children's Shop and for 13 years ran the
clothing store in downtown Providence. Bruno Hoffman became an insurance man.

"Immigrants have always worked very hard," she says. "America was built on
immigrants and I see no reason to close it off. ... Look at the people who are
still coming."

She was referring to immigrants from South America, the Azores and Southeast
Asia.

Hguyen Hguyen was 12 years old when he and his family were evacuated by U.S.
Marines from Vietnam in 1975 on the day Saigon fell. His father was a government
worker and the invasion by North Vietnamese soldiers put his life in danger.

Hguyen, now 33, learned toolmaking as an apprentice at a local company. In 1989,
he opened Providence Machine & Tool Works, in Warwick, R.I. He employs six
people. Sales in 1995 were $300,000.

"There is a misconception that refugees and immigrants come here to live off the
dole and that's not true," he says. "I am the proof of what an immigrant can do
here to strengthen the country."

The Asians are the latest wave of immigrants to have shopped at Carmine Corvese
Jr.'s market in Providence. Since Corvese's Fruit Store opened in 1956, the
neighborhood has changed.

Corvese's customers in the 1950s and 1960s were Europeans - Irish, Polish,
Italian. In the 1970s, blacks moved into area. Then came Hispanics, followed by
the Asians.

Corvese says there have been some hard times. Supermarkets took away some of his
customers. Ethnic stores grew up around him. He had to change products to meet
the tastes of his new customers.

In 1989, people had trouble getting to Corvese's market for three weeks when the
city closed a street to demolish a housing project.

Still, he survived.

"As long as we've been able to roll with the punches, we've been able to make a
living for our families," he says.

During the last 40 years, members of four families have found work at the
market. Corvese employs three full-time and three part-time workers. Sales of
about $500,000 a year have helped him to put three children through college.

Corvese, 61, has heard Pat Buchanan's speeches about the need for a five-year
moratorium on immigration. Buchanan says the country needs time to absorb
financially and socially the record number of immigrants who recently arrived
and to preserve jobs for those already here.

"In the past, America's melting pot worked to forge people from diverse nations,
creeds and ethnic backgrounds into one people," Buchanan says, in a letter to
supporters.

"Now, that melting pot is broken and needs to be fixed."

Corvese has seen the problems of urban decay around his store and the drug use
that saps the strength of neighborhoods. He agrees some people might think he's
the type of hard-working stiff who would be attracted to Buchanan's message.

But he isn't.

"With all that's going on, I still can't see why we should close off the
borders," he says. "The foundation of America is that our doors are open to
everybody. As long as they comply with the law, why should we change that
history?"

As a boy, Corvese listened to his father's stories about the long voyage across
the ocean to come to America and about waiting in the Great Hall.

There, doctors checked the immigrants' health. Inspectors and translators made
sure they had documents to prove who they were and that they had enough money
for a train ticket to their new home.

Some people were turned away.

"My father told me about the people who were put back on the ship and sent back
where they came from," Corvese says. "It was a tragedy."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: MARY MURPHY, PROVIDENCE JOURNAL
Carmine "Cal" Corvese Jr., namesake of immigrant Carmine Corvese, says he
works 15-hours days, getting up at 2:30 a.m. to buy produce.

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               84 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    April 4, 1996 Thursday MINNESOTA EDITION

BEATINGS ADD TO STRAIN ON U.S.-MEXICO TIES;
CALIFORNIA INCIDENT COMES ON HEELS OF OTHER RECENT DISPUTES

BYLINE: BYLINE: JOHN RICE, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


The beating of two illegal Mexican immigrants after a high-speed chase by
California sheriff's deputies has opened new wounds in the already bruised
relationship between the United States and Mexico.

Mexico's Foreign Relations Department expressed "profound concern" that the
beating could affect relations between the two nations.

And the country's ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party said Wednesday that
the beating "demonstrates the degree of irrationality that racist and xenophobic
attitudes have reached in the United States, sometimes as a product of electoral
campaigns."

Relations were rocky before Monday's beating, and some saw the club blows by the
Riverside County sheriff's deputies - and the anger over them - as symptoms of
the strained ties as much as causes of them.

With a history of U.S. invasions, interventions and threats, Mexico generally
has tried to keep its northern neighbor at arm's length. But the sheer force of
geography and increasing flows of money and people across the 2,000-mile border
have pulled the countries together.

Relations between the United States and Mexico reached a high point in 1994 with
the North American Free Trade Agreement. Since then, they have been bumpy.

The anger over the beating joins disputes over crops, drugs, immigration and
Cuba on a list of differences that indicate many on both sides of the border
find the relationship too close for comfort.

Mexicans see racism - directed against them - in the growing U.S. campaign to
reduce immigration. They take offense at the 1994 California vote to slash
services to illegal immigrants and Republican presidential candidate Pat
Buchanan's frequent criticism of Mexican trade and immigration.

"I think that the verbal aggression by the senators or the U.S. executive was an
authorization for the physical aggression by the police," Sen. Jose Angel
Conchello of the conservative National Action Party, Mexico's second-largest
political force, said Wednesday of the California beating.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               85 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   April 26, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

BID TO CUT LEGAL IMMIGRATION KILLED ON 80-20 VOTE;
FAMILY-SPONSORED IMMIGRATION TARGETED

BYLINE: BYLINE: Carolyn Skorneck, Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate rejected a measure to reduce legal immigration Thursday, turning back
an effort revived by government projections that immigration will soar this
year.

The 80-20 bipartisan vote killed a proposal by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., to
reduce family-sponsored immigration as part of his bid to cut legal immigration
for five years by about 10 percent below current levels.

A failure to cut legal immigration "will contribute even more to the general
cynicism about Congress," said Simpson, chief author of the overall Senate
immigration bill. He claimed that polls show up to three-fourths of the
Americans support cuts in both legal and illegal immigration.

Many senators who opposed the amendment said limits on legal immigration should
not be inserted into the pending immigration bill designed to get tough on
illegal aliens.

"The legislation before the Senate right now aims to crack down on people who
break the rules, people who violate the laws, people who seek to come to this
country without having proper documentation to take advantage of the benefits of
America," said Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich.

Legal immigrants, on the other hand, "want to come to this country in a positive
and constructive way to make a contribution, to play by the rules and ... to
make a great, great addition to our American family," he said.

Rules dealing with such immigration should be given full attention in a separate
bill, which is pending, he said.

The House-passed version of the immigration bill focuses on illegal aliens and
would restrict their access to public benefits while doubling the number of U.S.
border guards.

In other action, the Senate:

Rejected, by 74-26, a measure to reduce legal immigration while guaranteeing
that parents and adult children of citizens would get some visas each year.

Passed by voice vote an amendment that would add domestic violence and stalking
as grounds for deporting aliens.

Minnesota roll call

The issue Legislation financing much of the federal government for the five
months left in fiscal 1996
Roll call vote House
399-25 Approved
How they voted
Democrats Yes No

Luther x

Minge x

Oberstar x

Peterson*

Sabo x

Vento x

Republicans Yes No

Gutknecht x

Ramstad x< *Did not vote
Wisconsin roll call [appreared only in Wisconsin edition]
The issue Legislation financing much of the federal government for the five
months left in fiscal 1996
Roll call vote House
399-25 Approved
How they voted
Democrats Yes No

Barrett x

Kleczka x

Obey x< Republicans Yes No

Gunderson x

Klug x

Neumann x

Petri x

Roth x

Sensenbrenner x

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               86 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   May 1, 1996 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

BILL TARGETS IMMIGRANT SPONSORS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 76 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate voted Tuesday to bar immigrants from public assistance programs if
the person sponsoring their move to the United States can support them. "There
are two choices," said Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., the immigration bill's chief
author. "Either a sponsor pays for a legal immigrant, or the taxpayers do." The
Senate bill says a sponsor's income would be deemed to be part of the
immigrant's income if that immigrant seeks public assistance.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               87 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    May 8, 1996 Wednesday WISCONSIN EDITION

REJECTED BY GIRLS STATE, TEEN GETS 'BETTER' INVITATION;
UW-WHITEWATER OFFERS WORLD STUDY PROGRAM

BYLINE: BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: EDGAR, Wis.


Barred from Badger Girls State because she isn't a U.S. citizen, a 16-year-old
Hmong immigrant has been invited to attend an international study program at the
University of Wisconsin-Whitewater tuition-free.

Pang Thao's mother said her daughter will attend the 20th annual World Affairs
Seminar, which will feature more than 1,000 students from around the world.

The invitation was issued after Thao's plight in being turned down to attend
Badger Girls State in Madison received media attention across Wisconsin, a
UW-Whitewater administrator said.

"This is precisely the kind of young lady we decided would make a great
participant. We decided to issue a tuition-free invitation," said Richard Lee,
the university's director of continuing education.

A faculty committee at Edgar High School selected Thao, a straight-A junior, to
be the school's delegate at the 53rd annual Badger Girls State in Madison in
June.

But June Benishek, secretary of the American Legion Auxiliary that sponsors the
week-long government-study program, said Thao couldn't attend because the
"Americanism program" was open only to U.S. citizens.

Pang Thao was born in a Thai refugee camp and has lived in the United States
since she was 2 months old. Her family was among thousands of political refugees
who came to the United States after the Vietnam War.

Her parents, Long and Chong Thao, passed their citizenship tests a year ago but
there have been delays in taking their naturalization oaths, the family said.

Until they become citizens, they can't apply for their daughter's citizenship.

There are no citizenship requirements for the UW-Whitewater World Affairs
Seminar June 9-14. For Thao, the topic of this year's program -democracy - could
have some irony for her.

About 250 of the participants will be foreign exchange students or students
coming directly from foreign countries, organizers said. Rotary Clubs are
involved in sponsoring students.

The keynote speaker will be Oscar Arias Sanchez, former president of Costa Rica
and 1987 Nobel Peace Prize winner.

"We're just happy for her," Thao's mother said Monday. "I told her maybe it
could be even better than Badger Girls State."

The teen-ager, frustrated that she met all the standards for Girls State but
still couldn't go, said she hadn't heard of the UW-Whitewater seminar until the
university called her high school principal late last week and invited her.

"It sounds really interesting. I am looking forward to it," she said. "It
doesn't make me feel any better, but I feel really good that someone has
considered enough to care."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               88 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   May 25, 1996 Saturday METRO FINAL EDITION

POSSE BAN AT AIRPORT CONTINUED

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 70 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


In an effort to avoid clashes between opposing sides on the emotional issue of
immigration, a judge Friday continued to ban a group called the Airport Posse
from entering the terminals of Lindbergh Field in search of illegal immigrants.
Judge William J. Howatt Jr. ruled that posse members can enter the terminals
only if they are catching a plane or escorting or meeting someone - not to look
for illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               89 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    June 30, 1996 Sunday METRO FINAL EDITION

A HOME OF THEIR OWN;
MANY SOUTHEAST ASIAN REFUGEES ARE MAKING THE LEAP FROM PUBLIC HOUSING AND AFDC
PAYMENTS TO HOME OWNERSHIP AND PAID WORK. THIS TREND IS HELPING TO REVITALIZE
PARTS OF ST. PAUL.

BYLINE: Brian Bonner, Staff Writer

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1575 words


Owning her own home gave Touch Kong more than a way out of the St. Paul public
housing project where she lived with her three children. It gave her the
motivation she needed to find a job and get off welfare.

"You have to own your own house to feel free," Kong said.

Last winter, she found a $37,000 house in St. Paul, then landed a manufacturing
job in Eagan for $7 an hour. A friend or her mother watches her kids when she's
working.

"It's very hard, but what can I do?" Kong said. "The kids like it here better.
... I just want to go up and up. When you work, you have a chance to buy
anything you want."

Kong, a native of Cambodia, is part of a homebuying surge now under way in local
Southeast Asian refugee communities. The spurt is transforming once-tired,
unstable pockets of East Side and Frogtown neighborhoods in St. Paul.

Fueled by attractive market forces and financial boosts from government and
private foundations, many families - such as Kong's - are using home ownership
as their step out of poverty.

For Vietnam War refugees such as Kong, home ownership is also a way to become
rooted in American society.

The National Immigration Forum, a nonprofit organization in Washington, D.C.,
said its research shows that immigrant homeowners are more likely than immigrant
renters to think of themselves as Americans.

The advocacy group also said that immigrants who rent are almost three times as
likely as all adult renters to list owning a home as their top priority.

"To immigrants, a home symbolizes permanence and integration into American
society," said Fannie Mae Foundation president Wendy Sherman, whose agency has
developed a free guide to home ownership for immigrants.

A lender's dream

Specific numbers are hard to come by. But some yardsticks exist: The
concentration of Asians in St. Paul public housing, which peaked at 80 percent
in 1992, is now 70 percent and falling. That's 750 fewer people. And, of 3,000
households on the waiting list for public housing, only 17 percent are Asian.

In addition, a Pioneer Press analysis of 1994 Federal Reserve data - the latest
available - showed that Asians in the metropolitan area have exceptionally high
mortgage-loan approval rates.

Overall, 82 percent of 1,296 Asian loan applicants that year were approved. For
those with incomes of $20,000 and below, 68 percent were approved - the highest
of any racial group, including whites. The statistics don't subdivide Asians
into smaller ethnic groups.

Cultural factors may be at work, home counselors said, in making Asian families
attractive candidates to lenders. Those factors include a greater emphasis on
pooling assets among relatives and a greater willingness for three-generation
families to share the same home.

Also, spurred by the federal Community Reinvestment Act to make local loans,
private lenders are looking more favorably on applicants with no credit history.
That category fits many immigrant and refugee families.

Chuck Prentice, executive director of the nonprofit Home Ownership Center in St.
Paul, said mortgage lenders are using "so-called alternative credit history -
including rental payment and utility payments - as documentation of people's
bill-paying habits. That's one factor that would lead to higher approval rates."

More Hmong in homes

The single largest Asian group in Minnesota is the Laotian Hmong, former
semi-nomadic highland farmers thought by some to be so unskilled that
assimilation into America would take generations.

For instance, an analysis of the 1990 Census by the St. Paul-based Hmong
American Partnership found that a mere 13 percent of Minnesota Hmong households
owned their own homes. That's far below the national average of 65 percent.

But some housing counselors believe that today, the home-ownership rate in the
state's 30,000-member Hmong community is closer to the national average than to
the 13 percent figure.

Some caution against painting an overly rosy picture. Southeast Asian refugees,
especially the Hmong, remain mired in welfare dependency and joblessness at
stubbornly high rates.

Alfred Hester, assistant to the executive director of the St. Paul Public
Housing Agency, is not convinced that all Hmong are moving up when they move out
of public housing.

"Some are moving down or holding steady," Hester said. "Even with reduced rents,
some can't make ends meet and move in with other people. Some go back and forth.
Some get thrown out. ..."

Still, the abundant success stories are cause for hope. And, in many cases,
heads of households - such as Kong - went straight from living in rental housing
and receiving welfare to owning homes and finding work.

Pao Yang, a counselor with North American Mortgage Co. in Bloomington, said his
company has found many direct links between home ownership and employment. In a
follow-up survey of 149 of his Southeast Asian clients last year, many who were
dependent on AFDC got either full-time or part-time jobs after buying their
homes, Yang said.

"That shows something," Yang said. "Those who buy a home will more likely try to
find employment to pay for the mortgage." In his two years on the job, Yang
said, the on-time payment history of clients has been exceptional.

Lengchy Lor, executive director of People's Network of Minnesota Inc., said that
- at least for the Hmong - there is a strongly ingrained preference to own. In
Laos, "we had no history of rent," Lor said.

Granted, the homes Hmong owned were dirt-floor huts with bamboo or wood-plank
siding. But that intense desire to own has shifted from rural Laotian villages
to inner-city America, from huts to three-bedroom ramblers. Part of what fuels
the desire to own is family size: The average Hmong-American household has five
children. That makes apartment life unappealing.

Lor's nonprofit organization has been active in counseling prospective
homebuyers through the maze of home-buying programs and mortgage options.

Of 700 families People's Network has counseled, including Kong's, 66 have
purchased homes. Still, Lor said, breaking the cycle of rent-and-welfare is slow
and tough. "It takes money, energy, understanding and education," Lor said.

Va Lor is another counseled by People's Network. He is a married father of seven
children whose family also moved from public housing to a private home.

"His family has a very limited income. He saved little by little and a lot of
relatives worked to help him up financially," said Vang Moua, a People's Network
home counselor who translated an interview with Lor.

"Many Hmong people, their dream is to own a home," Lor said. "The reason many
are living in public housing is they have no choice. They have no job. They
can't speak the language."

Lending a hand

One successful home-buying program, designed specifically for those in public or
other government rent-subsidized housing, is run by Thompson Associates.

The St. Paul business administers the Home Ownership Made Easy (HOME) program, a
joint effort by the McKnight Foundation-assisted Family Housing Fund and St.
Paul Public Housing Agency.

Thompson said 117 people in St. Paul alone - at least half of whom are Asian -
have purchased homes through the program, which makes low-interest loans or
grants for down payments and closing costs. The mortgages in the HOME program
are financed by the cities directly through the sale of mortgage-revenue bonds
at below-market rates.

"What's happening out there is really exciting," said Missy Thompson, the firm's
owner. "The HOME program was predicated on the fact that a lot of families
living in public housing or receiving Section 8 (government-subsidized rent) had
the potential to be homebuyers. They needed to know what homebuying is all about
... and a little financial help." She also said the default rate was only 3
percent.

One of the largest nonprofit counseling agencies is the Home Ownership Center in
St. Paul. In 1994-1995 alone, it counseled 2,792 households, of whom 722 bought
homes by the end of last year. Fifteen percent of the people who bought homes
were Asian.

Prentice said the center's staff counselors, including one who is Hmong and
another who is Cambodian, serve people who don't qualify for the HOME program.

"Most of our clientele is not in public housing, just because the HOME program
is there and has additional bells and whistles," Prentice said. "We, on the
other hand, catch people who don't qualify for that program and have to find
their best opportunity to buy in the general market."

And that's where a lot of the home-buying activity is taking place - the general
market. Housing counselors said all of the major private banks, mortgage
companies and other lenders are active in the Asian communities. And all types
of mortgages, from conventional to government-backed Federal Housing
Administration loans, are being sold.

Some lenders even have tailored programs or have hired loan counselors to break
language barriers in refugee and immigrant communities. Additionally, the number
of Hmong and other Asian-American real estate agents, counselors and
interpreters has also grown dramatically in recent years.

The National Association of Realtors, Prentice said, partly financed a local
training program for 19 interpreters in six languages, including Vietnamese,
Hmong and Cambodian.

Staff writer Jeffrey C. Kummer contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 Photos
1) Scott Takushi, Pioneer Press
Touch "Polly" Kong used to receive public assistance, but she now owns her
own home on St. Paul's East Side. Watching television in the living room are
her three kids, Phessette, 10, partly hidden at left; Molica, 7; and Pousa, 9.
2) Joe Oden, Pioneer Press
Va Lor was able to move his wife and seven children from public housing to a
private home with the help of the People's Network Minnesota Inc., which
counsels prospective homebuyers. Shown here with Lor are six of his childrenN:
from left in first row, Boonme, 8; Pheng, 7; Shyue, 9; and from left in back
row, Soua, 11; and Xiong, 10.
Graphic: Tim Van Ness, Pioneer Press
Hmong and home buying
Since the early 1980s, the racial makeup of St. Paul public housing changed
with an influx of Southeast Asian refugees from the Vietnam War. Now that
trend is in its fourth year of reversal, partly due to a homebuying surge.
The trends
In 1983, Asians - mainly the Hmong - became a majority in the city's
family=housing units, which provide shelter to 75 percent of teh city's 10,000
public-housing residents.
The family unites include the John J. McDonough Homes, Franklin Delano
Roosevelt Homes, Mt. Airy Homes and Dunedin Terrace, as well as single-family
sites.
The Asian concentration peaked at 80 percent in 1990 and stayed there until
1993. According to the latest figures, the concentration of Asians in public
housing dipped to 70 percent in April.
By contrast, Minneapolis public housing has never had a high concentration
of Southeast Asians among its 10,000 residents. In both cities, a small
percentage of government rent-subsidized voucher and certificate participants
in the Section 8 program are Asian.
For home-buying help, call:
People's Network of Minnesota in St. Paul, 778-9141
Thompson Associates in St. Paul, 644-2710.
Home Ownership Center, 1619 Dayton Ave., in St. Paul, 659-9336.
[Complete graphic available on microfilm.]

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               90 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    July 1, 1996 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

CUBAN BOXERS FLEE TRAINING CAMP

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 746 words


Just weeks before the Atlanta Olympics are set to open, two highly rated members
of the Cuban Olympic boxing team fled the team's training camp in Mexico and
sought asylum Sunday at a border crossing near San Diego, Calif., said a lawyer
who said he represents the men.

None of the details of the apparent defection could be confirmed, and some of
the details were sketchy. The boxers - Joel Casamayor, 24, a bantamweight who
won a gold medal four years ago at the Olympics in Barcelona, and Ramon Garbey,
a three-time amateur world champion in the supermiddleweight division - were
being held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the lawyer said.
Immigration officials at the border refused to comment.

But Luis Murillo Ebia, a sports reporter in Guadalajara, where the Cuban team is
training, said he interviewed Miguel Barrientos, the head of the Cuban sports
delegation, Saturday night and Barrientos had confirmed the boxers were missing.

An article on the boxers appeared in the Guadalajara newspaper, Siglo XXI,
Sunday morning. There is no telephone at the Cuban training camp, and Barrientos
could not be reached Sunday.

If true, the defections could prove a major embarrassment to the Cubans just
weeks before the Olympics in Atlanta and hurt the Cuban team's chances.
O'Neal insured:

On the eve of training camp in Chicago for Dream Team III, free-agent Olympians
Shaquille O'Neal and Gary Payton were making certain they were properly insured
during the eight-day moratorium on player signings.

Questions arose over the weekend about the amount of insurance USA Basketball
was carrying on O'Neal, and the Olympic team's organizing body agreed to pick up
the cost of an additional policy.

Payton's agent said he would double a $25 million policy to $50 million today.

Briefly:

With a flag at half-staff because of the recent bombing that killed 19
Americans, the United States defeated Saudi Arabia 2-0 in an Olympic soccer
tuneup for both teams at Oneonta, N.Y. Jovan Kirovski scored twice in the first
half for the United States.

Omar Luis held Team USA to five hits over seven innings and struck out nine as
Cuba's Olympic team proved poise and experience could handle the Americans'
hard-hitting attack with a 4-2 victory in Columbia, S.C.

It was Cuba's second consecutive victory over the Americans, who had won 18
straight before running across the favorites for the gold medal in Atlanta.

Olympian Jenny Thompson completed a four-event sweep in the Santa Clara (Calif.)
International swim meet, winning the women's 50-meter freestyle.

Sergey Mariniuk of Moldava, also an Olympian, earned his third championship of
the meet by winning the men's 200 individual medley in the final major tuneup
before the Olympics. The meet featured 59 Olympians from 20 countries.

U.S. Olympian Kurt Grote took the men's 200 breaststroke, and fellow Olympian
Brad Bridgewater swam 1:59.69 to win the men's 200 backstroke.

The U.S. Olympic women's softball team improved its record to 58-1 with a
doubleheader sweep over two St. Louis teams.

The U.S. team beat the St. Louis All-Stars 4-0 and the St. Louis Classics 1-0 on
a no-hitter by Michele Granger, who struck out 17, including the last 13
hitters.

Mary Joe Fernandez, who teamed with Gigi Fernandez to win the gold medal in
women's tennis doubles at the 1992 Olympics, was added to the U.S. Olympic team
by the U.S. Tennis Association.

Linford Christie, still undecided whether he will defend his Olympic title, won
the 100 meters at the BUPA Games. Christie, who already has been chosen captain
of the British Olympic team, will announce his decision at a London hotel today.

Jonathan Edwards, the world triple-jump record holder who missed the British
trials because of injury, won the event in the BUPA Games at Gateshead, England,
with a mark of 55 feet, 10 1/4 inches.

Jennifer Johnson, riding Tiger Run, edged veteran U.S. Olympic team member Bruce
Davidson to win top honors in the North Georgia International Open in
Chatsworth, Ga., a preparatory competition for the Olympics and the final outing
for the U.S. team.

Several top mountain biking pros said they would like to see the selection
process for the U.S. Olympic men's team modified, and Olympian Don Myrah
reflected the view of many when he said, "I'd like to see a selection process
based on your ability to compete against international riders and maybe closer
to the (Olympics)."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 18 Days

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               91 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    July 11, 1995 Tuesday MINNESOTA EDITION

FBI SAYS ITEMS FOUND ON FARM SUPPORT MIGRANT WORKER'S CLAIM;
MAN SAYS HE WAS HELD THERE AGAINST HIS WILL

BYLINE: BYLINE: Wayne Wangstad, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 513 words


Items seized from a farm near Milroy, Minn., appear to bolster an account of
intimidation, abuse and broken promises given to FBI investigators by a migrant
worker, according to a federal search warrant filed Monday.

Based on allegations from migrant worker Jose Amaro Solis, FBI agents on Friday
searched a Redwood County farm home that is the residence of Sergio and Gloria
Trevino, who are brother and sister.

The U.S. attorney's office said Monday that no charges have been filed and that
the investigation into involuntary servitude is continuing. Solis, a 34-year-old
Mexican citizen, told the FBI he was held in shackles and intimidated with a
firearm at the farm.

When investigators entered the Trevino residence, they seized various banking
records and notebooks with notations pertaining to workers; legal and
immigration documents; tax and identification records; and other items,
according to the search warrant.

An AK-47 rifle, a 9mm semi-automatic pistol, spent shell casings, rope and
pulleys also were confiscated by investigators led by FBI special agent Alfred
Bramucci, according to the search warrant inventory.

In an affidavit, Bramucci said he interviewed Solis the day before the raid. He
learned that Solis met Gloria Trevino in June near Mission, Texas, where he was
picking watermelons, and agreed to work for her in Minnesota.

When Solis arrived in Minnesota with three other workers, he found there already
were six or seven workers on the farm, according to the search warrant.

Solis said he worked 12 to 15 hours a day, seven days a week, picking rocks and
weeding beets in fields. There was no contract as Gloria Trevino promised, and
she told him he would receive no pay until he had worked for two months,
according to Solis.

Solis told the FBI he started to walk to town to make a phone call when the
Trevinos drove up and said he would be arrested if police saw him walking alone.
After he was returned to the farm, Solis claimed iron shackles with a long chain
were placed on his wrists so he could not leave, because the Trevinos allegedly
told him others would leave if Solis left.

The affidavit said the tan line on Solis' wrists bolsters his account of being
shackled while working in the fields until June 25, when he escaped. Solis also
said that while he saw no one else shackled, he had heard of another migrant
worker who had had ropes tied to his wrists and was hoisted off the ground in a
barn.

"Solis also stated that shortly after the Trevinos picked him up in their truck,
Sergio Trevino fired a gun into the woods in front of the workers. Sergio
Trevino then told them words to the effect that he did not want them to leave,
and that he could shoot any one of them and bury them in the woods. He further
stated that no one would ever know because there were a lot of trees in the
woods," the affidavit states.

It adds that on June 25, Solis escaped by getting up at 3 a.m. and walking 15
miles to Marshall, Minn.

The Trevinos do not have a published phone number and could not be reached
Monday.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               92 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   July 11, 1995 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

FBI SAYS ITEMS FOUND IN SEARCH SUPPORT CLAIM BY FARM WORKER

BYLINE: BYLINE: Wayne Wangstad, Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 208 words


Items seized from a farm near Milroy, Minn., appear to bolster an account of
intimidation, abuse and broken promises given to FBI investigators by a migrant
worker, according to a federal search warrant filed Monday.

Based on allegations by migrant worker Jose Amaro Solis, FBI agents on Friday
searched a Redwood County farm that is the residence of Sergio and Gloria
Trevino, who are brother and sister.

The U.S. attorney's office said Monday that no charges have been filed and that
the investigation into involuntary servitude is continuing. Solis, a 34-year-old
Mexican citizen, told the FBI he was held in shackles and intimidated with a
firearm at the farm.

When investigators entered the Trevino residence, they seized various banking
records and notebooks with notations pertaining to workers; legal and
immigration documents; tax and identification records; and other items,
according to the search warrant.

An AK-47 rifle, a 9mm semi-automatic pistol, spent shell casings, rope and
pulleys also were confiscated by investigators, according to the search warrant
inventory.

The affidavit said the tan line on Solis' wrists bolsters his account of being
shackled while working in the fields until June 25, when he escaped.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               93 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  October 25, 1995 Wednesday MINNESOTA EDITION

FORUM EXPLORES LIVES, PLIGHT OF MIGRANT WORKERS

BYLINE: BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 333 words


Migrant farm workers who drift into Minnesota and other states seasonally lack
suitable housing, health care and often have little say about how they're
treated, labor experts said Tuesday.

Migrant worker advocates and faculty from the University of Minnesota told of a
century-old plight for seasonal workers in the United States and elsewhere
Tuesday in the first forum of its kind at the college.

"This state, as every other state, depends on migrant labor to keep prices down
and we need to create a better situation for them," said Roslyn Wade, labor
standards director for the Minnesota Labor and Industry Department.

The forum was prompted by one of the university's advisory panels that asked the
school last year to delve into issues facing a work force that labors
intermittently in the nation's apple orchards, lettuce fields and meat
processing plants, said Josie Johnson, the university's associate vice president
for academic affairs.

Lupe Martinez, a former migrant worker and president of a national advocacy
group, portrayed a grim future for the mobile work force.

Among his findings:

Fifteen states have no job safety standards covering agricultural work.

Full unemployment insurance for farm workers is available only in four states.

Farm workers have a life expectancy 21 years less than the average American.

Farm workers have the lowest annual earning of all occupational groups in the
United States.

"These workers are almost always separated from the rural communities they live
in," said Martinez, who heads United Migrant Opportunity Services. "They are
forever outsiders."

Other experts told an audience of university students and community activists
that little has changed since the beginning of the 1900s to correct the ills.

Still, Johnson said public debate on the issue is a step toward change.

"We hope to prompt even more research into this area," Johnson said. "We hope
that one day an institute might to look into these issues."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               94 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                December 27, 1995 Wednesday METRO FINAL EDITION

MORE ARRESTS EXPECTED IN ALIEN SMUGGLING PROBE

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 95 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Clinton administration officials expect more arrests in the breakup of an alien
smuggling ring that sent thousands of Latin Americans and Asians into the United
States. The 10-month-old initiative surfaced with the arrest this month in
Ecuador of Gloria Canales, a 40-year-old Costa Rican woman. Its success resulted
from increased cooperation among Latin American governments, U.S. embassies and
agencies concerned with smuggling, the State Department said Tuesday. Officials
also credited U.S. intelligence "assets" in Rome, Mexico City and Bangkok,
Thailand.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               95 of 95 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                  April 25, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

WOMAN IN ASYLUM CASE FREED

SECTION: MAIN; Nation Briefing; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An 19-year-old from Togo was released from prison Wednesday by immigration
officials a year and a half after fleeing to this country to escape female
circumcision in her homeland. Fauziya Kasinga had been held as an illegal alien
since her arrival in New York in December 1994. She is at the center of a test
case that seeks to grant political asylum to women who face the operation, which
opponents call genital mutilation, in African and Middle Eastern cultures. A
hearing is scheduled next month.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved
