
                               1 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 12, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINO BABY BOOM PROPELS GROWTH SPURT HIGH BIRTHRATES LEAD SHIFT TOWARD MAJORITY
STATUS IN CALIFORNIA TRADITION, CHANGE IN IMMIGRATION LAW LEAD TO BIG FAMILIES
IN U.S.

BYLINE: JOHN HUBNER AND ANNE MARTINEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1813 words


In a sharp break from past patterns, the Latino population growth that is
transforming California is fueled not by immigration but by a baby boom among
the Latinos who are already here.

Even if no one else crosses the Mexican border, Latinos will probably become
California's ethnic majority within 50 years.

Latinos now constitute one-third of the state's population, but over the past
decade they made up 80 percent of its growth. Only 20 percent of Latino growth
was due to immigration, according to a study by the non-partisan Urban Institute
in Washington, D.C.

Two main forces are driving the surge in births: changes in federal immigration
law that drew many Latinas to California during the 1980s and '90s, and the
higher birthrates of Latinas, many of whom come from rural Mexico. They bring
with them an agrarian tradition that is built on large families.

The boom is likely to fade in coming years, as the next generation of Latinas
becomes more Americanized and their birthrates fall. But by the time it is over,
California's population will have been transformed.

The soaring population of Latino children promises to place significant demands
on the public schools, as well as on state-run health and early childhood
development programs. And it will force legislators -- who have spent much of
the past decade debating immigration policy -- to focus on domestic issues.

In many parts of the state, especially in rural areas, the transformation is
already well under way. In 39 of 58 counties, the Latino population grew by more
than 50 percent during the 1990s.

This population is young, and it is getting younger. Latino children make up the
single largest group of the state's school-age population.

The fertility rate for Latinas is higher than for any ethnic group in
California. In 1998, according to the state Department of Finance, Hispanic
women had an average of 3.3 children, while black women averaged 2.0, Asian
women 1.9 and white women 1.6.

A complex array of economic, cultural and religious factors account for this
disparity.

Because these mothers come from places where large families have long been
synonymous with security, they hold dramatically different views than
native-born Americans on what makes a large family. But their beliefs resemble
those of some other groups that have profoundly influenced American history,
such as the Irish immigrants of 150 years ago and Italian immigrants at the
beginning of the 20th century.

To these mothers, four children seems "manageable."

On a recent afternoon inside the Clinica de Salud in Salinas, Rufina Perez
nursed her month-old son, Bryan, and talked about wanting a "small" family --
four children in all. Working six days a week in the fields and taking night
classes at the local high school would make it difficult to have a larger
family, she explained.

"It'd be beautiful to have four children and give them the education that we
couldn't have," said Perez, who never enrolled in school in Mexico. Her
boyfriend, Porfilio Morales, completed the fourth grade. "When our kids go to
school, we're going to need to help them with their homework; right now we
wouldn't be able to."

FEARS PUT TO REST
IMMIGRATION ACT REUNITED FAMILIES

The change in immigration law that drew many Latinas to California is the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. It granted amnesty and green cards
to roughly 600,000 undocumented California workers, the vast majority Central
Valley farmworkers. They had left their wives, girlfriends and children in
Mexico, not wanting to expose them to the dangers of a border crossing or the
difficult existence of an illegal immigrant in the United States.

"I did not bring my family over here because I was afraid of la migra and of one
day getting deported," said Jose Villagran, who as a farmworker in the late '70s
and early '80s crossed the border illegally several times a year. "IRCA put an
end to those fears."

When Villagran received his green card in 1988, he brought his wife, Maria,
across the border from Durango. Today, the Villagrans live in Tulare, where they
are raising three sons and Jose works processing cotton.

"IRCA made it possible to raise my family as citizens," Villagran said.

With thousands of women like Maria following in her footsteps, the percentage of
California Latinas in their child-bearing years increased by 69 percent during
the 1980s, according to the state Department of Finance. Today in California,
there are almost 2 million Latinas between the ages of 15 and 44.

The average woman age 15 to 44 in rural Mexico has 3.5 children, which comes
close to mirroring the 3.3 rate among Latinas in California.

"There are very different patterns of family formation in rural Mexico,"said
Hans Johnson, a demographer who is studying Hispanic birthrates at the Public
Policy Institute of California.

In villages like those the Villagrans left behind, large families are an attempt
to achieve stability in an unstable world. Children were, in part, working
capital, for a family's income depended in part on how many children were
available to work in the fields. Social security and retirement benefits were
unheard of, so large numbers of children were also a way to ensure that someone
would care for parents when they were elderly.

"Women were having lots of babies because they thought half of them would die,"
said Claire Brindis, a professor at the Institute for Health Policy Studies at
the University of California-San Francisco, who points out that historically,
sanitation, immunization and nutrition were poor in rural Mexico.

In the last 30 years, sanitation and family planning have become more common,
even in remote areas. But living conditions in rural Mexico are far from those
in the first world and customs that have developed over centuries are slow to
change.

The higher birthrates also reflect, in part, the historic influence of the
Catholic church. Although Mexico has an aggressive national family planning
program, abortion is illegal in Mexico.

For Latinas, as for women of all backgrounds, not every pregnancy is planned.
Some Latinas who want contraceptives can't always get them. California's health
care system is unfamiliar to recent immigrants, and those without immigration
papers may be reluctant to access services for fear that they might be deported.

FAMILY PLANNING
CONTRACEPTION CONSIDERED

While the Latino boom is transforming cities across the state, the most dramatic
population increases are occurring in Central Valley towns such as Firebaugh, a
farming community of 5,700 in Fresno County.

Firebaugh is a beacon for farmworkers because the wide variety of crops in the
region -- tomatoes, cotton, sugar beets, melons and table grapes -- means there
is work almost year-round.

The prospect of jobs drew the family of Mayra Madriz to Firebaugh from rural
villages in Jalisco, Mexico.

Madriz, 22, just gave birth to her fourth child this month. Like all mothers,
she wants the best for her children. Although she became pregnant as a high
school sophomore, she married, moved in with her in-laws and continued going to
school.

She not only graduated with her high school class, she finished near the top.
She is taking classes at West Hills Community College in Firebaugh, hoping to
become a veterinarian.

"Education is everything," said Madriz, who is buying flash cards and
kindergarten books for her preschoolers. "Without education, there's just the
fields, and no mother raising children in Firebaugh wants that for her
children."

Madriz's values have been shaped, in part, by the Catholic church.

"Abortion is taking a baby's life, and why should we decide who lives and dies?"
said Madriz, who plans to have a tubal ligation now that her fourth child has
been born.

While religion shapes some mothers' decisions, others worry about the side
effects associated with some types of birth control. Persuading immigrant
mothers to protect themselves against pregnancy remains an obstacle at Clinica
de Salud, said Terry Gomez, a manager at the clinic. Part of her job is
demystifying birth control.

"You have to be really specific when you talk to them about it, so they know
what percentage of people actually become ill," Gomez said.

Eighteen-year-old Dioselina Tena isn't worried. The recent transplant from
Michoacan, Mexico, who is six months pregnant with her first child, wants to
have four children. She said she intends to use contraception to plan future
births.

"I have to take care of myself or else I'll have one child after another," said
Tena, who shares a two-bedroom apartment in Salinas with her husband, Samuel
Mesa.

Mesa said four children is ideal, far fewer than the eight or 10 childrenthat
was typical for his parents' generation.

FUTURE DECLINE
BIRTHRATE TO GO LOWER

As more Latinas acquire the tools to climb the ladder in America -- better
education, better jobs -- their birthrates begin to resemble those of
non-Latinos.

Ruben Solorio, 26, a San Jose native and father of a baby girl, has already
decided that he and his wife can't afford to have a second child.

"It's tough. I'm not rich. Will I not be able to send her to private school if I
have three children?" said Solorio, a graduate of Bellarmine College Preparatory
school and son of Mexican immigrants.

Current population patterns will require the state to do what Solorio is doing:
planning for the future.

Claire Brindis at the University of California-San Francisco is doing research
that shows that between 1995 and 2005, California's teenage population will grow
by 34 percent. Nationally, there will be only a 17 percent increase. In
California, Latinos will account for 58 percent of the growth.

"Early childhood development programs are great, but we can't stop at age 8,"
Brindis said. "To get the dividends from this generation, we need programs that
will continue through high school."

According to the National Council of La Raza, a Latino activist group in
Washington, D.C., Latino children are under-represented in childhood development
programs like Head Start and in after-school programs. In 2000, due in part to
poverty and the absence of services in rural areas, 57 percent of Hispanics over
the age of 25 had a high school diploma, compared with 88 percent of
non-Hispanic whites. Among Hispanics, 27 percent have not completed ninth grade;
among non-Hispanic whites, 4 percent have not completed ninth grade.

"California cannot wait until high school to start addressing educational
disparity," said Sonia Perez, a deputy vice president at La Raza. "These kids
are our future. We need to make some choices now so that in the long run, we
will all benefit."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
BIRTHS BY ETHNIC GROUP
Source: Department of Vital Statistics

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AN INCREASE
In 1999, Hispanics accounted for nearly half of all births in California, up
dramatically from a decade ago.
1990: 40%
1999: 48%

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Map, Chart;
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Mayra Madriz's sons Marcelino, left, and Javier, right, pat her belly shortly
before she gave birth to her fourth child. She is holding son Antonio in their
Firebaugh home.
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Dr. Marcia Sablan, center, listens to the heartbeat of Julia Ramirez's baby at
the Sablan Clinic in Firebaugh as Ramirez's husband, Icidoro Ramirez, hears the
heartbeat of the first time.
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Mayra Madriz holds Antonio, one of her three sons, outside their Firebaugh home
as his brothers Marcelino, left, and Javier, 5, investigate a goldfish tank.
Madriz gave birth to her fourth son this month and plans a tubal ligation to
prevent future pregnancies.
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Latino births
Source: Department of Vital Statistics

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 11, 2001 Friday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

PROTESTERS RALLY AGAINST LAWS DENYING DRIVER'S LICENSES TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE MARCH TO REDWOOD CITY DMV OFFICE

BYLINE: KAREN DE SA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 409 words


Hundreds of Latinos joined a boisterous march from a community church to the
Department of Motor Vehicles in Redwood City Thursday to protest laws that
prohibit undocumented immigrants from obtaining a driver's license.

Waving Mexican flags and shouting "Queremos licensias!" and "Si, se puede!" --
"We want licenses! Yes, we can!" -- the residents of Menlo Park, East Palo Alto
and North Fair Oaks ended their march with a rally led by representatives from
San Mateo County government and the state Legislature.

Marchers -- who included gardeners, painters, housekeepers and their children --
argue that hard-working immigrants deserve the right to drive legally and to
obtain car owner's insurance. Since 1993, undocumented immigrants have been
denied this right.

"People need to be able to drive to work, to support their families," said
Francisco de Leon, one of the event's organizers and a member of the locally
based Bay Area Gardeners Association. "We can't ignore millions of people who
are here illegally."

The event's organizers join protesters up and down the state: Similar marches
have been held recently in San Jose and Sacramento and upcoming rallies are
planned in the Latino communities of Redding and Santa Ana.

Organizers want passage of Assembly Bill 60, a bill now in the appropriations
committee that would modify an existing law that requires driver's license
applicants to present a Social Security number. If passed, the bill sponsored by
Assemblyman Gilbert Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, would grant licenses to anyone who
has a Taxpayer Identification Number.

David Galaviz, a Cedillo spokesman, said 33,000 people joined rallies last year
for a bill similar to AB 60 that Gov. Gray Davis did not sign into law, citing
fraud concerns.

This is the first time residents of San Mateo County joined the protest
movement. The march and rally in Redwood City -- the seat of county government
-- drew support quickly and spontaneously, as word flew through Spanish-speaking
churches, parks, supermarkets and schools. They got support from the office of
county Supervisor Rose Jacobs Gibson, whose chief aide Juan Carlos Prado was the
founder of the Bay Area Gardeners Association.

"Taxpayers who contribute to this economy should have the right to drive legally
on the streets and highways," Gibson shouted through a bullhorn from a perch on
the back of a flatbed truck. "This is an issue of dignity and respect."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Sergio Tafolla, foreground, leads a rally protesting laws that prohibit illegal
immigrants from obtaining driver's licenses. While the event was a first for San
Mateo County, similar ones have been held throughout the state.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 21, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL SEEKS TUITION BREAK FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS SOME WOULD PAY AT IN-STATE RATE

BYLINE: BECKY BARTINDALE, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1105 words


Janitor Marilu Solorio, who cleans offices for a living at Cisco Systems in San
Jose, says her dream is for her son Paul to get a college education.

That is Paul's dream, too. But because he was born in Mexico, Solorio fears her
19-year-old's ambition to become a graphic designer may remain just a dream
unless California reverses its policy charging expensive non-resident tuition to
some immigrants living here illegally.

Today, undocumented California high school graduates who do well academically
can compete for admission to state colleges and universities along with everyone
else. But once they get in, they have to pay tuition as much as 11 times higher
than legal California residents pay. They also aren't eligible for
state-subsidized financial aid.

"I'm afraid he won't be able to realize his plan," Solorio said. "The cost of
tuition at the university is too high."

The best hope for students such as her son, Solorio said last week at a news
media event at James Lick High School, is a bill that would allow some
undocumented students to get financial aid and pay in-state fees at California's
public colleges and universities.

Foes say such perks are a magnet for illegal immigration and are benefits
conferred at the expense of people living here legally.

Hearing set

The bill faces a critical Senate appropriations committee hearing next week.
Supporters say they expect it to pass the state Legislature.

Gov. Gray Davis vetoed a similar measure last year, but Assemblyman Marco
Firebaugh, D-Cudahy, contends he has addressed the governor's objection: that
the changes would violate federal law by conferring a benefit on someone here
illegally that is not available to legal residents. Now, the bill would extend
the in-state fee structure to any U.S. resident who meets the requirements.

As California continues its long debate over how to treat undocumented
immigrants, other states are expanding their rights. President Bush himself has
signaled the changing national political climate by proposing legalization of
longtime undocumented residents.

Texas allowed in-state tuition for some undocumented residents this year, and
Wisconsin lawmakers have recommended their state do the same. North Carolina is
also considering in-state tuition for undocumented immigrants.

"This is not being received as a fringe bill anymore," said Firebaugh, chief
architect of AB 540. By increasing college opportunity for students who do well
in school, "it's in keeping with mainstream American notions about rewarding
success."

Higher education leaders and many community groups have embraced Firebaugh's
proposal. At a rally last week in San Jose, labor, education and political
leaders pledged their support to more than 40 janitors, part of Service
Employees International Union Local 1877's Justice for Janitors campaign.

Supporters argue that making education more accessible would give academically
qualified students -- many of whom eventually will become legalresidents -- a
chance at breaking into the economic mainstream. Many of their parents have been
granted amnesty by the federal government, they contend, and are awaiting their
acceptance as citizens, so in the meantime, they have been paying taxes and
should reap some of the benefits of residency for their children.

Opponents speak out

But across the country, groups that favor tighter immigration controls are
rallying against such changes.

"We are asking the American taxpayer in various states to subsidize public
higher education for people who are in the country illegally," said Ira Mehlman,
media director for FAIR, the Federation for American Immigration Reform. While
that may be popular with politicians, he said, "I don't think it is terribly
popular among rest of population."

University seats are limited, Mehlman said, adding: "Any time you say 'yes' to
someone who's here illegally, you are saying 'no' to someone else who isn't."

"All these things cumulatively give an incentive for people to come to this
country illegally," he said. "You are rewarding people."

Economist Belinda Reyes, a research fellow at the Public Policy Institute of
California, sees the equation as more complicated.

"The truth is that many of these families are contributing taxes and taking very
little," she said.

Most do not come to this country for the social services, she added. Immigrants
leave their home countries when they can't get work or because they have
personal networks here, she said. Many are lone males who work here awhile, then
return home.

Reyes agrees there was a dramatic change in the political climate as the economy
improved and more immigrants became engaged politically, partly in response to
campaigns targeting immigrants, such as California's Propositions 187.

Change in rhetoric

"The momentum is for incorporating and embracing," Reyes said, "talking about
contributions instead of how much benefits they use. The rhetoric is very
different."

That change is reflected in AB 540. The bill would allow waivers of non-resident
tuition at community colleges, California State University and the University of
California for students who have attended a high school in the state for at
least three years and graduated.

The cost difference is big. At community colleges, it's $130 per unit vs. $11
per unit for in-state students. At UC, tuition for non-residents is $10,700 a
year vs. about $4,000 for in-state students. At CSU, excluding campus fees,
non-residents pay $8,800 while in-state students pay $1,430.

The bill also would allow these students to apply for financial aid, including
the state's newly expanded Cal Grant guarantee program.

College officials say they have no idea how many undocumented students might
respond.

CSU and the community colleges have endorsed AB 540. UC "supports the policy," a
spokeswoman said, but is studying the bill's legal and fiscal consequences
before taking a formal position.

Firebaugh estimates 5,800 to 7,450 students a year would be eligible for waivers
and that most would attend community colleges initially. His office projects a
cost of $6 million a year for financial aid.

Marilu Solorio's son is waiting to see what happens in Sacramento. Paul already
has graduated from high school and is saving his money from bus boy work to
attend Evergreen Valley College, where he will pay the non-resident rate this
fall. He hopes eventually to transfer to San Jose State University if he can
afford it.

"I want to do Web design and graphics for magazines and CDs," he said. "That's
my goal."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHAT THE BILL WOULD DO
* COST DIFFERENCE:
At community colleges, it's $130 per unit for non-residents vs. $11 per unit for
in-state students. At UC, tuition for non-residents is $10,700 a year vs. about
$4,000 for in-state students. At CSU, excluding campus fees, non-residents pay
$8,800 while in-state students pay $1,430.
* PROVISIONS: The bill would allow some undocumented students to get financial
aid and pay in-state fees at California's public colleges and universities.
* WHAT'S NEXT: The bill faces a critical Senate appropriations hearing next
week.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JUDITH CALSON -- MERCURY NEWS
Janitors hear San Jose Unified School District Superintendent Linda Murray at a
news conference supporting lower tuition.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 22, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TIJUANA HOTEL HEADQUARTERS FOR IRAQI CHRISTIAN REFUGEES IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS
INVESTIGATE, DETAIN 150

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


In the past six months, a shabby hotel on a Tijuana side street has become an
internationally known way station for Iraqi Christians seeking political asylum
in the United States.

But the hotel Suites Royal was a jail Thursday for about 150 men, women and
children detained by Mexican authorities as part of an investigation into
possible immigration violations.

"I say to you: Death or asylum -- nothing else!" shouted one of the Iraqis,
Talale Hanna, as he leaned out a window of the four-story hotel Thursday.

Other Iraqis stared out the hotel's dusty window at American relatives waiting
below. They were prohibited from leaving by Mexican federal police in the lobby
and courtyard, some of them carrying M-16 rifles. Hanna said thatadults inside
were on a hunger strike and haven't eaten in two days.

Iraqi refugees, according to relatives, have been staying at the hotel while
waiting for U.S. authorities at the nearby border crossing in San Diego -- the
world's busiest -- to process applications for political asylum. As some made it
across, others came from around the world.

"This place is like the headquarters," said Mikha Faris, a U.S. citizen whose
sister and brother-in-law are inside the hotel. "Everything was cool; nobody
knew what was going on."

But that changed Wednesday. Mexican authorities surrounded the hotel and took
four of the Iraqis into custody as suspected immigrant smugglers.

It was unclear what prompted the sudden crackdown or what specific charges the
Mexican authorities were investigating. Relatives said Mexican police became
aware of the Iraqis after residents of the hotel said they were robbed earlier
this month of $4,000.

The crackdown prompted others to head to the border, relatives said. Forty-five
went to the San Ysidro Port of Entry in San Diego and asked for asylum Wednesday
and an additional 31 on Thursday, including 29 children.

Most are being held while the Immigration and Naturalization Service processes
their requests, said Mary Ann Freeman, an INS spokeswoman. Two women and a child
were granted humanitarian parole and released to U.S. sponsors, officials said.

The number of Iraqi Christians seeking asylum at San Ysidro has undergone a
"substantial increase" over the past year, said Robert Looney, director of the
regional asylum office for the INS.

Last year, San Ysidro had few, if any, applications by Iraqi Christians. In the
last two months alone, they received 172, Looney said. They can get asylum if
they can convince authorities they have a "credible fear" of persecution in
their home country, and many manage to do so.

U.N. sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990 forbid air travel in or
out of Iraq, so the Iraqis were forced to come overland. Most of them traveled
through Jordan, Turkey or Greece, relatives said.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TOM KURTZ -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Iraqi refugees hoping to gain political asylum in the United States stand on a
balcony of the hotel where they are being held by Mexican authorities.
[000922 CA 27A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 22, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT REINSTATES LAWSUIT OVER INS RESIDENCY POLICY

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 208 words


Thousands of illegal immigrants won a step toward legal residency Tuesday when
an appeals court reinstated a lawsuit contending that an illegal Immigration and
Naturalization Service policy barred their applications for legal status.

The case involves the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 that made
illegal immigrants eligible for amnesty, and legal residency, if they had lived
in the United States since the start of 1981 without committing a serious crime.
They were required to apply by May 1988 and some 2.7 million illegal immigrants
were awarded residency, the first step toward U.S. citizenship.

But an estimated 200,000 applicants were denied.

The INS first interpreted the law to bar amnesty for anyone who had left the
United States for even a brief period since 1981. Numerous amnesty applicants
were turned away, and many others said they were discouraged from applying
before the policy was ruled illegal in 1988 and replaced with one that allowed
brief departures.

On Tuesday, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed its own 1999
decision, in which it ruled that illegal immigrants who claimed they were
prevented from seeking legal status in 1987-88 missed the deadline to file their
legal challenge.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE BRIEFS
SAN FRANCISCO

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 10, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POWER GRANTED INS INSPECTORS TO DENY ENTRY SPARKS CONCERN CRITICS WORRY REFUGEES
WRONGLY RETURNED HOME

BYLINE: FREDRIC N. TULSKY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 956 words


Perhaps no aspect of U.S. asylum law raises as much concern as a provision of
the 1996 Illegal Immigration and Immigrant Responsibility Act that gives
inspectors at airports and ports of entry the authority to turn away arriving
foreign citizens with no independent review.

The law, which created a procedure for the expedited removal of immigrants who
arrive without valid travel documents, has proved an effective tool for
inspectors, particularly along the Mexican border, in turning away people who
seek to enter the United States illegally. In the first three years of expedited
removal, more than 90 percent of those turned away were Mexican, most of whom
presumably had no fear of persecution at home and so wereineligible for asylum.

But many officials, in and out of government, are concerned that inspectors,
under pressure to keep illegal people out, will wrongly turn away some refugees,
either for failing to recognize an asylum seeker or disregarding the danger the
immigrant faces.

"I have a real concern that the process makes it likely that survivors of
torture are being returned for further torture and death," said Dr. Allen
Keller, director of the Bellevue-New York University program for survivors of
torture.

Keller said many reasons could prevent asylum seekers from telling airport
inspectors of their fears. Many are fleeing situations in which they have been
shackled, interrogated and abused by uniformed officers, and questioning by
uniformed INS inspectors might intimidate them further. And many asylum seekers
speak little or no English.

Though regulations require that interpreters be available, many detainees later
describe going through the process with little if any understanding of what was
happening. Often the interviews are in halting English or with airline personnel
serving as translators; in a pinch, inspectors are supposed to conduct the
interviews by phone, with an international operator doing the translation.

In a January 1999 case, an Albanian Kosovar who spoke no English and understood
little flew into California from Mexico. When inspectors found he lacked a valid
passport, the man was held for questioning. Because of his language problems,
the interview was conducted by telephone, with the aid of a translator. But the
translator was of Serbian descent, the ethnic group that was persecuting
Albanians in Kosovo.

The Albanian said he was sent back to Mexico City without being asked about
facing danger back home. His story became known only after he managed, in a
second effort, to fly into Newark Airport in New Jersey, where he got through
expedited removal and was able to apply for asylum.

The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights raised his case this October in a report
identifying several instances in which asylum seekers reported being wrongly
turned away. But because the INS limits outsiders from seeing the inspection
process, no one knows how often such instances occur.

"One of the most distressing parts of expedited removal is that there is no way
for us to know how many deserving refugees have been excluded," said Sen.
Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., a critic of the system.

One expert who has been denied access is Karen Musalo, a resident scholar at the
University of California's Hastings College of the Law, who has been studying
expedited removal for three years.

She said a recent General Accounting Office report that generally approved of
the INS's handling of expedited removal, after reviewing hundreds of case files,
is flawed: "The question is not what inspectors are writing down, but what they
are doing. And we simply have been prevented from finding out the answer to that
question."

In June 1999, staff members from Senate and House immigration subcommittees did
have an opportunity to see the secure inspection area at John F. Kennedy Airport
in New York.

The staff members were ushered in to one of the INS inspectors to question him
about his job; three would later express shock at what they heard. The three
each recalled the inspector calling asylum seekers "people with cockamamie
stories and phony documents," whom he "sends on a plane right out of here."

Stephanie Peters, the minority counsel for the House Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, afterward said the idea of refugees having "their freedom
determined by someone like that" was "unthinkable."

Many refugees say they are haunted by the inspection process long afterward. "I
was terrified," said an Afghan woman who found herself chained for hours to a
bench in the inspectors' interview room at Kennedy, after she had made a
harrowing escape from Taliban rule last October.

With her sister translating, the woman said she fainted while chained to the
bench. "When I was chained, I first thought they were taking me back like that
to Afghanistan," she said.

A man from Zaire, in an interview, described breaking down and crying from fear,
after inspectors at Logan Airport in Boston told him that he was being sent
home. The officials relented, he said, only when they realized hispants were
soaked in blood from wounds caused by torture. He has since won asylum.

And a 37-year-old Tamil male from Sri Lanka said: "I came here to get away from
problems in my country and was treated worse here." An airport inspector had
unchained the man from a bench, hours after he arrived, and led him to a
bathroom where he took his money and sexually molested him. The asylum seeker
said that after the incident, "I had many bad feelings. I was very distrusting."
He was granted asylum last year.

In June 1999, the inspector was convicted of sexually molesting the Sri Lankan
and two other arriving immigrants and of taking money from two of them.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: Page 1A
UNCERTAIN REFUGE: A MERCURY NEWS SPECIAL REPORT

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 14, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMNESTY FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS, CHANGES TO IMMIGRATION POLICIES ABANDONED AID
FOR SOME REFUGEES, BLANKET AMNESTY PLAN WERE BARRED BY GOP

BYLINE: BART JANSEN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration has retracted a demand to grant amnesty to about 1
million longtime illegal immigrants.

Meanwhile, a two-pronged plan to expand a visa program for agriculture workers,
and allow just as many illegal farmworkers to stay in the country, appears to be
dead.

President Clinton had sought amnesty for illegal immigrants who arrived before
1986. He also wanted to restore a program that allows illegal workers with work
permits to pay fines rather than return to their home countries before obtaining
green cards.

But Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., said the blanket amnesty would
never be approved. Also dropped from negotiations with White House officials was
a proposal to offer green cards to refugees from Guatemala, Honduras, El
Salvador and Haiti under easier terms that Cubans and Nicaraguans now enjoy,
according to officials on both sides.

Democrats demanded this provision to help victims of civil wars, but Republicans
said the proposal unfairly picks which immigrants get benefits.

Central Americans are "definitely not on the table," said Maria Echaveste,
Clinton's deputy chief of staff. "The White House made it clear we want it, and
Republicans made it clear that they won't have it, no way, no how."

However, Republicans are offering to revive the program, which allows illegal
immigrants to pay fines to stay in the country while they apply for permanent
residency. Under the program called 245i, illegal immigrants with work permits
who are applying for green cards could pay a $1,000 fine rather than return
home, where they would have to wait three to 10 years before they could return
to the United States.

Another GOP proposal would offer appeal hearings for immigrants who arrived
before 1982 but were denied inclusion in an earlier amnesty program. A related
measure would help the immigrants' spouses and children of minor age remain in
the United States.

The total GOP offer disappointed Democrats who fought for the broader
provisions.

"Under this agreement, too many people who contribute every day to the
well-being of this country were denied the relief they need and deserve," said
Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill.

He said if the latest GOP offer stands, it would signal that Congress and
Clinton "declined to address several profound inequities in our nation's current
immigration policy."

Meanwhile, in a major blow to the agriculture lobby, Lott said farmworkers won't
be included in the package of immigration proposals that have emerged from
negotiations with the White House.

Anthony Bedell, a lobbyist for the American Nursery and Landscaping Association,
vowed to continue fighting for the measure, but acknowledged "some political
leaders are reading the compromise its last rites."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 22, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON SIGNS NEW LAW FOR IMMIGRANTS LEGISLATION EASES RESIDENCY CRITERIA

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 954 words


About 700,000 mostly undocumented immigrants -- many in the Bay Area -- can
apply to become permanent legal residents under long-stalled legislation that
President Clinton signed into law Thursday.

More than half of them, including Manuel Anaya of San Jose, had been waiting for
this since 1986, when the Immigration and Naturalization Service denied their
applications for the general amnesty that legalized 2.7 million people.

"We're going to have a wonderful Christmas knowing we will become documented,
and obtain work permits and get our driver's licenses," said Anaya, a
32-year-old construction supervisor originally from Mexico. "The majority of
applicants now have roots here. We own homes, work and raise families."

Under the 1986 amnesty program, immigrants such as Anaya were wrongly turned
away or rejected because they had briefly left the country -- such as trips home
for the holidays. The new law, tucked into a budget bill, will allow Anaya and
others to reapply.

It also restores for four months a program that allows eligible illegal
immigrants to apply for residency without leaving the country, known as Section
245(i). In addition, the bill establishes a new visa to speed up the process of
reuniting qualifying family members in foreign countries with their loved ones
in the United States.

But it falls short on key provisions pushed by Democrats that would have
extended the program to at least another 100,000 immigrants, prompting some
within the party to criticize Clinton for signing the bill. With Republican
George W. Bush headed to the White House, it is unclear whether Democrats will
succeed in getting broader legislation passed in the next congressional session.

One provision would have provided residency to illegal immigrants who have lived
continuously in the United States since 1986; the existing cut-off date is 1972.

The other sought to hand residency to immigrants who fled El Salvador, Honduras,
Guatemala and Haiti because of political unrest and economic instability -- the
same reasons that lawmakers cited when they passed a similar measure that gave
Nicaraguans and Cubans a chance at residency in 1997.

Democratic leaders are vowing to re-introduce the so-called "CentralAmerican
parity law."

Some political observers say such a bill could be the first major test for Bush
and the influence he has on the conservative GOP leadership in Congress. Bush,
who tried to improve relations with Mexico as Texas governor, proved to be a
Latino-friendly candidate throughout the presidential campaign and has already
appointed Latinos as his White House counsel and housing secretary. But his
party's conservatives in Congress, who control the committees that deal with
immigration, haven't enjoyed the same reputation.

"George Bush has talked a lot about how much he loves Hispanics, and he's made a
few noises about immigration being good, but he hasn't said anything specific,"
said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, D.C., a think tank that favors reduced levels of immigration.

"President-elect Bush made a lot of speeches about being more inclusive, about
trying to be more welcoming of immigrants," Maria Echaveste, Clinton's deputy
White House chief of staff, said. "The challenge on this, and probably every
other issue, is whether he's going to move to the center and try to build
bipartisan support, or if he's going to succumb to the right wing of his party."

The immigration proposals that were signed into law Thursday, and the ones left
out, were among the most important issues for Latinos during a year when
candidates and campaigns tried harder than ever to win their confidence -- and
their votes.

As the Nov. 7 election approached, the candidates and their congressional
surrogates stepped up to a countless number of Spanish-language broadcast
microphones, each side trying to win support for their legislation.

The dynamic changed after the election, as soon as it was evident that Bush
defeated Vice President Al Gore. The White House lost influence. And Clinton
withdrew his threatened veto, upsetting, even angering, Latino immigrants and
their advocates.

"While the agreement on immigration legislation includes some improvements,
including protection from long-term separation for some family members, most of
the proposed Latino and Immigration Fairness Act has been ignored," said
attorney Mark Silverman, director of immigration policy at Immigrant Legal
Resource Center of San Francisco.

Immigration-control advocates lobbied against the legislation by repeatedly
labeling it an amnesty.

Groups such as the California Coalition for Immigrant Reform were most upset
with the provision to change the registry date and the restoration of 245(i),
which allows certain illegal immigrants to apply for residency by paying a
$1,000 fine and remaining in the country -- thus avoiding a process that used to
require applicants to leave the country for up to 10 years.

Section 245(i) "is nothing more than another amnesty to illegal alien
lawbreakers," said Barbara Coe, the coalition's press officer. "They pay the INS
a grand, and they get to stay -- that's not a problem for them, they can easily
save that out of the welfare checks we give them."

Rogelio Ocampo, a 26-year-old bank employee who lives in the South Bay, is more
than willing to pay the fine. He's undocumented. His wife is a U.S. citizen. But
if he applies for residency without 245(i), he would be ordered to leave the
country for 10 years.

"The new law helps a lot of us -- I won't have to be separated from my wife,"
said Ocampo, who now plans to attend college to study engineering.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PROVISIONS OF LEGISLATION
The new immigration law signed Thursday will:
Allow about 400,000 people to petition for permanent residency -- if theybelong
to any of three class-action lawsuits filed after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service rejected their applications in the 1980s.
Allow eligible illegal immigrants to pay a $1,000 fine and file for residency
without having to leave the country to apply.
Establish a new visa for spouses and minor children of permanent residents who
have been stuck in a backlog to legally immigrate to the United States.
Source: U.S. Congress

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 5, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'GREEN CARD' PITFALLS UNSCRUPULOUS 'CONSULTANTS' EXPLOIT IMMIGRATION LAW
MISINFORMATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 601 words


To people who've settled in this country without the proper immigration papers,
the word "amnesty" has a special meaning. It brings up memories of a broad
federal program in the '80s that led to legal status for millions of
undocumented longtime residents.

In late December, Republicans in Congress blocked another much-hyped amnesty
plan pushed by the Clinton administration. Instead lawmakers approved
half-hearted revisions to the immigration code.

Too limited, too complex, that action was far from granting amnesty.

But the amnesty label has stuck to the legislation -- and this misnomer has
cruelly raised the expectations of illegal immigrants. Many believe they'll get
green cards, those coveted documents that allow the foreign-born to live and
work here. U.S. citizenship often follows.

The confusion is deep. In mid-January several groups, including Catholic
Charities and the East San Jose Community Law Center, sponsored a forum on the
law at the Mexican Heritage Plaza in San Jose. Two thousand people showed up,
even though there only was room for 500. A later event brought 1,200 more. These
scenes of hope and desperation are being repeated from the Bay Area to Los
Angeles.

At the community forums, illegal immigrants learn the hard reality of how far
the revisions are from blanket amnesty.

Some provisions, for example, apply only to immigrants involved in three
class-action lawsuits over government errors in their files dating back to 1986.

Other provisions allow certain immigrants here illegally to apply for green
cards without leaving the United States. But they must have close family members
who are U.S. citizens or have employers to support them, and they must file
their applications by April 30.

Estimates vary, but hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants will get legal
status because of last December's changes. Many others won't.

Responsibility to inform people about this falls on the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. We could write an editorial every day pointing out this
federal agency's continuing troubles. Never a model of efficiency, the INS was
overburdened even before Congress did its piecemeal tinkering with the
immigration laws.

The danger is that people will rely on private immigration "consultants" to fill
the void. Unscrupulous consultants, often posing as immigration attorneys, are
exploiting the misinformation about the congressional action. One scam promises
green cards within months for clients who pay $5,000 to $10,000.

California has taken the lead in trying to address the problem of unqualified
consultants. The law requires them to post $50,000 bonds with the state.
Consultants also must hang signs stating that they aren't attorneys. Last year,
state legislators beefed up the penalties that courts can impose on the
consultants to $100,000 from $10,000.

But renegade shops rarely get punished because victims are reluctant tofile
complaints. A few voluntarily have closed since Santa Clara County prosecutors
began sending notices inquiring whether the owners followed state law. More
counties should follow Santa Clara's lead.

Bogus consultants and an overloaded INS make the education efforts of non-profit
groups all the more necessary. But these community forums only are stopgaps.

Lasting solutions to the problem of so many undocumented workers in this country
need to come from Washington. Bill Clinton came up short. President Bush, who
has expressed openness to immigration reforms, should be better equipped to
convince his fellow Republicans to tackle it.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigration workshop
A coalition of non-profit legal centers will hold a free public workshop on the
new immigration laws at 10:30 a.m. Saturday, Feb. 10, at the MACSA Youth Center,
660 Sinclair Drive, San Jose.
Sponsors include the Asian Law Alliance, Catholic Charities Immigration Legal
Services, the East San Jose Community Law Center and SIREN -- Services,
Immigrant Rights and Education Network.EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                May 3, 2001 Thursday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

DIVIDED COUNCIL SLAPS INS BY A VOTE OF 3-2, IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS ARE TOLD THEY
MUST GIVE POLICE 72 HOURS' NOTICE BEFORE MAKING ARRESTS. MOST OF THE AUDIENCE
APPROVED.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 926 words


A bitterly divided Greenfield City Council has told federal immigration agents
they're not welcome in town if they don't give three days' notice.

The 3-2 vote came Tuesday night as the result of the recent arrests of 45
undocumented immigrants, some of whom allegedly sexually taunted and rubbed
against schoolgirls.

Advocates for the Salinas-based Citizenship Project and labor unions have
claimed that the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service targeted indigenous
Mexicans from Oaxaca, a poverty-stricken state in Mexico where Indians have
suffered a long history of racial discrimination.

Most of the audience gave the council majority a sustained standing ovation. But
a handful of white residents of this Salinas Valley town, which is 88 percent
Latino, and others from outside the community snarled at the resolution.

"It will leave our town less protected," said Scottie Payne. "When we declare
ourselves a wide open town, we're going to be overrun and asking for trouble."

Mayor Joseph Romo, who cast one of the two dissenting votes, said that as a
former police chief he couldn't live with the 72-hour notificationrequirement.
The other "no" vote was cast by Art Salvagno, the only non-Latino on the
council.

John Tresch of Salinas, a member of a group that opposes illegal immigration,
claimed the council was breaking the law because a section of the state penal
code states that "every law enforcement agency in California shall fully
cooperate" with the INS "regarding any person who is arrested if he or she is
suspected of being present in the United States in violation of federal
immigration laws."

Two weeks ago, representatives of the Citizenship Project and the United Farm
Workers and Teamsters unions had asked the council to declare Greenfield an "INS
Raid-Free Zone." The resolution that passed Tuesday night was a slightly muted
version drawn up by City Attorney Randy Risner.

Risner said the ordinance is legal because it is merely expressing the will of
the council and does not tell immigration agents that city police won't
cooperate with them.

Specifically, the resolution "insists" that the INS notify the chief of police
of INS operations within the city at least 72 hours before they are carried out.
The police chief would then inform each council member as soon as possible.

In addition, the resolution "insists" that Greenfield residents should be
detained only when there is reasonable suspicion that they are undocumented.

"Ethnic appearance, or more specifically 'Mexican' appearance, alone is not
sufficient to establish reasonable suspicion to stop any individual," the
resolution said.

INS officials said the resolution indicates "an unfamiliarity" with how the
agency operates.

"So much of the stuff in the resolution is stuff we already do anyway," said INS
spokeswoman Sharon Rummery. "We don't take people into custody on the basis of
their skin color or personal appearance."

And in most cases, she said, police agencies are given courtesy notices at least
three days in advance. She noted that the Monterey County Sheriff's Department
and Greenfield police knew that the INS was working the case weeks in advance.
She added, however, that the exact time agents moved in to take people into
custody was not disclosed until the last minute.

The 45 men were taken into custody and then deported in two separate operations.
On March 30, six were picked up outside a pool hall owned by Santiago and Elias
Mendoza after agents said they witnessed sexual harassment of children passing
by. And a week later, 39 more illegal immigrants were arrested at an apartment
complex as well as inside the pool hall and on a nearby street corner.

Rummery made it clear that the INS would disregard the request for 72-hour
notice if it felt it would endanger the safety of INS agents.

"To the extent that notification can be given, it will be, but there are a lot
of instances when we would not be able to do that," she said.

Monterey County Sheriff Gordon Sonne has said the INS learned of the alleged
harassment of the schoolgirls when the sheriff's deputy assigned to the D.A.R.E.
drug program at Greenfield Elementary School had dinner with an INS agent. The
agent encouraged the deputy to describe the conduct in writing.

Greenfield Police Chief Raymond Sands said the information his officers received
was second- and third-hand -- and his department was not able to verify any
harassment.

Rummery denied accusations that agents has targeted any ethnic group. She said
Wednesday the INS has now determined that seven of the 45 men deported were not
from Oaxaca.

City officials and immigrant advocates said INS agents had "kicked in doors" at
an apartment complex. But Rummery said agents were allowed to enter two
apartments by the residents.

"We just had to push in one door when someone attempted to flee by running into
a room and locking the door," she said. "We went to those apartments because we
received information that these men had been exposing themselves to little
girls."

The INS says the agency had received complaints beginning in mid-March from a
white sheriff's deputy assigned to the D.A.R.E. program in the elementary
school, as well as eight Latino parents, children and school employees. None has
spoken publicly.

Meanwhile, immigrant advocates and Greenfield business people say many ofthe men
deported have returned.

"They're back already," said Ramon Martinez, who owns a taqueria next to the
pool hall. "I've seen them hanging out."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Greenfield

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: KAREN BORCHERS - MERCURY NEWS
Ramon Martinez, who owns a restaurant next to the pool hall where men were
picked up in early April, says some of them already are back. "I've seen them
hanging out," he said.
PHOTO: KAREN BORCHERS - MERCURY NEWS
The Mendoza game center was one of the arrest locations. Forty-five men were
arrested and deported in two separate operations in or near the pool hall and at
an apartment house. Agents said they witnessed sexual harassment of children
passing by the pool hall.
PHOTO: KAREN BORCHERS - MERCURY NEWS
Santiago Mendoza is co-owner of the pool hall and other businesses in
Greenfield, which is bitterly split over INS raids.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 8, 2001 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

COURT HALTS INS PLAN WOMAN GETS REPRIEVE: AGENCY SAYS ITS THREAT TO SEDATE,
DEPORT HER WAS MISUNDERSTANDING

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 414 words


Hours before the INS planned to send an illegal immigrant back to China, the 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals granted an emergency stay Monday afternoon to
block the deportation, according to her attorney.

Bao Hua Dong's case is attracting attention because an Immigration and
Naturalization Service deportation agent threatened to sedate her and then place
her on board a plane unless she cooperated.

A previous attempt at deporting her failed when Dong so forcefully and loudly
resisted at San Francisco International Airport that United Airlines refused to
let her on a scheduled flight to China. Dong, a 26-year-old Fukien native,
arrived illegally in December 1998.

"I've been in immigration law a long time, and this is the first time I've seen
a case like this," said Menlo Park attorney Jon Wu, who sought the emergency
stay.

Wu said he first tried to obtain a stay from the Board of Immigration Appeals in
Virginia, but the board denied the request at 12:30 p.m. He then turned to the
9th Circuit, which granted the emergency stay about an hour later.

Wu said his next step will be to ask the 9th Circuit to order Dong released into
the custody of her sister, who lives in New York. Her father also lives there.
Dong is receiving support from the Chinese-American community, according to Wu.

"People are outraged the INS would sedate someone to deport them," Wu said. He
added that the INS had been cooperating with him during the last several days.
"They had to do their job," he said.

INS officials have said the threat to forcibly drug Dong was a misunderstanding.
They said the agency would first obtain a judge's order before having a doctor
sedate her. It was unclear Monday if the INS had received such a judge's order
or had planned to sedate her before they placed her on a flight.

Wu said when Dong called him at 3:15 p.m., she did not sound like she was
sedated. Only one flight was scheduled Monday afternoon to leave San Francisco
for China, a 4:40 p.m. flight bound for Shanghai.

Linda Harter, a federal public defender who helped Dong before Wu was retained,
said she received several calls Monday morning from inmates at Yuba County jail
informing her that Dong had been taken away. Dong later called Harter from San
Francisco, asking for her help.

"She's with us and she's going today," INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said
Monday morning. But after the emergency stay was granted, Rummery declined to
comment on the Dong case.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 10, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS SEEKS TO EXTEND DEADLINE FOR VISAS 200,000 MIGRANTS COULD STILL APPLY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is recommending that illegal
immigrants who missed last month's deadline to apply for visas get an additional
six to 12 months to do so, the agency's acting commissionersaid Wednesday.

Kevin Rooney told a House Appropriations subcommittee that the INS believes that
about 200,000 people who were eligible for the visas did not apply under the law
that expired April 30.

Rooney said he favors the extension because his agency was slow to come up with
regulations to govern the process.

President Bush last week wrote congressional leaders urging them to give illegal
immigrants more time to apply.

Bush has not said how much more time he is seeking.

Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., said the INS recommendation bodes well for the
possibility of an extension.

"Now you have the president saying it. You have INS saying it. You have
Republican members of Congress saying it. It could be good," he said.

The Legal Immigration and Family Equity Act allowed an estimated 640,000 illegal
immigrants to apply for visas without first returning to their home countries
and applying from there.

Without amnesty, illegal immigrants found to have violated U.S. immigration laws
are barred for long periods from re-entering the United States.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 9, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EFFECTS OF IMMIGRATION LAWS ON RIGHTS EXAMINED

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Children held for years in immigration detention centers. Asylum seekers
shackled at airports or tossed in county jails with felons. Immigrants deported
for incidents that occurred years ago. Activists say such collisions between
civil rights and immigration enforcement occur daily under tougher U.S.
immigration laws.

The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights will scrutinize those laws and their effect
on immigrants' civil rights in an effort the commission calls "Crossing
Borders," chairwoman Mary Frances Berry said Friday at a meeting of the panel.

Berry said the commission will visit detention centers, review immigration
policies, monitor enforcement and hold hearings for testimony from immigration
officials.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 29, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT DETENTION RULING HAILED

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 711 words


The U.S. Supreme Court decision Thursday striking down indefinite detention of
immigrants after they've served time for their crimes was hailed by immigrant
rights advocates in the Bay Area as an important victory that could lead to
critical policy changes within the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"This is a huge victory for immigrants," said Jayashri Srikantiah, an attorney
with the Immigrant Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union in
Oakland. "It signals to the INS that immigrants are entitled to the full
protection of the law and Constitution."

The court ruled 5-4 that immigrants who have committed crimes in the United
States cannot be confined in this country indefinitely just because no other
country will take them -- or their country no longer exists. The ruling possibly
could affect 200 detainees in California and 2,700 around the country.

The court decided in favor of Kestutis Zadvydas, who was born in a displaced
persons camp in Europe in 1948 and is now a man without a country, and Kim Ho
Ma, who was born in Cambodia in 1977 and came to the United States when he was
2.

Both men got into serious legal trouble and served their sentences -- Zadvydas
on drug charges in Virginia, Ma on a gang-related manslaughter charge in
Washington -- then remained in jail because their native lands could not or
would not take them back.

The court ruled that it is possible that both could be deported somewhere in the
future, and immigration officials have the right to keep them under supervision
in the meantime. But what the government cannot do is keep them locked up
indefinitely after they have served their sentences for want of a place to
deport them, Justice Stephen G. Breyer ruled for the majority. He was joined by
Justices John Paul Stevens, Sandra Day O'Connor, David H. Souter and Ruth Bader
Ginsburg

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy wrote a dissent, asserting that the majority had
overstepped the court's powers at the expense of Congress and the executive
branch and paid too little heed to the dangers such immigrants might pose to the
community. He was joined in part by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and
Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas.

Across the country, there are 2,700 people in INS detention centers who may be
affected by the court ruling. Immigrant advocates have estimated that more than
200 detainees in California have similar cases pending in courts in Los Angeles,
San Diego and Sacramento.

It's not immediately clear how the ruling will be interpreted by the INS and how
it will affect the cases of immigrants who are being detained in various INS
lockups across the country.

"We're gratified that the justices have ruled on this matter. This will help us
set a course. We're studying the decision in detail and once we've reviewed it,
we'll determine how to proceed," said Karen Kraushaar, aspokeswoman for the INS
in Washington, D.C.

"I hope the INS does the right thing and recognize that in each case they have
to look at whether a person can be deported or released on conditions of
supervision. These guys can't be locked up forever," said Jennifer Wellman, the
court-appointed attorney from Seattle who represented Ma.

Lawyers and advocates have long criticized changes enacted by Congress in its
1996 immigration reform laws, which effectively allowed the INS to detain
immigrants such as Ma and Zadvydas for an indefinite period. The new laws also
made many misdemeanor convictions, such as shoplifting, grounds for eventual
deportation.

Scores of immigrants convicted of crimes have been deported after doing their
sentences. Thursday's ruling applies to those held indefinitely after their
sentences because the U.S. has no deportation agreements with their native lands
-- or no diplomatic relations at all. These detainees, called "lifers" in INS
slang, hailed from nations including Iran, Cuba, Vietnam, Cambodia and Somalia.

"One of the foundations of our society is people's right to judicial review,"
said Sister Marilyn Lacey, director of the Immigration, Refugee and Employee
Services for San Jose's Catholic Charities. "Once somebody has served their
sentence, to put them into a limbo category is a strange twist of legislation."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: U.S. SUPREME COURT
The New York Times contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 5, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THAI BOY WITH AIDS SHOULD STAY IN U.S. FOR CARE, JUDGE SAYS

BYLINE: ROBERT JABLON, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A federal judge on Monday refused to order the return of a Thai boy with AIDS
who was used as a decoy in an immigrant smuggling scheme.

The judge in the international custody battle said he was concerned that
3-year-old Phanupong Khaisri would not receive proper medical care in Thailand.

"I'd be giving this kid a death sentence if I sent him back, and I'm just not
going to do that," said U.S. District Judge Dickran Tevrizian.

The youngster should remain in the United States until he is 18 and can make his
own decision about returning, he said during a status conference on the case.

Grandparents' request

Tevrizian refused to dissolve a preliminary injunction he issued last year that
indefinitely barred the boy's return. The request was made by the youngster's
paternal grandparents, who say they adopted him under Thai law in March.

Tevrizian said he was concerned about the boy's safety if he is sent to live
with them because the grandmother was convicted of heroin trafficking and spent
12 years in prison before the Thai government released and pardoned her.

Immigration officials have denied requests for the boy's political asylum, but
Tevrizian said he felt the boy did not receive a fair hearing because the case
did not go before an immigration judge.

"I don't like it that this child is being used as a tennis ball between two
countries," he added.

Peter Schey, an attorney for Los Angeles-area Thai activists, said he intended
to seek a review of the asylum refusal and also will apply for a new type of
visa created last year for victims of immigrant trafficking.

Chutima Vucharatavintara, the boy's court-appointed guardian, wept and hugged
Schey after the hearing.

An emotional response

"I feel I'm alive again," she said in a choked voice. "I feel like I want to
thank you for this country. They're willing to give justice for everybody in the
world."

The boy's grandparents were in court for the hearing. They do not speak English,
and Thai consular officials declined to translate a reporter's questions for
them.

The boy arrived at Los Angeles International Airport in April 2000. Officials
determined he was being used as a prop by a man trying to smuggle a woman into
the country for prostitution. The boy was posing as the couple's son.

His own mother, a heroin-addicted prostitute who gave him HIV, had rented him
out to the smugglers, authorities said. She has given up custody. His
HIV-infected father committed suicide.

Schey said the boy was malnourished and had pneumonia, chicken pox and a severe
ear infection when he arrived. He screamed from nightmares and was anti-social.
His HIV infection quickly became full-blown AIDS, the lawyer added.

Now the boy is "thriving" and is learning to read, speak and write English,
Schey said.

An attorney for the grandparents said the ruling would be appealed.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no credit given]
Officials determined 3-year-old Phanupong Khaisri was being used by a smuggler

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 7, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EX-IMMIGRATION INSPECTOR RECEIVES 12 YEARS IN PRISON

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 76 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A former U.S. immigration inspector who took bribes and helped drug and
immigrant smugglers was sentenced Friday to 12 1/2 years in prison.

Richard Lawrence Pineda, 42, was convicted of smuggling and racketeering in
April.

Prosecutors said that during Pineda's 12 years working at the San Ysidro Port of
Entry, he accepted at least $350,000 to allow cars carrying 3,500 pounds of
marijuana and 23 illegal immigrants to enter the United States.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 30, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAN CHARGED IN FATAL HUMAN-SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 114 words

DATELINE: ARIZONA


One of 12 survivors of a border crossing that ended in the deaths of 14 illegal
immigrants who wandered five days in the scorching Arizona desert was charged
with smuggling the group from Mexico.

Court documents say the survivor was one of three men who helped the immigrants
cross the border.

The survivor, Jesus Lopez-Ramos, 20, and one of the other men took $90 from the
group three days into the trek and promised to return with water, the documents
allege. Lopez-Ramos didn't return and was found within five miles of Interstate
8, the group's destination. Another man was found dead nearby, but authorities
didn't immediately say whether he was the second guide.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 3, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PLAN TO LET ILLEGAL WORKERS STAY LABOR SHORTAGES: PROPOSAL IN CONGRESS WOULD
KEEP FOREIGN FARM EMPLOYEES IN U.S. WITH VISAS

BYLINE: BART JANSEN, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 590 words


It's no secret the agriculture industry is dependent on illegal foreign workers.
And California, the largest farm state with a $27 billion agricultural economy
and 235,000 workers, is no exception.

But for years lawmakers have been unable to agree on a way to curb the flow of
illegal workers without harming the farmers who need them.

Now, a compromise plan has emerged in Congress that would allow as many as 1
million illegal farm employees to stay in the country permanently and add
perhaps 1 million more foreigners temporarily through an expanded visa program.

"The current system is broken and this compromise takes the first steps to fix
it," said Anthony Bedell, a lobbyist for the American Nursery and Landscape
Association.

It's unclear whether a lame-duck Congress that returns next week will want to
tackle such a difficult issue, though those who worked on the plan are hopeful.

"We remain cautiously optimistic," said Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., and one of the
lead negotiators. A spokesman for another lead negotiator, Sen. Gordon Smith,
R-Ore., said, "The senator is confident this will happen this session."

Texas Rep. Lamar Smith, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's immigration
panel, is fiercely critical of efforts to let illegal immigrants stay in the
country.

"Providing green cards to people who are already here amounts to an amnesty and
the chairman absolutely opposes amnesty," said John Lampmann, Lamar Smith's
chief of staff.

Smith supports expanding the visa program, but the Clinton administration has
threatened to veto a bill that does only that. Advocates hope a compromise
involving both visas and green cards will win White House approval.

Earlier this year, Congress nearly doubled the number of H-1B visas for foreign
high-tech workers -- to 195,000 per year -- after high-tech companies complained
about acute labor shortages. Critics say it is unfair for Congress to help those
companies while ignoring the plight of farmers.

More than half the country's 2 million farmworkers acknowledged in 1998 that
they were here illegally, according to a Congressional Research Service survey
released in March, leading industry experts to conclude the actual figure is
much higher.

Farmers say they walk a fine line between bankruptcy and committing a crime
because of their reliance on illegal labor, said Kerry Whitson, a plum farmer
and president of the Tulare County Farm Bureau. Wages in the depressed farm
economy fail to attract domestic workers, he said.

"You try to determine who is legal and who is not," he said. "It becomes so
fraught with fraudulent documentation, that becomes a nightmare in itself."

The H-2A visa program allows foreigners to work on farms up to 10 months a year
at a federally calculated wage rate in housing that farmers must provide.

The proposal also would:

* Freeze the wages visa holders earn for three years. Farmers complain the
average wages now required are too high because the formula used to calculate
them includes non-agricultural jobs.

* Allow farmers to offer workers housing vouchers rather than provide housing.
The vouchers would be worth one-fourth of a federal housing subsidy, with the
expectation workers will share apartments.

* Let illegal workers who can show they worked at least 100 days in agriculture
in the past 18 months pursue a green card. They would be issued a green card if
they work at least 360 days in agriculture in the next six years, with 275 days
required in the first three years.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: GARY KAZANJIAN -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Kerry Whitson, right, talks to his workers at his orchard in Exeter. A new
proposal in Congress would allow 1 million illegal farm employees to stay in the
United States. A 1998 survey showed that half of the country's 2 million
farmworkers acknowledged they were here illegally.
PHOTO: In top photo, a farmworker trims a plum tree in Whitson's orchard. It is
unknown if the man is in the country legally.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 24, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GIVE 'GUEST WORKERS' A LEGAL PLACE IN U.S. ECONOMY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 478 words


MILLIONS of Mexican immigrants work illegally in the United States. They labor
without worker protections or health insurance. They are poorly paid and
frequently abused.

Still, they stream into America, crossing the dangerous and heavily patrolled
Mexico-U.S. border in search of better circumstances.

Against this backdrop, Sen. Phil Gramm, a powerful Republican from Texas, is
pushing a plan that would allow millions of Mexicans to be employed legally as
"guest workers" in the United States. The goal: to slow illegal immigration and
offer workers rights under U.S. laws.

It's a proposal worth developing -- and President Bush should play a lead role
with the backing of a bipartisan congress. Mexican President Vicente Fox,
seeking improved relations, already applauds the idea.

Bush will meet in Mexico with Fox on Feb. 16. The meeting is a first step in
what Bush hopes will be a closer relationship with Mexico.

Gramm says he can have a program in place within a year. To do that, he'll have
to quickly overcome likely opposition from organized labor and other opponents
of guest-worker programs. Although the AFL-CIO has backed reforms to encourage
some level of legal immigration and to protect undocumented immigrants from
exploitation, some union leaders think the guest worker program would undermine
the prospects for union members.

Gramm envisions a program that would give legal work permits, first to
undocumented Mexican workers already in the United States and eventually to
workers in Mexico.

Participants would be entitled to minimum-wage salaries and full protection
under U.S. labor laws. The program could include worker training paid for by
U.S. companies and some level of health insurance.

It is important that such a program not be seen as a shortcut to citizenship.
Permits should be good for a designated time -- one year, perhaps -- and the
number of guest workers allowed in should be tied to the U.S. unemployment rate.

Proponents point out that workers with the special permits could eventually
return home after a stint working in the United States, taking helpful skills to
their local economy.

In a broader sense, the guest worker program represents a more humane and open
way of employing the estimated 7 million immigrants in this country who work in
all types of jobs ranging from agriculture to construction.

Bush has pledged to make relations with Mexico a priority, but he has been
cautious about increasing immigration. Fox has been eager to ease border
regulations at a time of increasingly strong economic, demographic, social and
political ties with the United States.

In pursuing the guest worker program, Bush would demonstrate a new, enlightened
shift in America's complex relations with Mexico while underscoring the point
that immigrant workers are vitally important to our economy.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 28, 2001 Sunday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

OAKLAND RALLY DEMANDS AMNESTY GROUPS SEEKING RIGHTS FOR THE UNDOCUMENTED

BYLINE: SANDRA GONZALES, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 610 words


With a rallying cry for immigrant rights, more than 1,000 supporters from
throughout the state cut a wide swath through Oakland streets Saturday to
spotlight a renewed call for amnesty for the undocumented.

Banners waved and traffic stopped as an estimated 1,200 activists marched along
several blocks in Oakland, demanding justice for immigrant workers.

At Carmen Flores Park on Fruitvale Avenue where the crowd eventually gathered,
immigrant workers, labor leaders and politicians touched on the theme that
brought this community of immigrant rights groups together: amnesty.

Besides general amnesty for all undocumented immigrants, they called for a
repeal of sanctions on employers who hire illegal workers and an end to guest
worker and contract-labor programs. They demanded that undocumented workers be
given better protection to organize and defended the right to family
reunification and more opportunities for legal immigration.

"America is a nation of immigrants and we cannot be the economic power we are
without the hard work of immigrants, and I'm here to tell you the exploitation
must end," said Sen. Barbara Boxer. "We have a fight on our hands in Washington,
D.C. First of all, the wrong man was voted into office. He doesn't understand,
President Bush, what a real decent wage is. In Texas, it is $3.35 an hour."

Congresswoman Barbara Lee, D-Oakland, also stirred the crowd. "My ancestors were
brought here . . . illegally in chains as immigrants. They built this country as
slaves. But you know what? Slavery has ended," Lee said.

Attorney General Bill Lockyer announced a newly created unit in his office that
focuses on immigrant rights. The office addresses fraudulent immigration
consultant claims, and discrimination and employment concerns from immigrants.

As Boxer and others spoke, the crowd -- many carrying signs calling for "Amnesty
Now" and waving banners from their home countries -- often broke into the chant
of "Si Se Puede" (Yes, we can) and applauded.

Long process

One of those was Jose Villa, 31, of San Leandro. He left Mexico 14 years ago,
and is still in the process of gaining citizenship. His stay in the UnitedStates
has been strained, marked by bouts of uncertainty. "When you're illegal, you're
insecure because you don't know what's going to happen next," said Villa, who
does accounting work.

"It's important to send a message to the politicians that they see that people
here contribute to the economy of this country," he said. "We want to get good
jobs and help this country. We're not here to abuse the system."

Last year, immigrant-rights groups were unable to persuade Congress to legalize
the status of the undocumented who have resided in the United States since 1986,
when the last general amnesty legislation was passed. While legislation passed
by Congress and signed by President Clinton in December brought some significant
changes for immigrants, many say it was too little. The December legislation
allowed certain illegal immigrants to apply for permanent residency through
April 30, by removing a requirement that they leave the country for at least
three years before returning to begin the process.

National movement

Saturday's gathering was part of a renewed movement across the country by
immigrant-rights groups seeking new amnesty and immigration reform. An estimated
7 million illegal immigrants are believed to reside in the United States.

"We in California have a particular role to play because 25 percent of all the
immigrants that come to the United States settle here," said Lillian Galledo, a
spokeswoman for Filipinos for Affirmative Action.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: Page 3B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 4, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO TO SEEK AMNESTY FROM U.S. VICENTE FOX PLANS TO DISCUSS WITH BUSH WAYS TO
IMPROVE LIVES OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: TRACI CARL, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


President Vicente Fox said Saturday he plans to press President Bush to grant
amnesty to Mexicans living and working illegally in the United States, the
latest sign of a growing debate on immigration between the two countries.

Bush and Fox are scheduled to meet Feb. 16 in Mexico during what will be Bush's
first foreign visit since taking office in January. During his weekly radio
address Saturday, Fox said he would ask Bush to work toward better treatment of
Mexican immigrants in the United States.

If they were granted amnesty by the U.S. government, Mexicans could receive the
education and health benefits they deserve, Fox said.

For those who still want to leave Mexico, Fox said he would talk to Bush about
finding a "documented way, so they can work, return and see their family, then
go back again."

Since he took office Dec. 1, ending more than 70 years of rule by the
Institutional Revolutionary Party, Fox has come up with several proposals to
ease the plight of Mexicans fleeing to the United States.

U.S. leaders have been lukewarm to his idea of expanding the North American Free
Trade Agreement into a common market that would eventually allow the free
movement of workers -- an idea that would have to take place after Mexican wages
became more competitive, Fox has said.

Still, the Bush administration and several members of Congress appear willing to
take part in a debate on improving the lives of illegal Mexican immigrants.

Texas Republican Sen. Phil Gramm, often a foe of legislation designed to ease
U.S. immigration laws, has said he will push to create a guest worker program
for illegal laborers from Mexico.

And Secretary of State Colin Powell has expressed concern about the large number
of undocumented Mexican immigrants who die from exposure and other causes while
trying to enter the United States.

Fox said other topics he wanted to discuss with Bush include the U.S. economic
slowdown and the fight against drug smuggling.

Mexico sends more than 80 percent of its exports to the United States and has
enjoyed several years of economic growth fueled in part by the U.S. economy's
success.

However, Fox has tried to protect his country's economy from being hit hard by
U.S. economic troubles.

During his recent trip to Davos, Switzerland, for the World Economic Forum and
during meetings in Germany with leaders there, he sought to boost Mexico's newly
signed trade agreement with the European Union.

"It would be bad to sit here, crying and lamenting that the U.S. economy isn't
going to grow," he said. "That's for them over there. We are going to fight on
other fronts."

He also repeated pleas for all Mexicans to help fight organized crime and drug
smugglers.

"We are not going to accept it," he said. "Throw them out of our community."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Visit Web sites for the State Department (www.state.gov: www: regions:
wha: index.html and the Mexican president (www.presidencia.gob.mx: ?NLang).

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 12, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SMALL TOWN LOSES HALF ITS MEN, WHO GO TO U.S. FOR WORK WITH EACH CROP FAILURE,
VILLAGERS HEAD NORTH

BYLINE: MORRIS THOMPSON, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: SAN MIGUEL ACUEXCOMAC, Mexico


Once again, last year's corn crop grew to just 2 feet around these parts. So
once again, more people left this dusty farming village of 1,200 to live and
work illegally in the United States.

During the past 20 years, at least half the men have gone, mostly to Los
Angeles. Money they send home has delivered electricity, schools, a clinic and
running water. But the migration has sucked away the talent of this village
about 100 miles southeast of Mexico City, split many of its families and left it
with an aged and shriveled population.

When President Bush meets Mexican President Vicente Fox at Fox's ranch on
Friday, Fox will push hard to improve life for migrants and their families by
way of an expanded guest-worker program. It would allow Mexicans to earn legal
wages in the United States, save costly smugglers' fees and be freed from the
furtive existence of illegal immigrants.

The U.S. government, Fox will argue, could save much of the nearly $1 billion a
year it spends on border control. Thousands of U.S. employers could stop lying
about who works for them and start paying employment taxes and benefits.

From 2.7 million to 8 million Mexicans are estimated to be working illegally in
the United States, and up to 400,000 a year are believed to stay.

Agricultural workers now can enter the United States legally for seasonal work
if a U.S. employer certifies that it can't find Americans to do the job,
Americans won't be displaced and the immigrant workers will get housing and
prevailing wages.

Last year, the United States issued about 58,000 visas under such arrangements.
About half of the 1.6 million U.S. agricultural workers are undocumented aliens,
mostly from Mexico, according to U.S. government figures. Another visa program,
for highly educated workers, doesn't apply to most Mexicans.

Undocumented Mexican workers used to return home more regularly than they do
now, but stepped-up U.S. border control efforts are deterring them, immigration
experts said. In addition, smugglers' fees have risen, and the crossings have
moved to more remote and dangerous sections of desert.

"People go there for the money, to get what they need for their children," said
San Miguel Mayor Bonifacio Gomez Aguilar. "Almost everyone here has someone
there. Some send 500 pesos or 1,000 pesos a month," roughly $50 to $100. "Some
send practically nothing."

Their remittances are essential in a community where the corn on small family
plots fails for lack of rain three years out of four.

Migrant contributions built a medical clinic here in 1985, the elementary school
in 1991, the junior high in 1995, a high school last year. They paid to run
electricity into the town in 1989 and for a water system in 1996. Twenty years
ago, said Filemon Hierro, 42, president of the auxiliary board, the village's
formal self-help group, most houses here were thatched palm. Now they are
concrete or brick.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story: page 1A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Map;
PHOTO: LUIS J. JIMENEZ -- KNIGHT RIDDER PHOTOGRAPHS
Lucero Pacheco, 12, top, watches as her uncle Nicolas Diaz rides past her house.
With each crop failure in San Miguel Acuexcomac, Mexico, more of its male
residents leave to find work in the United States.
PHOTO: LUIS J. JIMENEZ -- KNIGHT RIDDER PHOTOGRAPHS
Lucila Osorio, 76, above, weaves a sleeping mat to sell so she has money to buy
food.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 12, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ONE-YEAR VISAS PROPOSED FOR MEXICANS IN U.S. AN IDEA TO GIVE ONE-YEAR VISAS TO
UNDOCUMENTED MEXICANS IS ALREADY GAINING OPPOSITION. SOME FEAR THAT IT WOULD
OPEN THE DOOR FOR EXPLOITATION OF WORKERS. MEXICO'S FOX, BUSH TO DISCUSS
WORKERS' STAYS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1561 words


Every year for two decades, Jose Ponce Ozuna has come to San Jose from Mexico
with a clear purpose: Work for several months and return home to Mazatlan with
enough cash to support his wife, five children and his parents.

Like millions of Mexicans, he enters the United States illegally to pick crops,
work on tour boats and wash dishes, usually for 10 months at a time in the Bay
Area and Chicago before going home for two months.

Now, Ponce and other undocumented migrant workers like him see a glimmer of hope
that their days of working on the margins of U.S. immigration policy may be
numbered. They are at the heart of an idea to provide one-year visas to
undocumented Mexican nationals in the United States.

What is perhaps most surprising about the plan is who is pitching it: Sen. Phil
Gramm, a powerful, conservative Texas Republican who has long decried illegal
immigration.

Aimed at easing the nation's low-paying agriculture and service industry labor
shortage, Gramm's idea hasn't yet been introduced as a bill and specific details
are unknown. But in the month since he floated the idea, it already has
generated lots of talk among undocumented immigrants, their advocates and their
employers.

The guest-worker proposal also will be a topic of conversation Friday when
President Bush visits Mexican President Vicente Fox, who is pushing for a visa
program to help Mexicans who go north to work.

For the majority of undocumented immigrants living in the United States --
estimated at 2.7 million to 8 million -- being granted legal status is an
answered prayer.

"A lot of us would benefit from this proposal; most of us don't want to stay
here permanently," said Ponce, speaking for himself and three friends who seek
day-labor work each morning along Alum Rock Avenue in San Jose. Best of all, he
said, he and his fellow migrants would lose the stigma of being illegal and
could apply for any job they wanted.

But as good as it may sound to Ponce, the plan is meeting resistance from an
unusual alliance of challengers: farmworker advocates and their longtime rivals,
the agriculture growers.

Farmworker advocates say Gramm's plan is unacceptable because the temporary work
could amount to indentured servitude.

The 12-month visas, they say, wouldn't lead to permanent residency or
citizenship, and the plan would apparently exclude non-Mexicans. Visas would be
offered only to Mexicans and not to the Central American and Caribbean natives
who also work in agriculture, particularly in the Southeastern United States.

Growers contend the visas won't erase the worker shortage, especially in
crop-rich California.

'Cheap labor'

Joining the opposition are immigration-reform groups in California, which have
denounced the idea as being little more than amnesty -- something Gramm has
rejected. They call it "Grammnesty."

Carol Joyal, chairwoman of the Immigration Reform Network of Silicon Valley,
said the Gramm plan is a typical case of "big business wanting cheap labor."

And if the workers are imported, Joyal said, they'll want to stay, with or
without a visa, and later they'll want to bring family members.

"There's nothing particularly wrong with those people," Joyal said. The problem,
she argues, is that liberalizing immigration laws will increase the population
and deteriorate the U.S. environment.

"We think generally it would be best to help those people in their own country."

Gramm agrees, but he's looking for a quicker solution.

He envisions a visa that first would be offered to undocumented workers already
in the United States; at the end of the year, each worker would be told to
return to Mexico before re-applying. Eventually, the visa would be awarded in
Mexico for migrants crossing the border in search of work.

Gramm sees his plan as a win-win for thousands of employers who have come to
rely on cheap labor from undocumented workers who are hired by presenting
fraudulent paperwork.

"What we're trying to do is steer a different road than has been taken before,"
said Gramm's press secretary, Larry Neal. "We're not in the end going to suggest
a bracero program, and we're not in the end going to suggest an amnesty
program."

But farmworker advocates say the plan reminds them of the bracero program, which
allowed 5 million Mexicans to fill wartime labor shortages in agriculture,
railroads and factories from 1942 until its demise in 1964 amid abuses and
exploitation by employers.

Some of the laborers still haven't been fully paid for their work.

"The truth is, it would be worse than the bracero program," said Bruce
Goldstein, co-director of the Farmworker Justice Fund Inc. in Washington, D.C.

When migrant workers are visa holders committed to one employer, Goldstein said,
they also are prey for unscrupulous growers who try to pay less than minimum
wage. "The bottom line is: the guest workers are given a status that really
prevents them from enforcing their rights," Goldstein said.

Some independent studies have shown that a guest-worker program could be ideal
for the many Mexicans who have no intention of settling in the United States.

A 1997 study by the Public Policy Institute of California in San Francisco found
that more than half of immigrants -- undocumented and documented -- who came
from western Mexico returned home within two years, and fewer than a third
stayed as long as 10 years.

"It seems people come here to work, to get some money to go back, and either
invest the money or build their house," said the study's author, Belinda Reyes.

Short stays have helped Ponce, for example, who said he has no reason to stay
here forever. He pays $280 a month to rent a room in San Jose, and return home
to Sinaloa state in time for Christmas, to share his earnings -- about $6,000 --
with his family.

He owns the house they live in, and his next goal is to buy the property it sits
on.

Gramm believes that most workers will voluntarily return to Mexico once their
permits expire, though many farmworker advocates and growers said it's more
likely that the workers will find jobs as they always have -- with bogus Social
Security numbers.

So far, Gramm, a staunch law-and-order advocate, has not announced specifically
how the program would be enforced or how much it would cost.

Gramm caught many Central Valley growers by surprise, and also some of his own
colleagues, when he told Fox about his idea during a visit to Mexico with other
Republican senators in January.

Fox has said he is interested in the idea, but, like the farmworker advocates,
wants to be assured that employee protection is paramount in any legislation.
Gramm later said in a TV interview that his proposal would "give dignity to
Mexican nationals" and "give them the full protection of the law," including
competitive wages.

Years of debate

Guest-worker proposals have been debated in and out of Congress over the past 35
years. Recently, the discussion has dealt with the H-2A program, which brings in
about 40,000 farmworkers a year, half of them from Mexico.

Somewhat similar to the high-tech H-1B visa, yet on the opposite end of the wage
spectrum, the H-2A has come under fire from labor activists who claim abuse is
becoming widespread.

Unlike the six-year H-1B visa, most H-2A workers don't get a chance to apply for
a green card. The H-1B program so far has brought more than 425,000 skilled
workers to the United States -- most from India, and 195,000 more visas will be
handed out during each of the next three years.

The timing of Gramm's idea has angered some of his own supporters.

He raised the issue just weeks after killing landmark bipartisan legislation
negotiated by growers, unions, immigrant advocates and lawmakers. The
legislation aimed to alleviate the labor shortage with an omnibus proposal that
not only included visas for farmworkers, but also a provision to allow those
farmworkers to later apply for green cards.

Negotiated pact dies

Gramm eliminated the measure in mid-December, saying it had proposed an amnesty,
which the senator has "consistently opposed," said Neal, his spokesman.

Manuel Cunha was among those who were deeply disappointed. Cunha, president of
the Nisei Farmer's League, a Fresno organization that represents 1,000 growers,
said the negotiated agreement was the first time in about 40 years that the
agriculture industry and labor unions agreed on a plan to solve their common
problems.

"That had never occurred," Cunha said. "Farmers have always felt that
Republicans were their friends."

But Cunha has an unlikely friend in someone who often is a foe: United Farm
Workers of America President Arturo Rodriguez, who says he is "dead set" against
the Gramm plan.

"He is going to create a real vicious attack by the Latino community, by the
labor community," Rodriguez said. "It's a very sensitive and critical issue."

Some speculate that Gramm came up with his proposal because of the criticism he
received on killing the earlier agreement without having his own plan to offer.

"What we're surprised about is that it doesn't seem to satisfy anyone," said
Lisa Navarrette of the National Council of La Raza.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
MEXICO'S LEGAL TEMPORARY WORKERS
[Chart not in database]
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story: page 1A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Chart;
PHOTO: Bush
PHOTO: Fox

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                April 11, 2001 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

LAKIREDDY BROTHERS FACE MORE CHARGES TWO INDICTED ON MORE COUNTS IN ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION SCHEME INDICTMENT ADDS SEX CRIMES, WITNESS-TAMPERING CHARGES AND
EXPANDED COUNTS OF VISA FRAUD AND IMPORTING ILLEGAL WORKERS.

BYLINE: SANDRA GONZALES, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 837 words


In a new turn in a case that stunned the Bay Area, two brothers charged in an
illegal immigration smuggling scheme were indicted Tuesday on new counts that
allege a broader scope of sexual exploitation with additional victims.

Vijay Kumar Lakireddy, 31, and Prasad Lakireddy, 43, both free on bond, had been
scheduled to appear in U.S. District Court in Oakland for a status hearing on
the case when Assistant U.S. Attorney John Kennedy announced the superseding
21-count indictment.

Their father, multimillionaire Berkeley landlord Lakireddy Bali Reddy, pleaded
guilty last month to charges that he brought young girls from India for sex and
cheap labor. But his sons refused to enter the plea agreement, and chose to
fight the case at trial.

Tuesday's turn of events, however, heightens the severity of the case against
Reddy's sons, and may prove more daunting for their defense.

The new indictment casts a wider net of blame, adding sex crimes to their
individual cases as well as new charges of witness tampering and expanded counts
of visa fraud and importing illegal immigrants.

Prasad Lakireddy is named in nine of the counts, his brother Vijay in 15. The
counts carry a maximum penalty of five to 15 years, plus a potential $250,000
fine for each count.

The new indictment details 48 criminal acts in a wide-ranging conspiracy count
charging the pair with bringing illegal immigrants into the United States and
importing them for immoral purposes. It also lists victims with whom the
brothers allegedly had sex against their will over a period from 1992 to 1999.

Three of the victims are new. The indictment alleges Vijay Lakireddy forced six
women to have sex with him. Prasad Lakireddy also was indicted on charges he
tampered with witnesses by attempting to prevent at least one victim and one
witness from cooperating with authorities.

Both pleaded not guilty Tuesday to the new indictment at their arraignment.

Though pleased that the charges shed new light on the case, the Alliance of
South Asians Taking Action -- which has been following the case -- voiced regret
that the charges centered on fraudulent immigration rather than sexual assault
or labor violations.

ACLU is pleased

The American Civil Liberties Union applauded the new indictment. "It goes
further in exposing the Reddy family conspiracy, and it shows the government has
been investigating the case," said Jayashri Srikantiah, staff counsel for the
ACLU's Immigrants' Rights Project.

The indictment lays bare a tawdry illegal immigration scheme in which the pair
were allegedly involved in recruiting and smuggling Indian women and girls into
the United States for sex.

At the direction of Reddy and others, employees would allegedly procure poor
young Indian girls to have sex with Prasad and Vijay Lakireddy, their father and
others. Initially put to work in menial jobs at the Reddy estate in their
southern Indian Village of Velvadam, the girls allegedly were later forced to
have sex with the brothers and others when they visited India, the indictment
states.

The indictment goes on to say the brothers and their co-conspirators arranged to
have the girls brought to the United States on fraudulent visa petitions. Once
the girls arrived, the indictment states, the brothers, along with Reddy and
others, forced the girls to have sexual relations by controlling their jobs,
meals and money through scolding, threatening, beating, and even raping them.

Attorneys for the pair minced no words in denouncing the new charges.

"They're scurrilous, exaggerated, inappropriate and unfair, and a bit more than
overcharged," said Attorney Paul Wolf. His client, Prasad Lakireddy, is alleged
to have had sex with two girls against their will.

Wolf contended that the new indictment was based on contradictory statements by
some of the witnesses including the victims, and hinted that they might have
been induced to change their statements after learning of the restitution the
other victims were to receive.

Reddy has agreed to pay a restitution fee of $2 million to four girls with whom
he admitted having sex.

Vijay Lakireddy's attorney, George Cotsirilos, said he found the slew of charges
disturbing and inaccurate. "They're not true," he said, also expressing concern
about the ability to seat a fair and impartial jury because of the extensive
publicity the case has received.

Moving forward

Attorney Meera Trehan, whose firm has filed a class action civil suit on behalf
of the victims, said that while the victims would like to put the whole matter
behind them, they support the U.S. attorney's actions.

"What is disappointing and what we're surprised at is the defendants' failure to
accept responsibility for their actions in light of considerable evidence and in
light of their co-conspirators' guilty pleas," said Trehan.

Reddy's brother, Jayaprakash Lakireddy, and his sister-in-law, Annapurna
Lakireddy, have also pleaded guilty to one count each of immigration fraud.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Reddy
Pleaded guilty last month.
PHOTO: RICHARD WISDOM -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
Asha Mehta and Anita Vasa at a candlelight vigil Dec. 9 in Berkeley for Chanti
Pratipatti, the 17-year-old who died last fall from carbon monoxide poisoning in
a Berkeley apartment owned by Lakireddy Bali Reddy. Reddy pleaded guilty last
month to charges that he brought young girls from India for sex and cheap labor.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 23, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATION OF 39 ILLEGAL LABORERS DIVIDES TOWN IMMIGRATION AGENTS WERE
PROTECTING SCHOOLGIRLS, SOME SAY, BUT OTHERS IN GREENFIELD CRY RACISM

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1083 words


The U.S. immigration agents thought they would be hailed as heroes.

After witnessing school girls -- some as young as 9 and 10 -- being sexually
taunted and rubbed against, a dozen agents swept into town and arrested and
deported 39 illegal immigrants.

But there were few public cheers. Instead, the people of Greenfield couldn't be
more furious.

It's whom that anger is directed against, though, that has sharply divided this
overwhelmingly Latino farming community of 12,500 in Monterey County, leading to
a stew of charges and countercharges that include racism, bad police work and
political-correctness gone mad.

To many parents and schoolchildren, it seems so simple.

"I'm glad they were deported," said one 14-year-old Mexican-American girl, an
eighth-grader from Vista Verde Middle School. "We'd walk by and they'd try to
pinch our butts. They'd wave and whistle and make bad remarks."

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said the agency was "meeting the spirit of addressing" one of its
highest priorities -- the deportation of "criminal aliens," a term that refers
to both legal and illegal immigrants guilty or suspected of committing crimes.

But the questions that linger, and anger many here, are more complicated. Did
INS agents swoop in to protect children in a town where 88 percent of the
population is Latino? Or did they use the complaints to arrest anyone they saw
who appeared to be undocumented?

Rummery said the arrests after the April 6 raid were "targeted at men who had
been observed taking part in these activities." But she allowed that "in many
INS enforcement actions some non-criminal aliens will be taken into custody."

Some in town say the INS might have caught a few bad guys, but that a lot of
innocent people were snared in the agents' web -- law-abiding farmworkers who
leave behind wives and children to fend for themselves.

But Rummery said, "Only a few fell into that category. What would you have done
if you had heard these complaints? Ignore them?"

The deportees are indigenous people from Oaxaca, a dirt-poor province in Mexico
where Indians have suffered a long history of racial discrimination. They speak
their own dialect, and few speak Spanish well, isolating them from the general
society.

"We've just come here to work and feed our families in Mexico, not hurt anyone,"
said Andres Cruz Garcia, a Oaxacan farm laborer.

Hugo Juarez, the Mexican vice consul in San Jose, promised to help press for a
human-rights investigation.

Mendoza's Family Games on Greenfield's main drag, directly across from the
police station, might be a good place to start.

The men often hung out in front of the pool hall and arcade, and it was here,
many of the girls said, that they were harassed as they walked home from school.

Another 14-year-old Latina from the middle school said many of the men were
often drunk. "They pretended they weren't but they were," she said, contending
that the men often were drinking alcohol in juice bottles. "All the girls would
just have to walk by fast."

It was also here and at a nearby street corner where -- after being tipped off
by a sheriff's deputy and others -- undercover INS agents watched the men.

"Our agents witnessed behaviors that could have led to new crimes," said
Rummery, who noted that the agency had received written and oral complaints
beginning in mid-March from a white sheriff's deputy assigned to a drug program
in the elementary school, as well as eight Latino parents, children and school
employees. None of them have spoken publicly.

But at an incendiary Greenfield City Council meeting last week, immigration
rights activists and farmworkers excoriated the INS for overreaction,
discrimination and even lying about what their agents saw.

"I think all these charges are fabricated," said Maximano, a longtime farmworker
in Greenfield who did not give his last name.

He and other speakers who made similar allegations were roundly applauded by
more than 100 Latino activists and members of the Teamsters and United Farm
Workers unions who packed the small room. Dozens of Latino laborers left outside
peered into windows to watch their fellow workers ask the council to adopt a
resolution declaring Greenfield an "INS Raid-Free Zone."

Paul Johnston, executive director of the Salinas-based Citizenship Project, said
the agency has a "long and shameful tradition of abuse of authority and
violation of human rights." The raid, he alleged, was done under the false cover
of "defending the sexual purity of . . . girls from dark-skinned, dangerous
predators."

The INS is obviously taking the attacks seriously. The agency's presentation at
the council meeting was made by David Still, acting director of the 49-county
INS district that stretches from Bakersfield to the Oregon border.

Still revealed that six other Oaxacans had been picked up outside the pool hall
on March 30, and that interviews with those men helped lead to the arrests a
week later. One laborer was seen taking off all his clothes in front of the
children, Still said.

Monterey County Sheriff Gordon Sonne said the INS learned of the
allegedharassment when the sheriff's deputy assigned to the D.A.R.E program at
Greenfield Elementary had dinner with an INS agent. The agent encouraged the
deputy to describe the conduct in writing.

At the council meeting, several people criticized Greenfield police for not
taking the matter into their own hands. But Police Chief Raymond Sands said the
information his officers received was hearsay. "We had no specific complaints,
no specific victims," the chief said.

Mayor J.M. Romo and the council directed the city staff to investigate the
arrests and perhaps come back with an ordinance making Greenfield a raid-free
zone.

For Joey Lopez, a former farmworker, the raid brought back haunting memories of
when he worked in the fields in the mid-'70s and farmworkers routinely were
rounded up by the Border Patrol.

"I'm against that kind of thing all the way," said Lopez, 40, a Greenfield
resident since 1967. "I've never seen anything this big happen right in town. It
was like the days when all Mexicans were treated like trash."

But capturing the very division that divides Greenfield, Lopez added: "If it's
true that these young girls were being sexually hassled by these guys, to hell
with them. I have kids, a daughter. So I say ship 'em back. There are perverts
in any nationality."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 22, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE PASSES BILL TO GRANT REPRIEVE TO ILLEGAL WORKERS DEADLINE FOR VISAS WOULD
BE EXTENDED

BYLINE: SUZANNE GAMBOA, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House voted Monday to extend by four months the deadline for illegal
immigrants to apply for visas while in the United States, but the Bush
administration said it would support more time than that.

The Republican measure was approved 336-43 in an expedited vote. Many lawmakers
were looking to the Senate to provide more time than the House measure.

Jeane Mamo, a White House spokeswoman, said President Bush favors "a longer
period of time than the four months." Asked if he'd rather see a 12-month
application period -- the length supported by House Minority Leader Richard
Gephardt, D-Mo. -- Mamo said only that the president is "open to good ideas."

An estimated 640,000 illegal immigrants were eligible under the Legal
Immigration and Family Equity Act to apply for visas without leaving the
country. The law took effect in December and expired April 30.

It applied to illegal immigrants who are spouses or relatives of U.S. citizens
or legal residents, or are sponsored by their employers. They had to have been
in the country on or before Dec. 21, 2000, to be eligible.

Without such a law, illegal immigrants typically are forced to return to their
home countries to apply for U.S. residency, and they can be barred from
returning to the United States for as long as a decade.

Kevin Rooney, acting commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
told Congress earlier this month that the agency favors six to 12 more months
because the INS was slow to come up with regulations, which delayed the
application process.

The four-month bill was passed after bypassing the committee process. Debate was
limited to 40 minutes and the bill could not be amended.

Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas, said the House proposal would create an
"explosion" of work at the INS at a time when the agency will be dealing with
other visa programs.

"The INS . . . is incapable of dealing with this in a four-month period," said
Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., who is sponsoring Senate legislation for a one-year
application period.

CHART:
HOW THEY VOTED
Here's how Bay Area representatives voted Monday on a proposal to extend by four

 months the deadline for undocumented immigrants to apply for visas without
having to leave the country.
YES:
*   Honda
*   Eshoo
*   Farr
*   Lee
*   Lofgren
*   Pelosi
*   Stark
*   Tauscher
*   Woolsey
NO:
none
NOT VOTING:
Lantos

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 22, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLL FINDS SUPPORT FOR LEGALIZING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News wire reports

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 168 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Most voters favor legalizing undocumented workers if they pay their taxes, have
no criminal record and learn to speak English, according to a nationwide
bipartisan poll released Tuesday.

The poll was sponsored by the Service Employees International Union, one of the
nation's largest unions, and Catholic Healthcare West, which employs about
40,000 workers at 48 hospitals in California, Arizona and Nevada.

Of the 1,000 likely voters surveyed this month, 92 percent said an important
criteria for legalization would be whether undocumented immigrants pay U.S.
taxes every year. An additional 88 percent said it was key that they have no
criminal record, and 87 percent said it was important that they learn English
and have steady work.

Without such criteria, voters were split 40 percent in favor of legalizing
undocumented workers and 49 percent opposed. But with such conditions, those in
favor rose to 59 percent, with 34 percent opposed.

The poll has a margin of error of 3.2 percent.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CALIFORNIA & THE WEST
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 26, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS STRUGGLES WITH SECT CASES CHINA'S FALUN GONG MEMBERS CLAIM PERSECUTION

BYLINE: ELSA C. ARNETT, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1440 words


He wrestled with it for months. Finally, he decided he had to go.

So, seven months ago, he gave up his job as a surgeon, left his tearful parents
and only son, and said goodbye forever to his life in China. He came to the Bay
Area with a nylon shoulder bag, no job and no English.

He did it so that every morning at dawn, he can stand in his friend's spare
bedroom, feet slightly apart, eyes shut, breath steady, mind clear and arms
moving in the smooth rhythmic motions prescribed by the Falun Dafa sect,
popularly known as Falun Gong.

If he tried to do this in China, he could be interrogated, tortured or killed.
He didn't even want his name used because just talking about his beliefs in the
United States could pose a threat to family and friends back home.

That surgeon represents the latest thorny question facing U.S. immigration
officials: what to do with the thousands of Chinese seeking asylum after their
government's crackdown on Falun Gong a year ago.

U.S. immigration officials are taking a crash course on the nuances of the sect
formed in the early 1990s by a former Chinese grain clerk now living in New
York. His teachings promote exercise and mediation to arrive at enlightenment,
supernatural powers and salvation.

The trick for U.S. officials is to try to distinguish between a genuine Falun
Gong follower who might come to harm in China and an opportunist trying to get
an easy green card.

In that process, U.S. immigration officials are adding another sentence to the
definition of "freedom."

"It is a challenge to figure out who is telling the truth," said Bill
Strassberger, with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, D.C. "But we'd rather let in a few people who aren't legitimate
Falun Gong followers than send one person back to China who could be persecuted
there."

Immigration officers take special classes, review long applications and
interview the applicant for up to three hours. Often, their decisions rest on
their gut feelings.

The INS does not separate asylum applications into categories -- such as one for
Falun Gong cases and another for political or religious persecution cases -- but
agency officials estimate that several hundred Chinese nationals have been
granted asylum since their government's ban last year. That is a significant
number, because last year, 5,218 applications from Chinese people seeking asylum
were filed or reopened. Only 943 were granted for claims including Falun Gong.

The number of Falun Gong asylum applications has steadily risen during the past
year, according to the Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration
Review, which also grants asylum.

Falun Gong followers say the group is apolitical and not centrally organized.
Its organizers have put the group's total membership at 5 million, mostly in
China. An estimated several hundred live in the Bay Area. Many can be spotted in
public parks, stretching slowly in unison every morning and evening.

'Disturbances' feared

Asylum applications from sect members surged after the Chinese government
condemned the group, saying it "incited and created disturbances, and
jeopardized social stability." That decree came soon after 10,000 silent people
descended on the cloistered Chinese leaders' Beijing compound in April 1999,
demanding recognition for their group.

"It is an evil cult," said Xiao Zhong Yang, a Chinese government official in San
Francisco. "No responsible government could tolerate this."

Yang said Falun Gong urges its members to avoid modern medicine and teaches that
the human race will soon become extinct and that only the group's founder, Li
Hongzhi, can save them.

Some U.S. academics also have branded Falun Gong a cult because of its belief in
extraterrestrial life and levitation. But all the INS says caresabout is whether
practitioners could face persecution in their homeland.

"If a belief is odd to you or me, but results in persecution," said Strassberger
of the INS, "that's grounds for asylum."

In its annual report on human rights, the U.S. State Department in February
chided the Chinese government for its treatment of Falun Gong followers. Many
were herded into stadiums for interrogation. Some were bound hand and foot with
chains and were not given food or water for two days. Others were jolted with
cattle prods or forced to march barefoot through deep snow until they renounced
their beliefs or died.

"The government has been brutal," said Allen Zeng, a software engineer who lives
in San Jose and is the Bay Area contact person for Falun Gong.

Zeng said his brother and sister-in-law, both software engineers living in the
Bay Area, returned to China this year to urge the government to understand that
their group promotes only health and morality. Both were held in detention
centers for several weeks.

Bay Area immigration lawyers said Falun Gong adherents need sanctuary in the
United States, and urged officials to act quickly. But many cautioned that the
U.S. government must also be vigilant about weeding out phony practitioners.

"Word has gotten out that Falun Gong is an easy way to attain lawful status
here," said Steve Baughman, a partner at Baughman & Wang, a San Francisco firm
serving the Chinese community. "It's a shortcut and a lot of people are tempted
to take advantage of it."

Baughman said he turns away several people every day who want him to use Falun
Gong to stay in the United States. Some, he said, admit they aren't Falun Gong
practitioners. Others claim they are followers but cannot answer basic questions
about the practice.

"We're getting good at smelling rats," Baughman said.

Former doctor's tale

The former surgeon, whom Baughman represents, is a case in point of why the
Chinese government is alarmed by Falun Gong.

His father was a Communist Party cadre in a large city in a northern China
province. He went to medical school and became a prominent doctor. He made a
good living, owned a house and a cherished motorcycle. He wasn't religious and
even though he had misgivings about the government's violent 1989 suppression of
democracy advocates in Tiananmen Square, he wasn't about to voice them. He could
live with the restrictive society. He loved his country and never thought about
leaving it.

He first learned of Falun Gong in the early 1990s, when friends and neighbors
talked about a new form of exercise. He didn't take an immediate interest in it
because he thought it was simply a series of superficial exercises. Then, two
years ago, his doubts faded.

His transformation began when he hit a woman with his motorbike. Instead of
trying to sue him, the woman handed him the Falun Gong book, "Zhuan Falun." Then
he met an old friend who he thought had died of a serious illness. Much to his
surprise, his friend was robust and energetic, and attributed his improved
condition to Falun Gong.

The surgeon decided to read the Falun Gong book. Despite his wife's skepticism,
he tried the tai-chi-like exercises. Next, he found himself letting go of his
desire for material things and professional advancement. Instead, he felt "a
concern for others" -- for instance, holding the door for someone or not cutting
in line -- as well as an inner peace.

"Before, I lived a good life, but there were a lot of things I wanted, so I had
a lot of worries," said the surgeon, who is in his mid-40s and has thick,
gold-rimmed glasses and neatly combed, short black hair. "Now, I don't have very
much, but my heart feels good. I don't feel stress or pressure or someone
watching over me."

The Chinese government's increasing intolerance for Falun Gong awakened a sense
of defiance and individuality that the surgeon said he never knew he had. His
faith in Falun Gong, and his anger that the government would try to destroy a
harmless spiritual group, gave him the strength to fight back.

"The more they didn't want me to do it, the more I wanted to do it," he said,
speaking through a translator in his attorney's office.

So, in February, he applied for and received a tourist visa, gave away hishome
and motorcycle and said goodbye to his distraught elderly parents. With only
their carry-on luggage, he and his still-reluctant wife flew to San Francisco.

These days, he misses being a doctor. He misses his parents. He misses having a
steady income. But he says his ancestors endured much hardship, so he, too, will
survive.

His life, his future, hangs on a letter from the INS that could arrive any time
in the next few days, weeks or months. For now, he meditates, stretches and
waits.

And every day, he checks the mailbox.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
An exile says reading a Falun Gong book changed his life. The sect's insignia,
on page, contains yin-yang and swastika symbols representing existence.
[000826 FR 20A]
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
A former surgeon, above, left China to escape the government's suppression of
Falun Gong. The immigrant, shown performing one of the sect's tai-chi-like
exercises, is seeking asylum in the United States.
[000826 FR 1A]
PHOTO: CHIEN-MIN CHUNG -- ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
Right, police detain members of the movement last month in Beijing.
[000826 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 24, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IRAQI CHRISTIANS QUIZZED BY INS

BYLINE: Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: San Diego


U.S. immigration authorities Saturday interviewed Iraqi Christians seeking
asylum who were detained in a hotel in Tijuana, Mexico, before being released to
the United States.

A bus late Friday carried 22 of 133 Iraqis from the hotel to the U.S. border for
asylum interviews with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
claims of a separate group of 79 who had come to the border earlier in the week
were still being processed, said Lauren Mack of the INS.

"We are processing small groups of Iraqi nationals in a quick and orderly
fashion," Mack said.

Catholic Iraqi Chaldeans, who fear religious persecution in their native
country, have been gathering the past few months in Tijuana to seek political
asylum in the United States with the help of Iraqi Christians in the San Diego
area.

It's unclear how long it will take to process the applications. The Iraqis were
expected to be released from a federal jail pending a judge's final decision.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CALIFORNIA & THE WEST
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 18, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DESPITE TALES OF HORROR, COURT KEPT MANY REFUGEES BEHIND BARS AT LEAST 15 PEOPLE
APPEALED JUDGE'S RULING, WON ASYLUM

BYLINE: FREDRIC N. TULSKY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1357 words


Mumin Ibrahim arrived in the United States in December 1994, saying he had fled
Somalia for his life after he watched soldiers kill his parents and brothers and
rape his sister.

And yet, nearly four years later, in a Pennsylvania jail, Ibrahim told a visitor
his bitter assessment of the immigration judge to whom his case had been
assigned. "I would rather die in Somalia," he said, "than go before him again."

There is little wonder why.

Ibrahim's case had been assigned to Donald V. Ferlise of Philadelphia. In a
system marked by gross disparities between asylum judges, Ferlise ranks among
the harshest in deciding asylum cases. Twice, Ibrahim's case had gone before
Ferlise. Twice, Ferlise had denied asylum.

Both times, the immigration judge remained unmoved by the tale of horror, and
concluded that Ibrahim was merely telling a story. It was those decisions that
caused Ibrahim to be locked up for four years, without being accused of any
crime, until an appellate administrative board intervened for a second time in
December 1998 and reversed Ferlise, finding he had struggled to find reasons to
disbelieve Ibrahim when there were no good reasons to do so.

A Mercury News examination of asylum cases shows that it was not unusual for
Ferlise to come to such a conclusion. Within the immigration community, Ferlise,
who hears cases in Philadelphia, has gained notice for his skepticism toward
asylum seekers.

That reputation is confirmed by a statistical analysis of asylum cases that
found Ferlise among the strictest judges in a system with extraordinary
variance.

More important, when the nationality of asylum seekers is considered, to adjust
for cases from countries that don't meet standards for political asylum, Ferlise
ranked among the lowest 10 judges nationwide in granting asylum over the period
1995-99.

Requests for comment from Ferlise through court administration went unanswered.

Days after Ibrahim's first hearing in August 1995, another African asylum seeker
appeared before Ferlise. She was Fauziya Kassindja, then 18, and she told of
fleeing her native Togo to escape the painful tribal ritual of female
circumcision.

Once again, Ferlise doubted the applicant's veracity, in denying asylum: "I have
taken into account the lack of rationality, the lack of internal consistency and
the lack of inherent persuasiveness in her testimony, and have determined that
this alien is not credible."

Kassindja remained locked up until April 1996. Two months later, the appellate
board voted 11-1 to reverse Ferlise and to grant her asylum -- a groundbreaking
decision establishing female mutilation as grounds for asylum. The board
rejected Ferlise's skepticism of Kassindja's testimony, which the board called
"plausible, detailed and internally consistent."

Justice Department officials say they do not track how often immigration judges
are overturned. Because asylum cases are by law secret without the consent of
the asylum seeker, it is impossible to conduct an independent study.

The Mercury News review, however, uncovered 15 cases denied by Ferlise in which
asylum seekers successfully appealed after spending months or even years more in
custody. Repeatedly, Ferlise had found them to be liars.

There was the case of Ibrahim Badrawi, who arrived at John F. Kennedy Airport in
New York in April 1995 saying he had been persecuted in Algeria because he
practiced Christianity. In denying asylum, Ferlise used the precise language he
would repeat in the Kassindja case:

"I have taken into account the lack of rationality; the lack of internal
consistency and the lack of inherent persuasiveness of his testimony, and have
determined that the alien is not credible."

In June 1998, after Badrawi fought all the way to the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, he was granted asylum and released from custody.

It also took the 3rd Circuit to grant asylum in 1998 to Aravinthan
Balasubramanrim, a Tamil man from Sri Lanka, three years after he had fled the
country as militant Tamil rebels were trying to break away. Tamils who are not
part of the rebellion often suffer persecution from both sides.

Balasubramanrim arrived in the United States with a false passport, saying he
had used it to flee a desperate situation. Government forces had killed his
father, he said, and he himself had been held and tortured for more than a year.

After hearing his testimony, Ferlise ruled he was "not a credible witness,"
because of what he had said -- his testimony described far more trouble than
notes taken by the airport inspectors who interviewed him upon his arrival --
and because he had not made eye contact while testifying.

Justice Department statistics show that Balasubramanrim was one of 12 Sri
Lankans who appeared before Ferlise from 1995 through most of 1999; only one
received asylum. Nationwide during this period, immigration judges granted
asylum to Sri Lankan applicants more than 54 percent of the time -- a
recognition of the political horror taking place there.

Mumin Ibrahim, the Somali asylum seeker, had been a patient at the Human Rights
Clinic of the Montefiore Medical Center in New York before his hearing. The
clinic's founder, Dr. Douglas Shenson, concluded that the scars on Ibrahim's
body were consistent with his story of torture.

Shenson had provided Ibrahim's lawyer with an affidavit stating: "Mr. Ibrahim's
scars are as one would expect from his narrative. The cut on his left leg has
the thickened edges of retracted skin consistent with a deep cut from a bayonet.
The center of the scar resembles a burn from an astringent agent which might
have been caused by the disinfectant applied by his neighbor."

Shenson is widely recognized as an expert; the immigration service has used him
to train asylum and deportation officers to detect signs of torture.

But Ferlise refused to consider the affidavit, even though the rules of evidence
at asylum hearings are intentionally looser than at court. The doctor must
testify in person, he said.

Ferlise, however, did allow the INS lawyer to introduce statements from
forensics experts challenging Ibrahim's documents, without those experts being
present.

It was that contrast that caused the appellate review board, in February 1996,
to rule that Ferlise had not given Ibrahim a fair hearing.

Ferlise reheard the case months later, but it went no better for Ibrahim. This
time the judge accepted the Shenson affidavit, but then expressed his own doubts
about Shenson's medical conclusion.

"I mean the court is obviously not an expert in forensic medicine," he said,
according to the hearing transcript. "However, I do state for the record that in
my many, many, many years of listening to asylum claims and seeing the evidence
produced by respondents and seeing their scars, I have never seen a bayonet scar
or a knife scar or a scar which was generated by a machete that looks like
that."

Ferlise concluded that Ibrahim was "totally incredible," explaining, "There are
so many contradictions in his testimony, so many inconsistencies and so many
things that have been said that are totally implausible."

One example Ferlise cited was Ibrahim's description of his sister's rape.The
airport inspectors reported that he said his sister was "raped repeatedly right
in front of me." But at his hearing Ibrahim testified that he was nine meters
away -- being beaten -- when he saw her being raped.

In the summer of 1998, nearly four years after his arrival, Ibrahim told a
visitor at the county jail in Allentown, Pa., that the horrors of Somalia were
better than the prospect of appearing before Ferlise: "The judge wasn't neutral.
I would rather die in Somalia than go before him again."

This time, in December 1998, the appellate board spared Ibrahim that choice. It
overturned Ferlise again and granted asylum to Ibrahim.

Regarding the sister's rape, the board wrote: "We find no implausibility or
inconsistency in the applicant's choice of words. . . . It seems logical that
the applicant would describe a rape which occurred only nine meters away as
having happened in front of him."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: UNCERTAIN REFUGE: A MERCURY NEWS SPECIAL REPORT
RELATED STORIES: PAGES 1A, 20A and 21A
Contact Fredric N. Tulsky at rtulsky@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5512.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: PAUL KUEHNEL -- YORK DAILY RECORD
After spending more than a year behind bars, Fauziya Kassindja was released from
jail. The appellate board later voted 11-1 to reverse Judge Donald V. Ferlise
and to grant her asylum.
[001018 FR 21A]
PHOTO: GREG MAHANY -- YORK DISPATCH
Kassindja, center, is escorted from prison in York, Pa., on April 24, 1996. She
had fled from her native Togo to escape female circumcision.
[001018 FR 21A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 18, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASYLUM SEEKERS FACE CAPRICIOUS LEGAL SYSTEM SOME JUDGES GRANT ASYLUM IN ONLY 1
IN 20 CASES, OTHERS IN 1 IN EVERY 2 FORMER GOVERNMENT IMMIGRATION LAWYERS ARE
TOUGHEST ASYLUM JUDGES RULINGS VARY WIDELY, EVEN FOR APPLICANTS WITH SIMILAR
STORIES

BYLINE: FREDRIC N. TULSKY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2632 words


There were good reasons to think U.S. immigration officials would rule that
18-year-old Rugie Jallow should be given asylum when she arrived here in 1995
from her native Gambia.

A military coup had unseated the elected government in which her father was a
minister; in the year since, he had been repeatedly arrested and held without
charges. Diplomats and human rights groups had protested his treatment.

He sent his children abroad for their safety. A daughter and two sons were
granted asylum in Great Britain. Rugie Jallow and a cousin went to the United
States, where the cousin won asylum, too. Jallow was not so lucky.

She ran into one of the most arbitrary arenas in immigration policy: the
administrative immigration courts, where an asylum seeker's hopes can depend as
much on which judge hears the case as its merits. Jallow faced one of the
nation's toughest judges and was ordered home.

In the first-ever analysis of asylum decisions by the nation's immigration
judges, the Mercury News found extraordinary disparities from one judge to the
next. The analysis, part of a two-year examination of the nation's asylum
system, studied 176,465 cases that came before the 219 administrative
immigration judges from 1995 through most of 1999.

The differences are so extreme that even when conditions in a country like
Bosnia or Somalia are so dangerous that most applicants win asylum, there are
many immigration judges who grant asylum in few or even no cases.

At one end of the spectrum, some judges granted asylum in more than half the
cases they heard. At the other end, judges granted asylum in less than 5 percent
of the cases they heard, some less than 2 percent.

The statistics were obtained through a protracted request under the Freedom of
Information Act to the Department of Justice, for whom the administrative judges
work. Under U.S. and international law, an asylum seeker must prove a "well
founded fear" of persecution on account of one of five factors: race, religion,
national origin, political opinion or membership in a social group.

Asylum seekers can appeal orders sending them back to the homeland they fled;
five years later, Jallow is still appealing her deportation. While she appeals,
Jallow is taking college courses near Baltimore. But other asylum seekers wait
in detention centers or county jails for months, even years, while they appeal
decisions denying them asylum.

The nation's chief immigration judge says he makes no effort to evaluate judges'
performance based on their rates of granting asylum.

"We want the fair decision, the right decision," said Michael J. Creppy, who has
been the chief judge since 1994. "I could care less if you affirm or deny a
case, as long as you feel, based on your expertise, it is the right decision."

The government also says it does not track the records of judges upon appeal to
see how often their denials are overturned. Because asylum hearings are
confidential, there is no way to conduct an independent study.

Asylum lawyers and advocates have long complained that the results are
arbitrary.

Mark R. von Sternberg, a senior lawyer in the Catholic Legal Immigration Clinic
in New York who often trains new lawyers, said, "Interns come in here and think
there are two things that decide the case -- the law, and the facts. I quickly
tell them there is a third factor, the judge, and it can count farmore than the
other two.

"It doesn't take them long to understand."

The statistical analysis identified one factor as critical: the background of
the judges. Those who come from private law practice, often representing asylum
seekers, granted asylum nearly 50 percent more often than those who previously
worked for the government, often as lawyers for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service contesting asylum claims.

Among the system's judges, former government lawyers outnumber former private
lawyers by a ratio of 2-to-1.

Creppy, in fact, has worked to broaden the range of backgrounds among
immigration judges, a group once overwhelmingly made up of white male lawyers
who previously worked for the INS. The increased diversity, he said, enriches
the thinking of the whole court. But it can also accentuate what appear to be
arbitrary results by individual judges within the system, he acknowledged.

Computer analysis
Asylum rate varies
by court, country

The analysis, conducted for the Mercury News by DMR Associates of Springfield,
Va., an organization devoted to analyzing computer data for journalists, found
that the disparities cover a range of circumstances.

Some immigration courts as a whole are more lenient than others. Refugees from
Sri Lanka, for example, who fly into San Francisco and have their cases heard
there win asylum far more frequently than countrymen who fly into Los Angeles.

Some judges seem to favor some parts of the world more than others. Take judges
Mirlande Tadal in Elizabeth, N.J., and Craig M. Zerbe in Chicago, for example.
Tadal granted asylum in 69 percent of the cases she heard from Yugoslavia, while
Zerbe granted asylum in only 28 percent. But of Somali applicants, Zerbe granted
asylum to 95 percent and Tadal only 39 percent.

The gender of the immigration judges may make a difference. Most judges -- 72
percent -- are men, but women are disproportionately among the most lenient, and
men disproportionately among the strictest. Ten of the 24 most lenient judges --
and three of the top four -- are women; at the other end, the six strictest
judges were men; only three women were among the 24 most strict.

Almost no one, however, is tougher in granting asylum than the judge to whom
Rugie Jallow was assigned, William Jankun, who in the period analyzed granted
asylum in just 23 of the 1,569 cases he heard, 1.47 percent. Those cases
included 26 from Gambia, and Jankun, an INS lawyer before becoming a judge in
1995, denied them all.

Just down the hall from Jankun's courtroom in Manhattan, however, is the
courtroom of Immigration Judge Terry Bain, who was in private law practice
before she became a judge in 1994. In the period analyzed, Bain granted asylum
in 53 percent of the cases she heard, ranking in the top 10 percent of judges.
And she granted asylum in four of the eight cases she heard from Gambia.

But Jallow knew nothing of these differences when she was randomly assigned to
Jankun. "I had never been in a courtroom before," she said in an interview. "But
I did not feel the judge was fair to me from the moment the hearing started."

Before the hearing began in May 1997, Jankun ruled that he would not consider
the documents that Jallow had gathered as evidence. Those documents included a
letter from the secretary-general of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva,
expressing the organization's concern about Jallow's father. The letter stated
that the organization "firmly believes that Mr. Jallow's security and that of
his entire family is at present not safeguarded."

Immigration court rules in New York call for lawyers to submit their evidence 10
days ahead of the hearing but are ambiguous about what happens if a deadline
falls on a weekend. Many judges interpret the rule liberally. Jankun did not.
Because Jallow's deadline fell on a Sunday, his lawyer filed the documents the
next day. Jankun then ruled they could not be admitted.

During the hearing, Jankun further restricted Jallow's case, cutting off her
testimony about the abuses faced by her father. "We're not here to try the claim
of asylum that the respondent's father may have," he said.

At the close of testimony, Jankun denied her application for asylum and ordered
her returned to Gambia.

In a pending appeal before the appellate administrative board, Jallow contends
that Jankun's exclusion of her evidence was "an arbitrary andcapricious act"
that calls into question the judge's "interest in fairness."

Immigration judges
Tremendous power;
cause for skepticism

Immigration judges are civil service employees rather than members of the
judiciary. They used to be part of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
colleagues of the INS lawyers who contested the cases they were hearing. In an
effort to make the judges more independent, in 1983 a new sub-agency was created
within the Justice Department, the Executive Office of Immigration Review.

Immigration judges wield awesome power over people who often face the court
under difficult circumstances. Many asylum seekers have no documents or other
evidence to prove their stories of terror. Language and cultural barriers are
common. And as many as half of all asylum seekers have no lawyers to assist
them, according to the Justice Department.

The judges also have cause for skepticism, knowing that many foreign citizens
desperate to escape poverty or to reunite their families may invent false asylum
claims as a way to win a new life in the United States.

Applicants can appeal a judge's denial to an appellate administrative board that
has the power to consider the case anew. The board reverses or sends back for
rehearing about 20 percent of the cases it reviews.

One case reversed by the board was that of the wife of a Nigerian political
activist. She testified before Immigration Judge Cary H. Copeland, in Arlington,
Va., that officials had arrested her, tortured her and repeatedly raped her in
an effort to learn where her husband was hiding.

In denying her application, Copeland said he was troubled by the woman's
"horrendous claims of abuse," and concluded that she had grossly embellished
them. Of her claim that she had been raped three to five times a day for three
days, he said, "The number of rapists at this one detention center is
incredible."

"I want to try to be sensitive to these sexual assault cases," Copeland said at
the end of the hearing. "I'm a 90s kind of guy. On the other hand, I don't want
to be victimized by people coming in to make false claims, and fall over
backwards just because they say they were raped."

In reversing the judge's denial, the appellate panel wrote, "Unfortunately, such
repeated abuse is physically possible, and the mere fact that the applicant
claims that it occurred cannot be used against her as an indication of her lack
of credibility."

Similarly, Immigration Judge Nicole Kim in Newark, N.J., found not credible a
Tamil man who said he had fled Sri Lanka after being tortured by police
officials who suspected he was a member of the violent Tamil Tiger rebels.

The judge added that even if the man had been persecuted, his suspected
membership in the Tigers justified the police interrogation.

In this case, the Tamil man had no luck even on administrative appeal; as a
result, he spent three more years locked up until, finally, a federal court
intervened and ordered the administrative courts to re-examine their decision.
Judge Theodore McKee of the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals wrote that Kim's
reasoning "was nothing short of astonishing."

The decision states, "conduct such as beating with bats, and forcing one to
drink one's own urine when thirsty, ought not to be mistaken for legitimate
government investigations by any judge."

"We emphasize," he wrote for the court, in sending the case back, "that torture
does not constitute valid governmental investigation."

Immigration judges are instructed not to speak publicly about their jobs without
permission. Still, several describe feeling pressured in their work, not to
approve or deny, but to hear cases quickly.

"Quite frankly, there is an impetus (sic) on productivity," Judge Bruce W. Solow
of the immigration court in Miami testified last year at a Labor Department
hearing that focused on the nature of immigration judges' responsibilities.
"Numbers are very important."

Judge's high caseload
Lawyers contest pre-trial system

In a system that values numbers, no one surpasses Judge William A. Cassidy of
Atlanta, who over the five-year period decided 3,846 asylum cases. The next
busiest judge decided 3,056 cases.

And for asylum seekers, the result was unfortunately predictable: Cassidy had
denied asylum 3,637 times, more times than any other judge's entire asylum
caseload, an average of three denials every workday. He granted asylum in only
71 cases -- 1.9 percent of the time.

The other immigration judge in Atlanta, Mackenzie Rast, was hardly a safer
haven. During the five years, he granted asylum 36 times out of 1,477
applicants; the numbers put Rast and Cassidy among the nation's 10 toughest
judges in granting asylum.

"It is extraordinarily difficult to win asylum here," said H. Glenn Fogle Jr., a
lawyer who represents a series of Somali clients who are appealing their cases.

Nationwide, immigration judges granted the claims of Somalis, whose country was
ravaged by tribal warfare for much of the five-year period that was analyzed,
more than half the time. Cassidy gave eight Somalis asylum and denied 79. Rast
granted asylum to six and denied 50.

Creppy, the chief immigration judge, cautioned that a variety of factors could
cause differences in approval rates among immigration courts in different
cities. But he did go to Atlanta to observe how Cassidy handled such a high
caseload.

Creppy said he came away convinced that Cassidy's secret was a system of
pre-trial conferences that he had developed in which he would tell asylum
seekers that he anticipated denying their cases unless they could develop more
evidence of persecution.

"He tells them what they need, to give them the chance to develop more
evidence," Creppy said.

A spokesman for the Executive Office of Immigration Review said Cassidy had said
he would "love to grant more asylum cases." He wants asylum seekers, the
spokesman said, "to give him a reason."

But lawyers in Atlanta contend that Cassidy's system pressures asylum seekers to
drop their claims. One lawyer who is among Cassidy's harshest critics, David C.
Farshy, filed a complaint about the judge after a telephone call to arrange such
a pre-trial conference.

Cassidy made the call to Farshy's office and left a message saying he was with
an INS lawyer and wanted to schedule a conference for one of Farshy's clients.
The answering machine, however, continued recording Cassidy's conversation after
he thought the call had ended -- and so Farshy then heard the judge, on Farshy's
machine, telling the INS lawyer that he was going to rule against Farshy's
client. "I am going to give him a hard time," the judge said.

Outraged, Farshy demanded that Cassidy disqualify himself from the case. Cassidy
refused, and denied the asylum application.

Farshy tried two separate avenues in response. He appealed the denial to the
administrative board. And he filed a formal complaint with the Justice
Department about Cassidy's conversation with the INS attorney.

Neither avenue, it turned out, worked. The appellate board agreed that Cassidy
acted improperly and should have disqualified himself. Nevertheless, it
concluded, he had been right in his legal decision denying asylum. Months later,
the Justice Department wrote Farshy that it concluded that Cassidy's
conversation did not amount to unprofessional conduct worthy of discipline.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
STATISTICAL BREAKDOWNS
[Chart not in database]
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
COMPARING JUDGES
[Chart not in database]
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
TWO EXTREMES
Immigration judges' rates of granting asylum can vary widely according to the
country of the applicant. Judge Craig M. Zerbe, among the toughest 10 percent of

 judges, and Judge Mirlande Tadal, among the most liberal, were almost opposites

 on cases from Yugoslavia and Somalia.
[Chart not in database]

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: UNCERTAIN REFUGE: A MERCURY NEWS SPECIAL REPORT
RELATED STORIES: PAGES 20A and 21A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Charts (3), Diagram;
DIAGRAM: MERCURY NEWS
UNSAFE HARBORS
PHOTO: CHUCK KENNEDY - KNIGHT RIDDER
'I had never been in a courtroom before.
But I did not feel the judge was fair to me
from the moment the hearing started.'
Rugie Jallow, sought asylum from Gambia
[001018 FR 1A]
PHOTO: CHUCK KENNEDY - KNIGHT RIDDER
Rugie Jallow, who faced one of the nation's toughest immigration judges when she
sought asylum from Gambia, is still appealing her case. While she appeals, she
is taking college courses near Baltimore. But other asylum seekers wait in
detention centers or county jails for months or years.
[001018 FR 20A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               October 18, 2000 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

ACLU FORMS LEGAL TEAM IN PROBE OF LANDLORD

BYLINE: From Mercury News Staff and Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: BERKELEY


The American Civil Liberties Union announced Tuesday that it has formed a legal
team to represent the alleged victims of Berkeley landlord Lakireddy Bali Reddy.

The legal team was formed by and includes the ACLU's Immigrants' Rights Project,
based in San Francisco and New York, as well as Oakland immigration attorney
Nancy Hormachea and San Francisco law firm Altshuler, Berzon, Nussbaum, Rubin
and Demain.

The victims and others who have been contacted by the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Services as a result of the investigation into Reddy and his son
Vijay Kumar Lakireddy will not be available for interviews, according to an ACLU
spokesman.

Reddy was indicted by the U.S. Justice Department in February on nine counts,
including transportation of minors in foreign commerce for illegal sexual
activity. He came to the attention of investigators in November 1999 when a
minor girl was found dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in an apartment owned by
Reddy in Berkeley.

Reddy is free on $10 million bail. A hearing in the case is scheduled for Oct.
24.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 19, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE FACES PROBE OVER HIS ASYLUM DECISIONS

BYLINE: FREDRIC N. TULSKY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 504 words


A Philadelphia immigration judge is the subject of a Justice Department
complaint that he is biased against asylum seekers and other immigrants who
appear before him.

The judge, Donald V. Ferlise, was the subject of a report in Wednesday's Mercury
News that there is extraordinary variance among the nation's immigration judges
in granting asylum. The article, based on the first-ever analysis of the asylum
decisions of every immigration judge over a five-year period, identified Ferlise
as one of the harshest in denying asylum.

The complaint, filed with the Justice Department last year by a lawyer outside
Philadelphia, Frank Lindner, accuses Ferlise of a pattern of intimidating
defense lawyers and mischaracterizing evidence to diminish immigrants' legal
claims.

Officials within the Justice Department said Wednesday that they were unable to
comment on an internal investigation into the allegations. Lindner also could
not be reached for comment.

The article detailed a series of cases in which refugees had spent extra months,
even years, locked up until they were granted asylum, after Ferlise initially
ruled that they were not credible.

Also Wednesday, officials at the American Bar Association expressed concern that
the administrative-court system for hearing asylum cases "lacks an effective
review process" for complaints about individual judges.

Chris Nugent, director of an ABA project to encourage more lawyers to take on
pro bono representation of asylum seekers, expressed concern about "judicial
conduct that deters pro bono representation of asylum seekers."

"That conduct," said the program's assistant director, Laura Bawkins, "can
include not only physical actions -- such as berating lawyers and throwing books
-- but also the judge's decisions."

"If you have a judge that you know is not going to grant asylum," Bawkins said,
"that certainly discourages attorneys from taking on the case and putting in the
work that is needed" to effectively handle the case.

In an interview last month, the chief immigration judge, Michael J. Creppy, said
he believes that it is important to delegate to judges wide discretion in how
they decide cases, as long as they stay within the legal standards. But Nugent,
the ABA executive, said Wednesday that asylum laws are "so elastic," that such
discretion permits the wide disparities from judge to judge in their decisions.

Ferlise, like all administrative immigration judges, is directed not to talk to
reporters. In response to a request to speak to Ferlise, a spokesman for the
administrative judges said Wednesday that "he chooses to retain his anonymity."

The spokesman said Ferlise "calls the cases as he believes proper. Cases may not
look the same to everyone."

The complaint against Ferlise is wide-ranging, focusing both on the way Ferlise
rules and the nature of his rulings. The complaint contends that Ferlise
intimidates and berates lawyers, and has filed complaints about their conduct
based on mischaracterizations.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 26, 2000 Thursday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

NEW CHARGES, DEFENDANTS THE SCOPE OF ALLEGED 14-YEAR U.S.-INDIA IMMIGRATION
FRAUD SCHEME EXPANDS

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ AND MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 793 words


On paper, the immigrants were given fake names and fake new families. They got
false visas for high-tech work when in fact they waited tables in Berkeley and
cleaned office buildings. Three girls were brought for sex.

These were some of the amended charges filed Wednesday in federal court against
wealthy Berkeley landlord Lakireddy Bali Reddy and his family, painting a fuller
picture of an alleged immigration fraud scheme that involved more people over
more time than previously alleged. The charges involved three new defendants, 48
illegal immigrants from India and fraud stretching back to 1986 -- more than a
decade longer than originally charged.

The new charges are also part of a plea agreement that could shave nearly 50
years off the maximum prison time for Reddy, in exchange for a guilty plea from
him and four relatives.

The wording of the new charges is similar to the grand jury indictment handed up
in February, but Reddy, 63, now faces a maximum of 23 years in prison instead of
the 70 he could have faced if convicted by a jury. It's unlikely, though, that a
judge will mete out maximum sentences for all five defendants -- three of whose
names hadn't surfaced until last week.

After an unexpected announcement last week that the family was willing to forgo
a trial, Reddy, his two sons, his youngest brother and his sister-in-law are
expected to enter guilty pleas to the new charges Monday. The entire family
faces at least one conspiracy count of illegally importing Indians into the
country.

The Reddy family could face more than the federal criminal charges. They could
also be slapped with a civil lawsuit and possibly state charges.

"These allegations are just the tip of the iceberg of the abusive and
exploitative practices the defendants committed," said Lucas Guttentag, director
of the American Civil Liberties Union National Immigrants Rights Project. The
ACLU is representing two unnamed victims involved in the Reddy case.

Michael Rubin, a labor and human rights attorney, also said on Wednesday he soon
plans to file a class-action civil suit with the ACLU against Reddy and more of
his relatives. The civil suit will seek "complete relief" for his clients. Rubin
declined to say how much money his clients were seeking.

However, Rubin said he was waiting to see if all five defendants indeed plead
guilty Monday. Pleading guilty essentially establishes that everything stated in
the criminal complaint is true.

Reddy, the key player in the alleged scheme, is believed to own a real estate
empire worth at least $50 million. Reddy is expected to be arraigned today.

His 31-year-old son, Vijay Lakireddy, was arraigned Wednesday, accused of
helping his father illegally import the foreigners, often handing them off to
his father to have sex, and lying to immigration officials.

Reddy's other son, Prasad Lakireddy, 42, of Lafayette, Reddy's youngest brother,
Jayaprakash Lakireddy, 47, and his wife, Annapurna Lakireddy, 46, both of
Oakland, are expected to be arraigned as soon as Friday. The three each face one
conspiracy charge of illegally importing foreigners, which carries a maximum
penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

None of the defendants, their attorneys or prosecutors from the U.S.Attorney's
Office would comment on the new charges.

The court documents detail a pattern of alleged immigration violations.
Prosecutors contend Reddy and his relatives brought over Indian nationals from
his home village in the state of Andhra Pradesh, a pivotal region for the
immigration of high-tech India workers to Silicon Valley. The Reddy family
allegedly picked them up at the airport and took them to the many apartments,
construction sites and restaurants they owned or managed, including the popular
Pasand restaurants in the East and South bays. The immigrants worked for less
than minimum wage.

For example, in October 1991, Reddy allegedly sought permission to bring over
two 12- and 13-year-old girls, claiming their mothers were already in the United
States. He arranged similar mother-daughter relationships in 1991 for two 16-
and 17-year-old girls, according to the documents. And on April 19, 1992,
Annapurna Lakireddy allegedly signed a petition on behalf of a man calling
himself Veera Reddy Guduru, the name of Annapurna's dead brother-in-law.

Immigration and Naturalization Services spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said it is
illegal for foreigners to come to the United States on fraudulent visas. If
prosecuted and found guilty, they could face five years in prison and $250,000
in fines.

Prosecutors from the U.S. Attorney's Office would not comment if they were
seeking charges against these foreigners, or if they would be deported.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Reddy
Berkeley landlord faces a maximum of 23 years in prison.
[001026 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 28, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FUJIMORI PUNISHES 2 OFFICIALS AFTER POLITICIAN ESCAPES TO U.S.

BYLINE: KEVIN G. HALL, Mercury News Rio de Janeiro Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 499 words

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru


Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori fired his top immigration official and an
airport official Friday because they didn't prevent the escape of a congressman
who is at the center of Peru's worst political crisis in decades.

On a videotape widely circulated in mid-September, Congressman Alberto Kouri
appeared to take a $15,000 bribe from intelligence chief Vladimiro Montesinos
and agree to switch parties and join the ruling Peru 2000 coalition. Once the
tape was leaked to the press and aired on national television, it effectively
brought down the powerful and feared Montesinos and forced President Fujimori to
announce he would resign on July 28 after new elections.

Kouri slipped out of Peru early Friday, hours after a congressional committee
accused him of accepting the alleged bribe in July. He took a 2 a.m. American
Airlines flight to Dallas-Fort Worth, and his whereabouts were not immediately
known.

It was not clear Friday night if Peru would ask the United States to locate and
return him.

Kouri's flight to the United States added new force to the broadly shared
impression that Fujimori no longer commands loyalty and his spy master remains a
force behind the scenes.

It fell to Fujimori's Cabinet chief, Federico Salas, to announce Friday that
immigration chief Victor Hugo Huamen del Solar and Jorge Vasquez Lopez,
immigration director at Jorge Chavez Airport in Lima, had been fired.

Kouri's brother Alex, mayor of the port city of Callao, was interviewed on
national television and urged his brother to return "so when he is charged he
can show his face before justice."

Montesinos was Fujimori's closest political aide for more than a decade. After
the videotape aired in September, he fled to Panama. He returned to Peru without
warning on Monday and dropped out of sight. Many Peruvians feared acoup was more
likely with Montesinos in the country because of his influence over the armed
forces and judiciary.

Fujimori spent much of Wednesday and Thursday personally leading a military and
police manhunt for Montesinos near a military country club east of Lima, but by
late Friday Montesinos had not been located.

Fujimori's main rival, Alejandro Toledo, who bowed out of May elections charging
an unfair race, announced Friday he would soon meet with the presidents of
Brazil, Argentina and Chile and then travel to the United States and Europe. He
is trying to improve his international image before Peru's presidential election
on April 8.

"I know abroad they see us as a folkloric country, especially now in light of
the recent days where we seem like a police soap opera," Toledo told reporters.
He said he was trying to change that impression of Peru and calm international
investors.

Meanwhile, to the relief of Peruvian authorities, there were four bidders Friday
for the expected privatization of operations at Jorge Chavez International
Airport. The companies pledged at least $100 million in investment over three
years.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no photo credit]
Fujimori
[001028 FR 7A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 1, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FULL ANALYSIS WOULD SHOW FAIRNESS FOR ASYLUM SEEKERS

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. CREPPY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 600 words


IN a series of articles published last month in the Mercury News, Fredric N.
Tulsky reported on what he claimed was a grant-supported "analysis of the
nation's asylum system" as it relates to the cases which are heard before
immigration judges throughout the United States. An analysis would require
balance and fairness, neither of which appears evident in these stories.

The articles provide a distorted view of the asylum process in immigration court
by using only the most extreme examples of decisions which, in Tulsky's opinion
and that of attorneys who lost some cases, seemed wrong. The articles cite
"extraordinary disparities" in case results among the judges and court
locations, as if we should expect some kind of national uniformity in
decision-making in spite of what even he acknowledges as "wide differences in
the nature of asylum claims." The focus, however, is entirely on the differences
among the judges, not on the differences among applicants. Where's the balanced
analysis?

Rather than telling the full story of the more than 300,000 asylum cases
completed by immigration judges in the study's five-year period, the Mercury
News chose instead to present a narrow examination of a few exceptional cases.
The articles never mentioned that, during that five-year period, the so-called
"grant rate" in asylum cases overall increased steadily from 19.1 percent in
1995 to 36.1 percent in 1999. They excluded any examples of the 30,381
applicants who received asylum in an immigration court during the same period.
Instead, the articles took the easy course of headlining negative results and
"top 10" lists.

The purpose of the asylum process is to provide refuge to individuals who have a
"well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality,
political opinion, or membership in a particular social group." That is the one
principle or standard that is applied uniformly by every immigration judge in
every immigration court. And all asylum seekers, regardless of nationality or
background, are given an equal opportunity to make their claims of a
well-founded fear of persecution in a system that provides due process,
including rights to appeal from the immigration court and the Board of
Immigration Appeals all the way to the Supreme Court.

We pride ourselves on the diversity of our immigration judges. As much as
possible, the Executive Office for Immigration Review and I want our judges to
reflect the broad, diverse cross-section of our society. I could report many
"good news" stories about them. For example, a number of our immigration judges
coordinate pro bono programs to assist asylum seekers and others who cannot
afford representation to obtain counsel, so that our proceedings may be
conducted with fairness, timeliness, and efficiency. Some volunteer with law
clinics, teach immigration law, and work with local bar associations to promote
a better understanding of the complexities of immigration law.

Regarding the extreme cases examined by the Mercury News, if any immigration
practitioner or alien is concerned with the behavior, conduct, ordemeanor of an
immigration judge, the office in which to pursue discipline of such acts is the
Office of Professional Responsibility in the Department of Justice. The office
is a legitimate avenue for persons to seek redress in those cases where they
believe there have been abuses of power or authority.

It is unfortunate that the Mercury News did not see fit to consider the bigger
picture of the asylum process instead of presenting a one-sided analysis of the
facts.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Michael J. Creppy is chief immigration judge for the U.S. Department of Justice
in Falls Church, Va.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 21, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NIGERIAN-AMERICAN DOCTOR SETTLES FALSE-ARREST CLAIM

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 120 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A San Jose doctor of Nigerian descent has settled a false arrest lawsuit against
immigration officials for $50,000, a civil rights group announced Monday.

The doctor, who asked that her name be withheld, settled the suit in U.S.
District Court in San Francisco last week.

Attorney Robert Rubin said the doctor, an American citizen who was born in
Redwood City, was returning from a visit to Nigeria when she was arrested in
July 1999 at the airport by U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service agents.

She was kept in handcuffs and a leg shackle for five hours at San Francisco
International Airport, said Rubin, legal director of the Lawyers' Committee for
Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk of the Bay

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 8, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION PANEL KEEPS PALESTINIAN IN JAIL

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 93 words

DATELINE: FLORIDA


A Palestinian who has been jailed for three years without charges on evidence
the government won't disclose was denied his freedom again Thursday when an
immigration panel blocked a judge's order releasing him.

Wednesday, U.S. Immigration Judge Kevin McHugh ordered Mazen al-Najjar released
on $8,000 bond, saying the government failed to give him enough information to
defend himself.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service successfully blocked the release when
the Board of Immigration Appeal in Washington said the case needed further
study.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 10, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASYLUM SEEKERS FACE TOUGHER U.S. LAWS, ATTITUDES RULES ADOPTED IN THE 1990S HAVE
GIVEN OFFICIALS NEW POWERS, BUT CRITICS SAY SOME REFUGEES FLEEING PERSECUTION
ARE TURNED AWAY.

BYLINE: FREDRIC N. TULSKY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3254 words


It was September 1998, and Immigration Commissioner Doris N. Meissner was
testifying before a Senate subcommittee examining the nation's asylum policy.
"People yearning to be free," she said, "should not languish behind bars."

That month, a 25-year-old refugee named Dominic Nunu completed a full year
behind bars in an Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in New
York City. Nunu remained locked up for eight more months, even though he had
committed no crime, and an immigration judge had found credible his story of
persecution in his homeland, Liberia.

Nor did Nunu's troubles with the immigration service end upon his release in May
1999. Almost a year later, INS officers took him in handcuffs and shackles to
John F. Kennedy Airport, where only Meissner's direct intervention, from her
home in Washington, D.C., spared him from being flown back to Africa.

The story of Nunu's long and still unsuccessful struggle to win asylum
illustrates how immigration measures adopted by the United States in the 1990s
have come at the expense of some of the most vulnerable people in the world,
victims of persecution who flee to the United States in search of freedom and
safety.

It is a story repeated thousands of times a year, as refugees without documents
encounter an asylum system administered by an immigration service overwhelmed by
a conflicting mission: keeping out people who lack proper papers.

The result is that an unknown number of asylum seekers are turned around at
airports by immigration inspectors and sent back to the countries they fled. The
lucky ones -- those who at least will have a chance to plead their case
forasylum -- are like Nunu; they are put in handcuffs and taken to an INS jail.

"I thought I would find peace and freedom," Nunu said in an interview. "I never
imagined it would be like this."

In examining the asylum system, the Mercury News interviewed hundreds of asylum
seekers and their advocates, Justice Department officials and legal scholars,
and visited detention centers and county jails in 12 states where asylum seekers
were held.

The review revealed an obstacle course of tough laws, regulations and attitudes
that confronts asylum seekers, who risk being wrongly turned away at the airport
or being locked up for months or years before winning asylum and release. The
Mercury News found 56 cases in which refugees won their asylum cases only after
more than a year in custody.

Rather than a policy designed "to make sure that those who need protection
receive it, we have a policy that is focused on making sure that no one gets in
who does not belong," said Arthur C. Helton, senior fellow at the Council on
Foreign Relations.

The inevitable result, he said, is that mistakes will occur that put vulnerable
people in harm's way.

The U.S. Supreme Court long ago limited the constitutional protections of
arriving immigrants, to the point that people accused of murder have more
rights. Asylum seekers have no right to a lawyer, no guarantee that they will be
represented in hearings that involve issues of life and death. And it is solely
up to the INS -- the agency that is locking them up and trying to send them back
home -- whether they should be released from custody.

Tightening the law
Response to abuses leads to new hurdles

Dominic Nunu arrived in New York in 1997 as a stowaway on a freighter from the
Ivory Coast. On board, Nunu was handcuffed by INS officers and questioned. The
officers then took him to a detention center in Queens, where he would spend the
next 20 months.

Almost 50 years ago, in the wake of World War II, the United States joined other
countries in urging a modern model for protecting people who fear persecution on
account of their race, religion, national origin, social group or politics.

Inherent in the model, which was later enacted as U.S. law, is recognition that
persecution victims often must flee without valid passports or visas, because
they have no way to obtain them from the government that is persecuting them.
Whether Jews in World War II or Bosnians in the '90s, they often escape with
false documents or no documents at all.

By the early '90s, however, the U.S. asylum system had become open to abuse.
People would show up, ask for asylum and then "disappear, and of course stay in
this country indefinitely," in the words of one critic, Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas.

In 1993, people who had entered the country by asking for asylum were linked to
the World Trade Center bombing in New York and the shooting of CIA workers
outside the agency's headquarters in Virginia.

The immigration service tightened the system by adopting regulations. But
Congress, over the agency's objections, went further. As part of the 1996
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, it enacted a series
of new challenges to anyone arriving without a valid passport. Its name:
expedited removal.

The first hurdle of expedited removal occurs at the nation's airports and ports
of entry, when immigrants who arrive without valid documents are sent to a
secure area for questioning. In interviews, many asylum seekers speak with
horror about the process -- being handcuffed, then questioned, by armed
inspectors, often in a language they don't understand.

It is "akin to filling out a tax form in another language," said Kathryn
Jastram, an official of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in
Geneva. "And if you do it wrong, you get sent back."

Inspectors are empowered to turn away anyone who lacks valid documents and does
not express a fear of being harmed if sent back. Under the 1996 law, for the
first time, no judge has authority to review that decision. Meissner, who
completed her term as immigration commissioner Nov. 17, calls that
"extraordinary and unprecedented power."

The only way to protect fully against mistakes, she said, "is through due
process procedures. And those have been eliminated."

To enforce the new law fairly, the INS instituted several measures to protect
refugees from being wrongly turned away. Inspectors must read each person a
statement saying that they are entitled to a private interview if they have fear
of persecution. Interpreters must be available, at least by phone. To order
anyone sent back, inspectors must get their supervisors' approval. A team of INS
officials regularly reviews case files from around the country.

The agency also offered inspectors training. But Meissner called the task of
teaching 4,900 inspectors how to protect refugees, on top of their enforcement
responsibilities, a "very substantial" challenge.

"You don't recruit inspectors for international relations, or for counseling
asylum seekers," she said.

The INS associate commissioner for enforcement, Kenneth J. Elwood, said he has
faith in his inspectors' ability to screen asylum seekers. And in a report
issued in September, the General Accounting Office said that a review of
inspectors' files found that the system appears to be working.

Nevertheless, the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights has documented several
cases in which asylum seekers narrowly escaped being wrongly sent back, and a
handful of reports of people who were sent back -- incidents that the Mercury
News review confirmed.

Human rights groups say they are worried there are more cases that have been
hidden from the public. At a conference on refugee protection in November, the
INS general counsel, Bo Cooper, called the incidents "very serious allegations,
that we are taking very seriously."

The 1996 law also requires the detention of anyone who does get past the airport
screening, at least until a trained asylum officer can interview the immigrant
to assess whether the fear of persecution is "credible." Those who are found to
have "credible fear" can then apply for asylum, and they become eligible to be
considered for release from custody.

According to the General Accounting Office, more than 95 percent of the
immigrants who clear the airport hurdle also pass the credible fear test. Among
them in September 1997 was Nunu, whose credible fear interview took place five
days after he arrived in New York.

Detention system
Number in lockup
has soared since 1996

Clearing that hurdle opened two doors for Nunu. He was eligible to apply for
asylum before an administrative immigration judge. And he was eligible to be
considered for release while his application was pending.

It was at this stage that Nunu, like many asylum seekers, got caught up in INS
detention. The decision on whether to release him was in the hands of the same
person holding him in detention, the INS district director for New York.

INS detention responsibilities have rocketed since 1996. The agency is mandated
to lock up not only people who arrive without documents, but also non-residents
who have criminal records. The result is that the agency holds 20,000 people in
a network of about 18 detention centers and, as needed, in more than 700 county
jails with which it contracts.

The INS guesses that fewer than 1,000 of the people locked up each night are
asylum seekers. Most spend weeks in detention, and then are released after
establishing credible fear. But many spend months, even years, in custody while
they battle for asylum.

Many factors affect whether an asylum seeker is released. They are more likely
to be locked up in the New York district, which has a detention center with beds
designated for non-criminals, than in districts where officials must search for
space in local jails.

District directors also differ in how they balance the risk of releasing a
potential terrorist against the risk of adding to the trauma of a refugee. The
directors, agency spokesman Russell Bergeron said, are naturally going to err on
the side of caution.

The GAO report supports the agency's concern that a substantial number -- at
least a quarter -- of asylum seekers will fail to appear as scheduled if they
are released. An INS pilot program in New York, however, suggests that the
number can be lowered by providing supervision.

But there is another motivation. INS officials in some districts believethat
detaining asylum seekers serves to discourage other illegal immigrants from
trying to enter the country -- even though their boss, Meissner, disapproved of
using detention as a deterrent.

"There are some hard-core INS officers who keep score, to see how many asylum
seekers they can keep out," said Grover Joseph Rees, who was the INS general
counsel during the Bush administration and now is staff director of a House
subcommittee. "The problem is they want to keep out the credible asylum seekers,
as well as the incredible."

The agency's management of detention is further undermined by institutional
obstacles, as the INS, after years of neglect by Congress, expands to meet new
demands placed on it.

"Outside of wartime, you are talking about the biggest growth of any agency of
government," said Kristine M. Marcy, a former senior counsel for field
operations. The INS, she said, is "wrestling with two of the most difficult
things an organization can do -- change and growth -- simultaneously."

One result is that the agency has no precise data on the asylum seekers it is
holding, even though Congress enacted a law requiring annual reports. The first
report was due Sept. 1, 1999, but has yet to be filed. An INS spokesman said
that complying with the law would drain resources from other mandated
responsibilities.

At times the agency has even lost detainees.

In one case, an asylum seeker lost his appeal in federal court when he did not
appear. It turned out that the INS had lost track of him and had failed to bring
him from jail for his hearing.

In another, the lawyer for a group of detainees suing over dangerous jail
conditions wrote to the INS, desperately trying to find a member of the group
who had been moved from a jail in Pennsylvania. Justice Department lawyers sent
a chilling response: the woman had been deported.

That answer proved wrong, however. Days later, the asylum seeker contacted the
lawyer from another jail in Pennsylvania to which the INS had moved her.

In a third case, a Chinese youth held in a Los Angeles juvenile center was
forgotten by the INS for a year, until he approached a social worker to ask
about his case.

Cautionary tale
Case of one man
highlights problems

A decentralized structure also left Meissner struggling to impose order among
the 33 districts and to end disparities in detention practices from one district
to the next. At the Senate subcommittee hearing in September 1998, she assured
senators that the agency would complete an analysis of detention practices
within a month. That report was never produced.

Meissner later said in an interview that she had been unable to get the data she
needed from the district directors.

Frustrated by that failure, Meissner ordered a team of officials in May 1999 to
go to New York and review the cases of that district's detainees. By then, Nunu
was in his 20th month of custody; both his legal case and his detention had
turned into cautionary tales.

Nunu had had his asylum hearing more than a year earlier, before Immigration
Judge Donn Livingston. Nunu had described how, at the age of 17, he had come
home and found his parents and two sisters dead, murdered by rebels advancing
through his neighborhood during the Liberian civil war.

He had fled to the Ivory Coast, where he found shelter in a convent for several
years. But the convent closed, leaving him with nowhere to go. He returned to
Liberia, he said, hoping to regain his family's house and possessions. Instead,
he said, he was detained. Upon his release, he fled Liberia again for good.

In desperation, he boarded a cargo ship carrying cotton, without knowing its
destination. Weeks later, when it arrived in New York, he was taken into custody
by the INS.

Livingston ruled that Nunu's story was credible, but he denied his application
for asylum. Nunu, he ruled, could be safely returned to the Ivory Coast.

Following that decision, Nunu's case went awry. Either the law students who were
helping him failed to mail a notice of his intention to appeal, or the filing
was lost by the court. Months passed, and Nunu waited in custody.

In May 1998 -- five months after his hearing -- Nunu sought to be released
pending the appeal. A Manhattan church, Redeemer Presbyterian, had offered to
provide housing and support. But the New York district director, Edward J.
McElroy, was unpersuaded. Nunu had been a stowaway, he wrote, and so was a
flight risk.

Soon Meissner began hearing protests about Nunu's detention. A social worker
from the church wrote. Congressional staff members became involved. So did the
Roman Catholic cardinals of New York and Boston.

Eleanor Acer, senior coordinator of the asylum program for the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights, wrote Meissner that Nunu's case was proof that some INS
districts were not following Meissner's guidance.

In September 1998 -- the month Meissner testified to Congress -- Nunu helped
lead a hunger strike among asylum seekers protesting their detention. Soon
after, he began filing repeated requests for medical attention, complaining of
weakness and blurred vision. When he finally was taken to a hospital, his
condition was diagnosed as myasthenia gravis, a neurological disease.

That December, after having problems getting his medication, Nunu collapsed in
the detention center and was hospitalized for eight days. A neurologist
recommended that he be released for health reasons.

But INS officials were skeptical, and in April 1999 the district director
refused a request for Nunu's release on medical grounds. The Public Health
Service had concluded, district director McElroy said, "there is no medical
reason to believe that the continued detention of Mr. Nunu will endanger him
medically."

A month later, Meissner sent officials to review the files of detainees in New
York. That week, district officials abruptly reversed themselves and released
Nunu on medical grounds.

But Nunu's legal problems were far from over. The previous January, an
administrative appeals board had decided it would not even consider his appeal,
because he had missed the deadline for filing.

And so in March 2000, after several months in the care of Redeemer Presbyterian,
Nunu was directed by New York district officials to return to the detention
center on April 17 for deportation. Nunu turned to a new lawyer, Millicent
Clarke, who argued that the appeals board should permit Nunu the chance to have
his appeal considered. He should not be penalized for the mistakes of law
students, she said.

Clarke, who spent 17 years working for the INS and the U.S. Attorney in New York
before entering private practice, said she was surprised by the way New York
officials responded. "I have never seen such vindictiveness by the agency," she
said.

New York officials refused to delay their plans to remove Nunu. On the night of
April 18, a staff member of Redeemer Presbyterian, Chris Gilbert, received a
call from Nunu. Nunu was at Kennedy Airport, where INS officials were putting
him on a plane.

Gilbert called Clarke, who advised him to take any measures he could. It was
about 11 p.m., and Gilbert tried one last desperate measure. He had been given
Meissner's home telephone number by a mutual acquaintance.

Now, he dialed the number. "I was trembling," Gilbert recalled, "but made the
case." Within an hour, INS guards came on board to retrieve Nunu. He assumed at
first that the plane was overbooked, and that his seat was needed.

Nunu was returned to the Queens detention center, and three days later, on Good
Friday, he was released. He remains free, while his lawyer continues to try to
persuade Justice Department officials to permit the case to be reopened.

Struggle goes on
Despite alterations,
greater reforms urged

Meanwhile, INS officials continue to struggle with the larger detention issue.
The agency promised months ago to issue a new regulation making clear that
regional directors, not district directors, have ultimate authority over the
release of detained asylum seekers. But no regulation has been issued.

Instead, Meissner developed a new system, in which officials in Washington are
to review release decisions throughout the districts, much as airport inspection
cases are already reviewed.

The reasons for the new policy are obvious. As Meissner said in an interview:
"Obviously, we have been concerned about unevenness."

Some officials say the agency needs to go further. Alexander Aleinikoff of the
Georgetown University Law Center was the first INS general counsel under
President Clinton. At a Nov. 14 conference on asylum, he said it is time that
decisions about releasing asylum seekers are taken from the INS officials who
are responsible for trying to deport them.

Instead, Aleinikoff said, decisions on release should be handled by the
administrative judges who hear applications for asylum, who work for a Justice
Department agency separate from the INS.

"There is no reason parole is left to the district directors," Aleinikoff said.
"This is an easy regulatory fix and an obvious one."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
SCREENING FOR ASYLUM
Source: GAO, based on data from the INS and the Executive Office of Immigration
Review
[Please see microfilm for chart]

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: Page 18A
ABOUT THE SERIES
This is the second article in a series based on a two-year examination of the
nation's asylum system. The first, on Oct. 18, reported extraordinary
disparities among immigration judges in granting applications for asylum. Read
the series on the Web at http::
www0.mercurycenter.
com: special:
UNCERTAIN REFUGE: A MERCURY NEWS SPECIAL REPORT
This article was reported with financial support from the Alicia Patterson
Foundation and the Fund for Investigative Journalism.

GRAPHIC: Photos (6), Chart;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
"You don't recruit inspectors for international relations, or for counseling
asylum seekers." -- FORMER IMMIGRATION COMMISSIONER DORIS N. MEISSNER, LEFT,
DESCRIBING THE CHALLENGE OF TEACHING 4,900 INSPECTORS TO PROTECT REFUGEES IN
ADDITION TO ENFORCEMENT DUTIES.
PHOTO: DRU NADLER -- SPECIAL TO THE MERCURY NEWS
Dominic Nunu goes over paperwork involved in his case seeking asylum in the
United States. In addition to spending 20 months in detention, Nunu was on the
verge of being deported before the INS commissioner personally interceded.
PHOTO: PETER STEITZ -- BERGEN RECORD ARCHIVES
People who oppose detaining asylum seekers while their cases are decided gather
outside the Elizabeth, N.J., detention center on April 2, 1999, for a Good
Friday protest.
PHOTO: COURTESY OF BERGEN RECORD ARCHIVES
Video still of an asylum seeker at the INS detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.,
placed in leg irons after officials said he became agitated over his detention.
Asylum seekers have no right to a lawyer and no guarantee that they will be
represented in hearings.
PHOTO: BETH BALBIERZ -- BERGEN RECORD ARCHIVES
A view of the inside of the detention center for asylum seekers in Elizabeth,
N.J. The center includes bars and windows with reinforced glass.
PHOTO: DRU NADLER -- SPECIAL TO THE MERCURY NEWS
Dominic Nunu arrived in New York in 1997 as a stowaway after fleeing Liberia. He
spent 20 months in detention before being freed, but has yet to be granted
asylum.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 12, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

INS TO RELEASE ANOTHER MUSLIM ACTIVIST AFTER YEARS OF BEING HELD ON 'SECRET
EVIDENCE'

BYLINE: JOYCE M. DAVIS, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 572 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service last week freed a leader of a
militant Islamic group in Algeria who had been imprisoned for four years without
being told details of the charges against him. Today, another Muslim activist is
expected to be released, authorities said.

A spokesman for the INS said the agency decided to release Anwar Haddam, a
leader of Algeria's Islamic Action Front, late Thursday. The INS has described
Haddam as "a dangerous man," and last week U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno
blocked a move to grant him political asylum in the United States.

Haddam had been held on charges based on "secret evidence." Authorities said
that, to protect national security, Haddam was not told details of the charges
against him.

A spokesman for the INS in Miami said the agency also would release Mazen al
Najjar, 43, today after the Board of Immigration Appeals on Monday lifted an
order issued last week that blocked his release.

Al Najjar was held in a Florida jail for four years on secret evidence that
allegedly suggests he is a terrorist. Authorities charge that al Najjar is
connected to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, which considers itself engaged in an
armed struggle against Israel.

Last week, U.S. Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh ordered al Najjar's release on
$8,000 bond, saying the government failed to give him enough information to
defend himself.

The secret evidence laws, which have existed since the 1950s, allow immigrants
to be detained without being told of the charges against them. After the 1996
Oklahoma City bombing, the secret evidence laws were strengthened. About 20
immigrants, mostly Arab-Americans, are held in U.S. jails without criminal
charges on classified evidence.

Haddam, the Algerian group leader, was released even though the INS considers
him "a danger to the United States and to national security," INS spokeswoman
Maria Cardona said Monday. "He should not be in this country."

But the INS, an agency of the Justice Department, decided to release Haddam
under certain conditions because the Board of Immigration Appeals recommended
that he be freed, Cardona said. The BIA is the highest administrative body for
interpreting and applying immigration laws within the Justice Department and is
independent from the INS.

Cardona said the INS believes Haddam should be expelled to Algeria, even though
he has been sentenced to death there. He must remain in the greater Washington
area for the next 45 days while Reno considers the objections of the INS to
granting him asylum. He also cannot leave the country and must routinely notify
the INS of his whereabouts.

Haddam had been a lobbyist for Algeria's Islamic Salvation Front in the United
States until he was detained in December 1996. The group, better known by its
French acronym FIS, had been a popular political and charitable organization in
Algeria before it took up arms against the government in 1993. Algerian leaders,
backed by the military, canceled 1992 parliamentary elections that FIS leaders
seemed destined to win, plunging the country into a civil war in which an
estimated 65,000 people have been killed.

Haddam applied for political asylum in the United States in 1993, claiming he
would be killed if he returned to Algeria. Five years later, he was tried in
absentia in Algeria for being a member of the Algerian Jihad Islamic Front, a
militant faction of the FIS.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Associated Press contributed to this report.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2000

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 12/22/00, pg. 2A) An article Dec.
12 in the national report about the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
release of Anwar Haddam, leader of a militant Islamic group, stated that about
20 other people it described as ""Arab Americans" are similarly being held in
U.S. jails without criminal charges on secret, classified evidence. Secret
evidence can be used only against people who are not citizens of the United
States, and the article should have made clear that those U.S. detainees are not
citizens.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 28, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COMPROMISE STILL DOESN'T GO FAR ENOUGH FAIRNESS FOR IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 552 words


FOR upward of 18 years, nearly 400,000 immigrants have been seeking permanent
residency and the benefits that come with it: the right to apply for a driver's
license, attend a public college on in-state tuition, obtain a Social Security
card and become a citizen.

The group, mostly from Mexico and half living in California, had been wrongly
excluded from the 1986 general amnesty for undocumented immigrants. They were
victims of either arbitrary denials or picayune rules.

Now, as a result of the budget agreement between Congress and President Clinton,
they will be eligible to apply for permanent residency.

They will still need to document that they were living in America in 1982 -- a
requirement that some may have difficulty meeting, unless the Immigration and
Naturalization Service applies a lenient standard. Clinton had sought to extend
an amnesty to all undocumented immigrants who had been in the United States as
of 1986. But the compromise, signed into law this month, is a step toward
establishing justice that was too long denied.

Other immigrant groups weren't as fortunate. Clinton and Democratic leaders had
made immigration fairness an election-year priority and sought to repeal much of
an anti-immigrant law passed in 1996. Congress, though, was willing to make only
half-amends.

The budget bill does create a new visa category that will reunite immigrant
families. Spouses and minor children of legal permanent residents will be able
to come to America while pursuing residency.

And the bill does restore, though only through April 30, a program that permits
certain certain categories of undocumented workers to apply for a green card if
they pay a $1,000 fine. Otherwise, they'd have to leave the country for either
three or 10 years.

But Congress refused to restore food stamps and health benefits to poor pregnant
women and children who are legal immigrants.

And it refused to retract a harsh provision of the '96 law that redefined crimes
requiring deportation. That provision has resulted in the expulsion of some
long-time legal residents who had been convicted of minor infractions many years
earlier.

Lastly, Congress refused to grant immigrants from Central America fleeing
right-wing dictators the same opportunity for asylum that it has granted those
escaping leftist regimes.

Permanent residency has been automatic for Cubans and was for Nicaraguans who
fled their country before 1995. Salvadorans and Guatemalans -- those fleeing
military regimes backed by the United States -- and also Haitians had to
personally document persecution, an often impossible requirement for individuals
fleeing with nothing but the shirts on their backs. As a result, some who
escaped death squads now face the threat of deportation.

Advocates of fairness shouldn't let the issue die. A double standard on asylum
mocks the nation's commitment to freedom from oppression.

As governor of Texas, George W. Bush reached out to Latino voters. As a
presidential candidate, he expressed an openness to immigration reforms. But
once in office, he will face opposition from the anti-immigration wing of his
party, led by fellow Texans Lamar Smith and Tom DeLay. Forcing
Republicansleaders to shift positions on immigration is a challenge that Bush
must overcome.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 30, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASYLUM SEEKERS FACE LACK OF LEGAL HELP ONE-THIRD OF APPLICANTS PRESENT CASE
WITHOUT AN ATTORNEY

BYLINE: FREDRIC N. TULSKY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1768 words


Thousands of times each year, foreign citizens seeking asylum in the United
States from persecution at home are left to go through asylum hearings without a
lawyer to help them. It can make a difficult process nearly impossible.

Though the decisions made by immigration judges may be matters of life or death,
one-third of asylum seekers end up presenting their case without one. The
difference in results: an analysis of Justice Department data shows that
applicants who manage to find a lawyer win asylum more than six times as often
as those who don't.

The problem is not that asylum seekers have no right to a lawyer. They do. But
that right is illusory for the thousands of asylum seekers who have neither the
money to hire a lawyer nor the luck to find a pro bono organization, or at least
law students, to help them prepare their case. Criminal suspects have a right to
a paid lawyer; asylum seekers have no such right.

Justice Department officials share concerns that lack of representation is a
major failing of the system.

"The system is built on the premise that we have an adversarial process," said
Paul W. Schmidt, chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals, which decides
administrative appeals of immigration judges' rulings. "But it is hard to have
an adversary system if you don't have good advocacy."

In a separate interview, Chief Immigration Judge Michael J. Creppy said: "We
certainly have a problem with the quality of representation."

According to Justice Department statistics analyzed by the Georgetown University
Institute for the Study of International Migration, 37 percent of asylum seekers
who found a lawyer to represent them won their cases. Of those who did not have
a lawyer, only 6 percent won asylum.

"It is a matter of tremendous concern," said Andrew I. Schoenholtz, director of
law and policy studies at the Georgetown institute. "We have a substantially
complex legal process. It is almost impossible that those not represented could
understand the system well. And that can almost determine whether or not they
are granted asylum."

Nor do those figures tell the full story: Many asylum seekers end up with
incompetent or unscrupulous lawyers who fail to provide adequaterepresentation.

"It is troublesome," said Schmidt, the appeals board chairman. "We are seeing
people who clearly are not properly prepared."

Schmidt, who handled asylum cases pro bono when he worked in a private practice
in Washington, said that properly preparing a case can take three weeks.

"They clearly are difficult cases," he said. "Often the asylum seeker speaks a
language the attorney doesn't understand. It can take time to get the asylum
seeker, and his friends and relatives, to open up. You need to research the
country conditions. These aren't things done in an afternoon."

A Mercury News review found cases that languished for years before officials
awarded new hearings to asylum seekers whose original lawyers never bothered to
talk to them before the day of trial, or to take steps to gather documents to
support their claim.

The Justice Department statistics divide asylum cases into two groups -- those
brought "affirmatively" by people who entered the United States legally, and
those brought "defensively" by people whom the government is trying to deport or
who arrived at airports without valid travel documents.

The Georgetown analysis shows that asylum seekers from some countries have an
easier time finding lawyers than those from other countries. Yugoslav applicants
were represented in 98 percent of the asylum hearings in the fiscal year that
ended Sept. 30, 1999, and 95 percent of the time in defensive proceedings.

But only 17 percent of Vietnamese asylum seekers who brought affirmative asylum
cases were represented, and only 57 percent of Vietnamese were represented in
defensive proceedings.

Finding a lawyer is also more difficult in some cities. In New York, seven of
every eight asylum seekers bringing affirmative cases were represented before
immigration judges in fiscal 1999. But in Los Angeles, only half were
represented, and in Atlanta, fewer than one in four.

Asking for aid
Groups encourage
pro bono help

One critical difference is the extent of a region's pro bono programs. In New
York, the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights has worked for 20 years to pair
asylum seekers with lawyers who are willing to take on pro bono cases. Several
other religious and social service organizations have staff lawyers who handle
asylum cases.

The American Bar Association, public interest organizations and the Justice
Department all have taken steps to encourage more lawyers to handle some cases
on a pro bono basis. The Executive Office of Immigration Review, the agency that
includes both the immigration judges and the Board of Immigration Appeals, has
added a full-time pro bono coordinator.

The Georgetown analysis shows that about 30 percent of asylum seekers who were
held in custody by the Immigration and Naturalization Service at the time of
their hearings had no lawyer to represent them. Their problems are accentuated
when the INS, strapped for bed space, locks them in remote jails far from any
pro bono programs.

Seventy miles northeast of downtown Los Angeles, over the mountains and into the
desert valley of northeast Los Angeles County, about 200 asylum seekers are
among 700 INS detainees held in the Mira Loma jail in Lancaster.

Each week, Sister Charlotte Wagner, a detention project lawyer for the Los
Angeles office of the Central American Resource Center, travels to the jail to
make presentations to new detainees about their rights.

Such presentations -- modeled after a program in Arizona -- are spreading
throughout the country, with the encouragement of the INS and the American Bar
Association.

But in an interview, Wagner said beyond discussing their rights with detainees,
she is currently unable to take on asylum cases in Lancaster. Nor is any other
pro bono organization taking on Lancaster asylum cases. The detainees, who
include asylum seekers from such violence-ravaged countries as Sudan and
Somalia, must find the money to hire someone, or are left on their own.

Algerian's appeal
Asylum granted
after long process

In late November 1999, an Algerian agricultural engineer named Abdel Khouas,
then 30, appeared without a lawyer for his asylum hearing before Immigration
Judge Michael Suarez. Khouas had been held in the Mira Loma jail in Lancaster
since he arrived at the Los Angeles airport two months earlier.

Suarez began by quickly asking Khouas about the fact that he was unrepresented:
Had he tried to call the advocates on a list the INS provides detainees, who may
be willing to offer representation?

Khouas said he had called several. "They're asking for money," he said. "I
contacted the majority of them, but they asked me for money, and I cannot give
them any money because I don't have any money."

That was as much as the government could do. "You've done as good as you could,"
Suarez told the asylum seeker. "If the people on the legal aid list are not
willing to help you, then there's nothing more, really, that can be done, and
we'll begin now, sir."

Khouas told the immigration judge that he had fled Algeria rather than be
drafted into the military. He said he had repeatedly seen people killed without
explanation on the streets by the military; if he was sent back, he would be
killed, he said.

A transcript of the hearing shows that Suarez repeatedly expressed frustration
as he tried to learn from Khouas whether he had any evidence that people were
killed for refusing to join the military.

"Your problem is that you're not focusing on my question and answering my
question, and it will go a lot smoother if you'll just do that," the judge
advised him at one point.

At the end, Suarez denied asylum. He said that he believed Khouas, and
acknowledged that the army engaged in human rights violations, but he ruled that
Khouas had not proved such abuses occurred against draft resisters.

Khouas begged the judge that if he was sent back, "I know very well they're
going to kill me after torture. So please, I plead with you, kill me first
because they're not going to kill me fast. They're going to torture me, torture
me, and I rather, I rather death by shotgun than a death by torture."

After losing the case, Khouas filed a form preserving his appeal, saying: "I am
new in this country. I did not know all my rights and procedures to seek asylum
in the United States. I was not given a fair opportunity by the INS judge to
present my case properly."

That argument did not impress Jeffrey D. Clark, INS assistant district counsel,
who urged the appeals board to reject Khouas' appeal: "It is obvious that the
natural results of self-representation are going to include pre-hearing
preparation, evidentiary mistakes and absence of effective case strategies.

"The respondent in this case has made his own bed, and now cries foul because he
did a poor job of it. The board should not be swayed in the least bit by such an
argument."

Khouas, still trying to find a lawyer to help him, contacted the Catholic Legal
Immigration Clinic office in Los Angeles. Managing attorney Alicia Trishe became
intrigued by his case.

While the office has no way to represent asylum seekers at hearings in
Lancaster, Trishe said recently, she decided to take on Khouas' case, since
handling an appeal does not require the personal visits that are needed to
prepare adequately for hearings.

While he waited, Khouas was transferred by the INS to an even more remote
facility, in Bakersfield, where he remained for two months. In a decision dated
Aug. 31, the appeals board ruled that being forced to engage in human rights
abuses was in itself a valid basis for asylum; the board granted Trishe's appeal
and awarded Khouas asylum.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
THE DIFFERENCE HAVING A LAWYER MAKES
Justice Department statistics show that asylum seekers who are represented by
lawyers are granted asylum much more often than those who don't have lawyers.
Many asylum seekers cannot afford a private lawyer, and outside of the country's

 largest cities there is often a shortage of qualified lawyers who are willing
to volunteer their time or work pro bono.  The problem is most severe for
applicants who are being detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in jails in remote areas.
[See microfilm for chart]

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHAT THE SERIES HAS REPORTED
Previous articles on the United States asylum system reported how U.S. policy in
the 1990s was toughened at the expense of some of the most vulnerable people in
the world, in part because of concern that illegal immigrants and even
terrorists were taking advantage of the asylum process to gain improper entry.
The result of tougher laws, enforced by immigration officers whose job is to
keep out foreigners without legal papers, has been to put victims of persecution
at risk of being sent back to countries where they face potential torture or
death, or to jail them for months or years before their claims are fully heard.
In addition, an analysis of 176,465 asylum cases found such extraordinary
disparities from one immigration judge to the next that a key factor in an
asylum seeker's success or failure is which judge hears the case.
Some judges almost never grant asylum, even when the applicant is from a country
so war-torn that immigration judges, altogether, grant asylum to most refugees
from there.
In some of the most extreme cases, Tamil refugees from Sri Lanka stopping at
U.S. airports on their way to the growing Tamil community in Canada have been
detained because of improper papers and held for years under threat of
deportation, even though Canada would provide refuge for many of the Sri
Lankans.UNCERTAIN REFUGE: A MERCURY NEWS SPECIAL REPORT
RELATED STORY: Page 14A

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: FREDRIC N. TULSKY -- MERCURY NEWS
The Mira Loma jail's rural location in Lancaster -- 70 miles northeast of
downtown Los Angeles, over the mountains and into the desert valley of northeast
Los Angeles County -- makes it difficult for asylum seekers to obtain
representation.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 11, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OLYMPIC FAMILY MEMBERS OVERSTAY VISAS IN AUSTRALIA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia


About 100 Olympic family members who have overstayed their visas and remained
illegally in Australia after the Sydney Games still appear reluctant to leave.

An Immigration Department spokesman said Wednesday that the 100 have ignored
warnings to get out.

Immigration authorities late last week told Olympic overstayers, including
coaches, officials and journalists, that they were breaking the law by staying
on after their visas ran out and were liable to be deported. But none has come
forward.

"There's been no change, they are still here," the spokesman told Reuters.

The Immigration Department says 79 people who came in on Olympic Games visas had
failed to leave when those special visas ran out on Nov. 1, and another 29
linked to the Paralympic Games had done the same.

Most of the overstayers came from the United States, but there were also a
handful from Britain, Spain, Germany, Russia, Nigeria, Uzbekistan, Cuba and
Gabon, among others.

Officials say few of them were athletes.

Officials add that the number breaking immigration laws was actually quite low
considering 38,000 visas were issued for the Olympic Games.

* Hossam Hassam broke Lothar Matthaus' world record, making his 151st
international soccer appearance Tuesday night as Egypt beat Zambia 3-1 in an
exhibition game in Cairo, Egypt.

Hassan is a midfielder who made his international debut in 1985 against Norway.

He was hoisted on the shoulders of his teammates before the start of the game.

Matthaus played his 150th game for Germany at last summer's European
Championship, then retired from international soccer.

Egypt got two goals from Abdel-Sattar Sabry and one from Muhammad Farouk, the
last off a pass from Hassan.

Moses Sichone scored for Zambia.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WORLD VIEW

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 18, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHO GETS CITIZENSHIP? IT'S REASONABLE THAT FATHERS MUST PROVE PATERNITY AND
PLEDGE SUPPORT FOR THEIR FOREIGN-BORN OUT-OF-WEDLOCK CHILDREN

BYLINE: TRAVIS ARMSTRONG column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 544 words


LAW school professors have a knee-jerk tendency to criticize any rule on how
this nation confers citizenship on the foreign-born. "Give every person who
wants one a passport with an eagle on the cover" would be their approach.
Students of immigration law have to resist constant attempts to indoctrinate
them into this mindset.

At least that's how it went when I studied at the UCLA School of Law. There and
at other liberal-leaning institutions, professors have educated legions of
attorneys to use the legal system to soften citizenship and immigration
requirements.

One of the first U.S. Supreme Court cases we read involved the sensible
requirements American fathers must satisfy to gain citizenship for their
children born abroad and out-of-wedlock. We were supposed to be outraged that
immigration advocates lost their attempt to have those rules erased.

Just wait, we were told, until a case with "better" facts came along to
challenge the law. Immigration lawyers think they've found one. Last week they
were back before the justices with another try.

They should lose again.

According to federal law, unmarried American fathers must prove paternity before
their children turn 18 to guarantee them U.S. citizenship. They also must pledge
financial support.

It's hardly unreasonable for the government to write laws that encourage fathers
to take responsibility for their out-of-wedlock children. But some see a problem
because American mothers don't have to meet those requirements. Their children
usually get U.S. citizenship at birth.

Litigants in the latest Supreme Court case, Nguyen and Boulais v. Immigration
and Naturalization Service, argue this difference violates the equal protection
component of the Fifth Amendment. The rules supposedly are too broad and based
on stereotypes of wayward fathers.

The court should tell the litigants they're wrong because specific standards for
fathers, but not mothers, make good policy and legal sense. This is not
discrimination.

Fathers should have to show a parent-child relationship equivalent to the legal
bond that birth automatically establishes between a mother and child. A pledge
to support children isn't a necessary requirement for mothers. They usually have
custody at birth and are responsible for upbringing. Congress recognized that in
crafting the law.

In 1958, when Earl Warren was chief justice, he called citizenship "nothing less
than the right to have rights." Five years later the Supreme Court wrote that
American citizenship is "one of the most valuable rights in the world." That
appraisal still holds today.

Congress, not the courts, historically has made rules for when the foreign-born
may become U.S. citizens. Those lawmakers have proven dependable guardians in
deciding how this country grants that precious status to people born overseas.
They've had that broad constitutional authority for two centuries.

The court's deference to Congress on nationality questions should continue. The
case before the justices certainly doesn't provide a good enough reason to
change. The relationship between an unmarried mother and her child is different
from that of a father in the same situation. Citizenship laws that recognize
this are fair and logical.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Travis Armstrong is a Mercury News editorial writer.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 18, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FLOOD CENTERS WITH INQUIRIES COALITION OF AGENCIES SETS WORKSHOP
SERIES ON NEW LAWS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 402 words


Overwhelmed with thousands of phone calls by local residents wanting to know
more about new immigration laws, a coalition of non-profit legal centers tonight
will hold the first of several public workshops in San Jose to explain the
regulations.

The 7 p.m. workshop will be at the Mexican Heritage Plaza theater.

Telephones of immigration attorneys and legal centers have been ringing non-stop
for nearly a month, since President Clinton signed legislation that allows
certain undocumented immigrants to apply for legal residency, the first step
toward citizenship.

Not all callers have been able to reach lawyers. And many of the immigrants who
get through mistakenly believe they qualify for residency when they don't.

Legal service providers at a news conference Wednesday said they hope the
workshops will clear up misunderstandings about the laws and also encourage
those eligible to apply.

"We've received hundreds of phone calls -- sometimes 400 to 500 a day," said
Cindy Carla Avitia, a paralegal at the East San Jose Community LawCenter. "These
large-scale workshops are to give them good information."

The law prompting the phone calls is the restoration of a regulation known as
Section 245 (i), which Congress agreed to re-enact temporarily, for a four-month
period.

It provides relief for certain undocumented immigrants by allowing them to apply
for legal residency without leaving the country -- but only if they have a
qualifying close family member or employer to sponsor them.

Section 245 (i), which was in effect for years, was eliminated in 1997 as part
of a sweeping immigration reform.

Without the law, illegal immigrants wanting to change their status -- such as
those who married U.S. citizens -- were ordered to leave the country for at
least three years.

To take advantage of the change, immigrants need to apply to revise their status
by April 30.

The organizations taking part in the informational workshops are: East San Jose
Community Law Center, Asian Law Alliance, Catholic Charities Immigration Legal
Services, Mexican Heritage Corp. and Services, and Immigrant Rights and
Education Network.

In addition to tonight's workshop, others will be scheduled over the next three
months.

Those who attend a workshop, and who qualify for residency, will be invited to
return to meet with attorneys who will help with filling out immigration
applications.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WORKSHOPS
What: One-hour session to explain new immigration laws.
When: 7 p.m. today.
Where: Mexican Heritage Plaza theater, 1700 Alum Rock Ave., San Jose.
Cost: Free.
Next session: 7 p.m. Wednesday.
For information call: (408) 254-0444.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 26, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CALL FOR AMNESTY RENEWED BAY AREA GROUPS TO RALLY SATURDAY FOR IMMIGRATION-LAW
REFORM AFTER LAST YEAR'S DEFEAT OF A SWEEPING AMNESTY PROPOSAL, THE CAMPAIGN
FACES STIFFER POLITICAL OPPOSITION THIS YEAR.

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 806 words


As Congress settles into its new session in Washington, immigrant-rights groups
around the Bay Area and across the nation are resuming an ambitious campaign to
promote amnesty for the undocumented.

Their efforts last year ended in a bittersweet victory when federal laws were
modified in December to help only a limited number of illegal immigrants. This
year's efforts will prove even more difficult, organizers say, because of a
Republican administration in the White House and strong opposition from
immigration-control groups.

Still, the pro-immigrant groups are not deterred. Hundreds of immigration
advocates are expected to attend a march and rally in Oakland on Saturday to
call attention to amnesty and other proposals organizers say are needed to
improve the lives of immigrants.

"We have to end the hypocrisy facing immigrants in the United States," said
Agustin Ramirez, a member of the Labor Immigrant Organizing Network, the
Oakland-based coalition behind the march.

"We contribute to this society as immigrants, yet millions of us are denied our
most basic rights as human beings," Ramirez said. "We need amnesty and
immigration-law reform . . . our community demands it."

Immigration-control groups and many Republicans in Congress oppose amnesty
because, they say, it rewards lawbreakers and encourages subsequent immigration.

"However many people we grant amnesty to, there will be an exponential number of
relatives who will come here to apply after them," said Ira Mehlman, West Coast
spokesman for the Washington, D.C.-based Federation for American Immigration
Reform.

There are an estimated 7 million illegal immigrants in the United States,
Mehlman said.

The march, similar to one in San Jose last April that attracted about 500
people, begins at 11 a.m. at St. Elizabeth's Catholic Church and ends with a
rally at Carmen Flores Park on Fruitvale Avenue.

Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., state Attorney General Bill Lockyer and other
politicians are expected to attend, said Isobel White of the organizing
coalition, which includes labor groups, religious leaders and non-profit
community organizations.

Coalition leaders say amnesty is needed to improve the human rights of a
population that works and lives largely underground, yet helps the local and
national economy.

"The House of Representatives needs to recognize the contributions that the
immigrant community provides in the United States," said Edwin Rodriguez of San
Francisco's Northern California Coalition for Immigrant Rights. "Andthe
representatives need to provide an opportunity for people to live without the
fear of being arrested or deported."

March organizers also are calling for a repeal of sanctions on employers who
hire illegal workers, better protection for undocumented employees who organize,
an end to contract-labor programs, and the elimination of processing backlogs at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Immigrant-rights groups, including labor organizations such as the AFL-CIO,
unsuccessfully lobbied Congress last year to legalize the status of the
undocumented who have been in the United States since 1986 -- the year of the
last general amnesty legislation, when nearly 3 million people became permanent
residents.

Late last year, an amnesty proposal was attached to a measure to increase the
annual allotment of H-1B visas for skilled workers, raising the hopes of illegal
immigrants that Congress was listening to their needs. The H-1B bill passed
without the amnesty provision.

A sweeping amnesty proposal was then tacked on to an appropriations bill, but
was later dropped.

The legislation eventually passed by Congress and signed in December by
President Clinton temporarily eases regulations for some illegal immigrants.

It provides relief by allowing certain illegal immigrants to apply for permanent
residency through April 30, by suspending a requirement that they leave the
country for at least three years before returning to initiate the paperwork. The
new law, which restores a provision known as Section 245(i), affects only those
with a qualifying family member or employer to sponsor them.

Pro-immigrant groups acknowledge they will face more political opposition than
they did last year in their attempts for amnesty legislation.

"I'm not being too naive, it will be an uphill battle," said Leon Chow, a labor
organizer and chairman of the San Francisco Chinese Progressive Association. He
remains hopeful -- encouraged by the momentum of grass-roots groups.

Saturday's march alone may not do much to advance the amnesty agenda into the
House and Senate any time soon, said Rodriguez of the Northern California
Coalition for Immigrant Rights.

"It may take a long time, but the important thing is that we continue the work
that we've started," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMNESTY MARCH
WHAT: March and rally to push for amnesty legislation in Congress.
WHEN: Saturday. March starts at 11 a.m., rally at 12:30 p.m.
WHERE: March begins at St. Elizabeth's Catholic Church, 1500 34th Ave., Oakland;
rally at Carmen Flores Park on Fruitvale Avenue.
CONTACT: Labor Immigrant Organizing Network at (510) 643-2355.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 14, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FUTURE UNCLEAR FOR ASIAN WOMEN SOLD INTO INTERNATIONAL SEX RING NEW U.S. LAW MAY
ASSIST ALLEGED PROSTITUTES ARRESTED IN BUST OF BAY AREA BROTHELS

BYLINE: HOWARD MINTZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 958 words


As defendants in a major international prostitution ring continue to appear in
San Francisco federal court this week, dozens of young Asian women sold into
sexual servitude remain in legal limbo in the custody of federal immigration
officials.

The fate of the women is unclear, but they could be the first captives of an
international sex slave ring to benefit from a new federal law enacted last year
to help victims of the booming global sex trade.

In addition to the 19 people named in sweeping federal indictments, there are
now 27 alleged prostitutes in Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
centers who were believed to be working at brothels throughout the Bay Area,
according to immigration officials.

Under pressure from human rights organizations worried about the influx of women
from other countries forced to work in U.S. brothels, Congress adopted the
Victims of Trafficking and Violent Crime Protection Act to combat the
international sex trade. The law, as yet untested, provides ways for victims of
sex trafficking to obtain special visas to remain in the United States.

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the INS in San Francisco, said she could not
speculate on how many of the alleged prostitutes might be eligible for the new
visas. The women rounded up in recent raids on Bay Area brothels -- from San
Jose to Oakland to Daly City -- were all from Asian countries, including
Malaysia, China, Thailand and Korea.

In the past, experts on human smuggling say, such women would usually be
deported, unaware of their U.S. legal rights and in many instances thrown back
into an international cycle of sex slavery that brought them here in the first
place. The San Francisco-based Asian Law Caucus is attempting to help the women
caught in the federal investigation, hoping to invoke the new law, but officials
there have had trouble contacting them.

"We've been getting the runaround but we can't do anything because we're not
their attorneys," said Ivy Lee, a staff attorney with the Asian Law Caucus.

Hae Jung Cho, director of the Los Angeles-based Coalition to Abolish Slavery &
Trafficking, added that efforts should be made to get the women out of detention
centers and into services, shielded at all times from anyone with links to
smuggling rings.

"Often times these women just get deported, which shouldn't happen when violent
crimes have been committed against you in this country," Cho said. "But there
are a lot of tricky issues in these cases."

Federal prosecutors say the women were sold in an international network of human
smugglers who put them to work in as many as 20 U.S. cities, from San Francisco
to New York.

In federal law enforcement's most ambitious attempt to crack the Bay Area sex
slave trade, indictments unsealed this week alleged that the defendants bought
and sold young Asian women, primarily through a mother and daughter in the Los
Angeles area. One of the Los Angeles traffickers is in custody, but another
remains a fugitive, according to law enforcement officials.

The indictment also names Bak To Lo, the alleged Malaysia-based international
supplier of the women. Lo is now considered an international fugitive, but it is
considered doubtful he will be brought to the United States to face the charges.

From such far-flung destinations, the prostitutes shipped to the Bay Area worked
in brothels in San Jose, Fremont, Milpitas, Daly City, Oakland, San Leandro and
in a health spa in Newark.

According to hundreds of pages of affidavits filed by federal agents, the ring
was made up of a loose confederation of brothels connected to operators across
the United States. In the course of a two-year undercover investigation dubbed
"Operation Night Crawler," agents bugged telephones and spied on reputed
brothels, determining that the ring members worked together harboring
prostitutes, referring clients and trying to stay one step ahead of police.

The lead defendant in the indictments is Huan Thui Ly, who had a hand inrunning
several South Bay brothels, federal prosecutors allege. Ly was the boyfriend of
a San Jose madam arrested in 1997, when U.S. and Canadian authorities
collaborated in the bust of a similar international sex slave ring.

At the time of the 1997 bust, Ly denied involvement in the San Jose brothel, run
by his then-girlfriend Theresa Ha Garcia, later convicted and sentenced to three
years in prison. That 1997 crackdown did not deter Ly or his confederates from
setting up brothels throughout the region that typically kept the prostitutes
working constantly, court papers allege.

But the investigation makes it clear that Ly was one of many ring members making
money off the prostitutes: The probe turned up as many as a dozen brothels
operating at any given time, usually charging clients $140 an hour and run by a
variety of the defendants.

The affidavits show that the women typically paid brothel owners like Ly a large
share of their earnings, apparently to pay off debts to the smugglers who got
them into the United States. Experts say indentured servitude, often in the form
of prostitution, is the price these women pay to get into the United States.

A CIA report last year estimated that as many as 50,000 women and children from
Asia, Latin America and Europe are brought into the United States each year and
forced into prostitution. Because most of the women cannot afford to pay the
typical $40,000 fee to smugglers, they must work it off when they get to U.S.
cities -- and that often lands them in prostitution networks.

In fact, according to affidavits, during this weekend's raids, one prostitute
told federal agents at the Newark health spa that she was paying off a $40,000
debt.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 20, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMNESTY RUMORS RAMPANT AS NEW LAW CONFUSES MANY IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 499 words

DATELINE: OCEANSIDE


On a Friday evening, more than 200 people wait patiently inside a church for a
Mexican government lawyer.

Most are illegal immigrants or related to someone who is, and they're eager to
learn details of a complex new immigration law that is a constant topic of
discussion and rumor in ethnic communities.

"We came because people say there's going to be an amnesty," said Sergio
Magallon, 25, a laborer from Jalisco state. "But apparently, that's nottrue."

Indeed, it is not.

Yet from coast to coast, there has been confusion in the immigrant communities
about the new law, exacerbated by advertisements in the ethnic press that
trumpet, in boldface type, "Immigration amnesty alert!!" or "This could be your
last chance!"

Consulate lawyer Barbara Strickland said the Legal Immigration and Family Equity
Act eases the process of getting a visa but doesn't create a broad amnesty like
the one in 1986.

"We're disappointing a lot of people," Strickland said after her presentation,
one of about a dozen she's given in recent weeks.

Most everyone who has run a forum reports huge crowds and widespread
misinformation.

At the Southside Community Mission in Brooklyn, for example, 1,000 people showed
up at 9 a.m. for an 11:30 a.m. meeting. At a subsequent meeting, the organizer
set up 30 folding chairs, had to add 20 more and let the 25 latecomers stand.
But of the 75 immigrants who came, only three had qualifying family members.

The Immigration and Naturalization Services estimates that about 1 million
people will use the law. The number eligible is unknown. The nation has 7
million to 10 million illegal immigrants.

Its main provision allows certain people who entered the country illegally or
have an expired visa to apply for legal residency without leaving the United
States; previously, they would have to return to their home country and wait for
a year or more. But they must pay a $1,000 penalty and have a qualified relative
or employer file an application on their behalf by April 30.

Another part of the law allows more than 200,000 illegal immigrants to apply for
legal residency, but only if they were part of three class-action lawsuits filed
on behalf of people denied amnesty in 1986.

Because of confusion about the law, community groups from the Asian Pacific
American Legal Center to the Guatemalan Unity Information Agency, both in Los
Angeles, have been holding informational meetings to help people determine if
they can benefit. And Los Angeles County set up a hotline in 10 languages.

One concern is that immigration consultants or lawyers will exploit the
confusion.

The San Diego County District Attorney's office already has charged the operator
of one business with grand theft and forgery, alleging the firm processed
applications for immigrants who did not qualify.

Strickland said one family paid $7,000 for a fraudulent application.

"These people are really desperate to have some sort of legal status," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
Go to Web site (www.ins.usdoj.gov).

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 20, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ABA APPROVES RESOLUTIONS ON IMMIGRATION, DISCIPLINE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: CALIFORNIA


Leaders of the American Bar Association voted Monday to recommend ending "zero
tolerance" school discipline policies and stopping the government's use of
secret evidence in most immigration cases.

The zero tolerance policies -- which can mandate expulsion or referral to
juvenile or criminal court -- are unfair and inappropriate for many children,
advocates said.

They also recommended changes to a law that has made it far easier for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to use secret evidence against
non-citizens. The INS typically has done so in cases of suspected terrorism,
citing the potential damage to national security if the evidence became public.

A report accompanying the recommendation cites the case of a Palestinian
academic jailed for three years in Florida without trial. He was released in
December without ever seeing the evidence behind the government's allegation
that he was a front for Islamic terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 6, 2001 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

REDDY KIN PLEAD GUILTY SENTENCING IN JULY FOR COUPLE OVER IMMIGRATION FRAUD

BYLINE: THE MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 292 words


The youngest brother and sister-in-law of Berkeley landlord Lakireddy Bali Reddy
-- who is accused of bringing Indian girls into the country for sex and cheap
labor -- pleaded guilty Monday to immigration fraud as part of plea agreements
with federal prosecutors.

Jayaprakash Lakireddy, 47, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit
immigration fraud. Prosecutors say he employed at his construction company at
least six Indian nationals who were in the country illegally.

Annapurna Lakireddy, 46, also pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
commit immigration fraud. Prosecutors say she signed visa applications and
letters of support for people who she claimed were her relatives, knowing that
they were not.

Sentencing for the couple will be in July. They could not be reached for
comment.

Lakireddy Bali Reddy is to appear in court Wednesday before U.S. District Judge
Saundra Armstrong. He faces a number of charges, including two counts of
transporting a minor in foreign commerce for illegal sexual activity.

Prosecutors contend Reddy and his relatives brought over Indian nationals from
his home village in the state of Andhra Pradesh, a crucial region for the
immigration of high-tech Indian workers to Silicon Valley.

The Reddy family allegedly picked up the young workers at the airport and took
them to many apartment buildings, construction sites and restaurants they owned
and managed, including the Pasand restaurants in the East Bay and South Bay. The
young immigrants worked for less than minimum wage.

The case was first uncovered in the fall of 1999, when two teenage girls
believed to be brought from India by Reddy were exposed to carbon monoxide fumes
in one of Reddy's Berkeley apartments.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Reddy

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               April 10, 2001 Tuesday SANTA CRUZ/MONTEREY EDITION

CLERK REPORTS 233 PERCENT JUMP IN MARRIAGE LICENSES

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA COUNTY


The Santa Clara County clerk's office has registered a 233 percent increase in
the number of marriage licenses issued in the first three months of 2001,
compared with last year.

It appears to be more than spring romance. A relatively new provision of a
Clinton administration immigration law expires April 30.

Before the law was signed, immigrants had to return to their countries to apply
for a visa and could be banned from entering the country for up to 10 years. But
the Legal Immigration Family Equity Act allows undocumented immigrants to remain
in the country if they pay $1,000 -- and they are awaiting an adjustment in
their immigration status. Marriage adjusts the status.

The deadline also has doubled the traffic at immigration offices in San
Francisco and San Jose.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area Briefing

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
People waiting at San Jose immigration offices are told to return to the next
day. Changes in laws have sparked a surge of people needing immigration services
and obtaining marriage licenses.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 27, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ZIGLAR IS LEADING CANDIDATE FOR INS POST

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 96 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


James W. Ziglar, the Senate's sergeant-at-arms, is the leading candidate to
become the next commissioner of immigration and naturalization, Republican aides
said.

Ziglar, 55, a native of Mississippi and boyhood friend of Senate Majority Leader
Trent Lott, would, if nominated and confirmed, assume control over one of the
government's fastest-growing and most troubled agencies. A top priority for a
new commissioner would be fulfilling Bush's pledge to split the INS into two
agencies, one to enforce immigration laws, and the other to provide services to
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
In Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 1, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH'S NOMINATION FOR INS CHIEF MEETS SKEPTICISM LACK OF EXPERIENCE IN AGENCY A
CONCERN

BYLINE: FRANK DAVIES, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration's choice to supervise the overhaul of the nation's
immigration agency is the U.S. Senate sergeant-at-arms, known for his fairness
and managerial experience.

But he has no background in immigration issues.

Activists on all sides of immigration policy reacted with concern Monday to the
nomination of James Ziglar, 55, to be the next commissioner of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Ziglar, 55, a close boyhood friend of Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott of
Mississippi, has served since 1998 as the Senate's chief administrator,
supervising a staff of more than 750 with an annual budget of $120 million.

A Washington lawyer in the 1970s, Ziglar jumped into the financial services
industry in the 1980s, and served as managing director of Paine Webber, now UBS
PaineWebber, in New York for eight years. He also served a brief stint as an
assistant Interior secretary, overseeing the Bureau of Mines and U.S. Geological
Survey.

"Jim Ziglar is an experienced manager who will work diligently to reform the
INS," said President Bush in a statement announcing the nomination late Friday.
"His history of overseeing large organizations and tackling management
challenges makes Jim an excellent choice."

But Ziglar's nomination, which will require Senate confirmation, ran into
skepticism from immigration lawyers and activists.

"I don't think you'd put someone in charge of the IRS who doesn't know tax law,
or someone to head the SEC who doesn't know securities law," said Jeanne
Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

A spokesman for another group that wants to crack down on illegal immigration
and beef up enforcement said he was "concerned by Ziglar's lack of experience.

"We're looking for a manager who can hit the ground running," said David Ray,
associate director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
"Immigration is out of control and this agency is in crisis. We just hope he has
the management experience to do the job."

Bush has said he wants to revamp the INS and divide it into two separate
agencies -- one for enforcement, concentrating on illegal immigration, the other
for service, working with legal immigrants. Last week, Attorney General John
Ashcroft said restructuring the INS was "a great priority."

Ziglar is well known and respected in the Senate. As sergeant-at-arms, he set up
some of the procedures and rules for the impeachment trial of President Clinton
in 1999 and won praise from Democratic senators for his even-handedness.

Two Democrats, Patrick Leahy and Paul Wellstone, lauded Ziglar's work. So far,
Democrats most involved in immigration issues -- Bob Graham of Florida, Ted
Kennedy of Massachusetts and Dianne Feinstein of California -- have issued no
statements on Ziglar's nomination, which will go through the Judiciary
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JAMES ZIGLAR
A quick look at the Bush administration's pick to be commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.
* Has served as the U.S. Senate sergeant-at-arms since 1998.
* Was a Washington lawyer in the 1970s, then jumped into the financial services
industry in the 1980s.
* Was managing director of PaineWebber, now UBS PaineWebber, in New York for
eight years.
* Served a brief stint as an assistant interior secretary, overseeing the Bureau
of Mines and U.S. Geological Survey.
* Is a close boyhood friend of Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 4, 2001 Friday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

IMMIGRATION FRAUD ADMITTED LANDLORD'S ACCOMPLICE: HE POSED AS FATHER OF TWO
GIRLS, HUSBAND OF HIS SISTER IN PLAN TO BRING THEM ILLEGALLY INTO UNITED STATES.

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 309 words


An accomplice to a wealthy Berkeley landlord has pleaded guilty to posing as the
father of two girls and falsely claiming his sister as his wife in order to
bring the women into the country illegally, court records unsealed this week
show.

Venkateswara Vemireddy entered his plea with the U.S. Attorney's Office in
Oakland on May 30, 2000. His agreement was made public this week after the
Mercury News and the San Francisco Chronicle fought to unseal the documents.

Vemireddy has yet to be sentenced, but he could face a maximum of five years in
prison and a $250,000 fine.

In the agreement, Vemireddy said he brought over the three women on false visas
between March 1998 and Jan. 14, 2000, along with Lakireddy Bali Reddy, a wealthy
Berkeley landlord, and his son, Vijay Lakireddy.

Reddy, considered the ringleader of the immigration scheme, has pleaded guilty
to charges that he brought young girls from India for sex and cheap labor. He is
scheduled to be sentenced in July. The maximum penalty for Reddy's crimes is 38
years in prison.

But under a tentative plea agreement that must be approved by U.S. District
Court Judge Saundra Brown Armstrong, Reddy could spend a maximum of six and a
half years in prison and pay a restitution fee of $2 million to four girls from
poor families in India with whom he admitted having sex.

Reddy's two sons, Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy, have refused to plead guilty, and
were recently served with a 21-count indictment detailing 48 criminal acts,
including bringing illegal immigrants into the United States and importing them
for immoral purposes. The indictment lists six victims with whom the brothers
allegedly had sex against their will during a period from 1992 to 1999. The
counts carry a maximum penalty of five to 15 years, plus a potential $250,000
fine for each count.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 6, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS BUDGET GOES UP;
BACKLOG JUST AS LONG

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 101 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


People wait too long for decisions on citizenship, naturalization or other
immigration applications, despite more money and staff at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, a federal report says.

The INS agreed with most of the findings in the report, said Eyleen Schmidt,
agency press officer. The INS said it already is handling many of the problems.

INS' budget has nearly quadrupled since 1994 to $500 million, and its staff has
more than doubled to about 6,100. During the same time, the INS backlog on
applications increased nearly fourfold to about 3.9 million, the report said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 11, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REFUGEE ACCUSED OF KILLING INMATE IN VIETNAM CAMP U.S. INVESTIGATING INCIDENT
FROM 1979

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA


A Vietnamese refugee is under federal investigation amid allegations that he
killed a fellow inmate while serving as a trusty at a communist "re-education
camp."

The investigation, by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, is the
first of its kind involving alleged atrocities in the postwar camps.

Thi Dinh Bui, 60, of Orange Grove, is a former South Vietnamese army captain who
spent 1975 to 1981 in the Thanh Cam camp near Hanoi after the end of the Vietnam
War.

Another refugee, the Rev. Andrew Nguyen Huu Le, contends that Bui kicked him
unconscious. The Roman Catholic priest also said in a signed affidavit to
immigration officials that he saw Bui kill a man, a charge disputed by Bui as
well as a former army nurse who now lives in San Jose.

Some want Bui deported if the allegations are upheld, but his fate would be
unclear because the United States has no extradition treaty with Vietnam.

Bui, a father of nine, came to the United States in 1994 and now delivers
newspapers as an independent contractor for the Orange County Register. He
admits that he struck inmates but denied severely beating or killing anyone.

"The people I work with, how can I look at them in the face if I did? They know
that I am a good man."

Vincent An Van Mai, an ex-inmate at the camp who now lives in San Jose, said
camp guards -- not Bui -- were responsible for the death.

"I am not protecting Bui Dinh Thi," Mai said. "He is a man with both bad and
good traits."

Mai said Rev. Le, who travels the world as head of the
Washington-basedInternational Committee for Religious Freedom in Vietnam, is
pursuing Bui to raise his stature.

"I'm sure the real story is politics," Mai said.

"Before this, people didn't know Father Le. But now Vietnamese all over this
country, they know him well."

The priest contends that in 1979 he and four cellmates chipped a hole in the
wall and fled camp, but were caught the next morning. Bui kicked him until he
passed out, he said in the INS affidavit.

"Bui dragged me by my legs up the stairs to the solitary confinement room,
banging my head against the steps," the priest wrote. "He threw me into a room
and left me there; he thought I was dead. He then proceeded to beat Maj. Tiep
Van Dang to death. I personally witnessed this brutal murder."

Bui denies he hit anyone that day, saying he only picked up the men that the
camp guards had beaten.

Nine other former inmates told the Orange County Register that they saw Bui beat
prisoners but not kill anyone.

In 1996, Rev. Le wrote a memoir of his life in the camp that made the
accusations against Bui. The memoir was sent to the priest's friends and was
circulated to refugee activists as e-mail.

Last year, activist Thang Dinh Nguyen of Washington filed a complaint demanding
Bui's deportation on the grounds that he committed crimes against humanity.

The sister of the man Bui allegedly killed also wants him deported.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 23, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PILOT PROGRAM AIMS TO REDUCE MIGRANT DEATHS U.S., MEXICO AGREE ON IMMIGRATION
POLICY

BYLINE: MORRIS THOMPSON, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


U.S. Border Patrol agents will begin using less-lethal weapons, such as
rubber-coated bullets, in a pilot program near San Diego, according to a joint
declaration Friday by Mexican and U.S. officials.

Mexican Deputy Foreign Secretary Enrique Berruga said the move is part ofefforts
to reduce the number of deaths among Mexicans who try to enter the United States
illegally.

The agreement, which also was announced in Washington, is a result of talks on
immigration between the two governments that were launched when President Bush
visited Mexican President Vicente Fox's ranch in February. Border control has
been a major source of friction between the countries.

Berruga said the immigration talks continue and that a new, comprehensive
package of proposals should go to both countries' congresses this year.

Mexico's complaints

The tone of declarations by the United States and Mexico on immigration issues
has softened since the two presidents took office, Fox in December and Bush in
January. Friday's announcement brought the first concrete change in operations.

Mexico long has complained about what it calls human rights violations by U.S.
law enforcement officers against illegal Mexican migrants. From time to time,
actions by U.S. officers have resulted in shootings and deaths. A few of those
cases have resulted in disciplinary action against officers, but U.S.
authorities have brought no criminal charges.

Berruga said the pilot program would start immediately and would seek to deter
illegal migrants without killing them by using rubber-coated bullets, tear gas
and what he called "theatrical explosives."

He said the catalysts for the program were the dehydration deaths last month of
14 Mexicans in the Arizona desert after a smuggler abandoned them. The incident
highlighted the dangers Mexicans face in trying to enter the United States
illegally. Berruga said that as of Friday, 157 Mexicans have died trying to
cross into the United States so far this year, mostly from exposure or by
drowning. In all of 2000, there were 491 such deaths.

Social concerns

The San Diego project was the most concrete part of a communique issued Friday,
which stated general aims such as coordinating efforts to deal with border
security and giving priority to fighting criminal organizations and
immigrant-traffickers.

The United States also committed itself to reviewing its border-control
operations. They have been effective in reducing illegal immigration in certain
areas, but also have led undocumented migrants to try to enter the country in
remote and geographically inhospitable locations, where some have died.

Berruga hailed the action plan as addressing social concerns over and above law
enforcement considerations. He said parts of it focused on rescuing undocumented
migrants in distress.

"We aren't talking about arrests; the language is very different" from past U.S.
declarations on the issue, he said.

Berruga also confirmed that Mexico would step up efforts to control the flow
across its southern border of third-country illegal migrants, most of whom are
trying to reach the United States.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JOHN MOORE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Mexicans look toward the U.S. shore of the Rio Grande while scouting for Border
Patrol agents in May near Nuevo Laredo.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 3, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS EXTENDS LENGTH OF SOME WORK PERMITS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 79 words


Expiring work permits for Hondurans and Nicaraguans who are reapplying
fortemporary refuge in the United States will be good for five more months,
immigration officials said Monday.

Work permits that were due to expire Thursday now will be valid until Dec. 5,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

They have until Aug. 6 to renew their protective status, but many were going to
become ineligible to work while they waited for applications to be processed.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 6, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASYLUM SOUGHT FOR REFUGEES FROM WAR

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 115 words

DATELINE: GUATEMALA


Guatemalan President Alfonso Portillo urged President Bush on Thursday to
support legislation that would permit more Guatemalan refugees to remain in the
United States and reported afterward that Bush responded "very positively."

At a brief White House session that marked their first meeting, Portillo asked
Bush to back a push to give refugees from the long Guatemalan civil war
permission to remain in America.

Efforts to expand immigration law to give that right to foreign nationals from
Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Haiti died last year in Congress.

An administration official said Bush told Portillo that the immigration law was
"something we'll take a look at."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World In Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 28, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CASE OF WOMAN IN TRAILER SHOWS CULTURAL GAP FEAR, SHAME KEEP IMMIGRANTS FROM
SEEKING HELP, EXPERTS SAY

BYLINE: ANNE MARTINEZ, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 788 words


Desperate for help and consumed by fear, San Jose mother Maria Isabel Eugenio
thought she had no place to turn in caring for her 40-year-old mentally disabled
daughter, whose immigration status remains in limbo.

Eugenio's decision to lock her daughter inside a small wooden trailer while she
went to work rather than seek outside help from the many available services
reflects an all-too-common fear among immigrants unfamiliar with California's
healthcare system, local and state health experts said Friday.

In a state known for its anti-immigrant initiatives, one of the biggest
challenges is bridging the cultural, financial and language divide that prevents
many immigrants like Eugenio from getting the help they need.

FZ,1,0 "It's an uphill battle," said Stan Rosenstein, assistant deputy director
for medical services for the California Department of Health Services.

Californians who suffer from developmental disabilities like Eugenio's daughter
typically qualify for Medi-Cal, the state's insurance program for low-income
residents, regardless of immigration status, Rosenstein said. With that
insurance, Eugenio would have been able to seek out healthcare services from a
variety of county programs that offer everything from home visits to off-site
day care.

About 250,000 undocumented immigrants now are enrolled in Medi-Cal, Rosenstein
said. But millions of immigrants remain uninsured.

"Clinics and immigration attorneys are aware of the laws," he said, "but many
immigrants are not. It's a very major concern."

A three-year study by the Latino Coalition for a Healthy California last year
concluded that Latinas are the largest uninsured group among women in the state.
Only one-third of them, or just more than 1 million, have health insurance.

At the Gardner Health Center near downtown San Jose, employees receive at least
30 new referrals a week from low-income immigrants seeking any number of
healthcare services. Program Supervisor Ana Lilia DeLeon-Gonzalez said she sees
the fear in reluctant patients every day.

"Even cancer patients don't want to get services because they think they'll get
deported," she said.

Eugenio faces charges of abusing a dependent adult and false imprisonment, both
felonies. Her daughter is in a residential care facility. Although Eugenio said
she became a U.S. citizen three years ago, her daughter's petition for
citizenship is still pending.

For single working mothers like Eugenio, DeLeon-Gonzalez said the clinic would
try to ensure they know how to care for their developmentally disabled children
and deal with the stresses that come with balancing a full-time job with that
high-maintenance care.

San Jose mother Ofelia Martinez knows those stresses all too well. She sat for
an hour in the waiting room at the Gardner clinic Friday afternoon while her
26-year-old son, a diagnosed schizophrenic, chatted in a nearby room with a
support group of peers.

For three years, Martinez has driven her son, Oscar, to the center at least four
times a month for medical checkups and counseling services. The 65-year-old
retired office assistant said she doesn't know how she or her husband, a retired
janitor, could manage if they were working full time.

Martinez said prosecutors should consider Eugenio's circumstances before
deciding her punishment.

"I know what her problems are like. Having to take care of a sick child is a lot
of work," Martinez said. "I don't blame her because she didn't know what to do."

Refusing medical care is common among many immigrant groups, not just Latinos.
Immigrants often come from countries where similar services don't exist. Caring
for family members is not something they're accustomed to turning to a doctor
for, said Tessie Guillermo, executive director of the Asian and Pacific Islander
American Health Forum in San Francisco.

In the Asian community, Guillermo said, there's the added feeling of shame.

"Asian-Americans are particularly low users of mental health services because of
cultural attitudes that shun mental disabilities," she said. "Many still live in
their ethnic enclaves, and it becomes well known if they go to a neighborhood
health clinic."

At Oakland's La Clinica de la Raza, administrators try to instill a belief in
their patients that healthcare comes first, before concerns about cultural
appropriateness or immigration status. The medical records of all patients,
including undocumented immigrants, are confidential, said Victoria Samper,
associate director of the clinic.

"The fear of 187 hasn't gone away," she said, referring to the 1994 initiative
approved by California voters, but later repealed, that denied health-care
access to undocumented immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHOM TO CALL
Need mental-health services or know someone who does? Some helpful numbers:
or mental-health services for a family member or friend, call the Santa Clara
County office of the San Andreas Regional Center, whose staff of physicians,
nurses and psychologists completes assessments, determines eligibility and
refers clients to service providers: (408) 374-9960.
To report suspicions that a mentally disabled person is being mistreated,
neglected or abandoned, call Santa Clara County's Adult Protective Services:
(800) 414-2002.
For community-based services, call San Jose's Gardner Health Center: (408)
998-2264; Oakland's La Clinica de la Raza: (510) 535-4000; or San Francisco's
Asian and Pacific Islander American Health Forum: (415) 954-9988.
Mercury News

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no credit listed]
Maria Isabel Eugenio

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 28, 2001 Saturday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' CULTURAL GAP CASE OF WOMAN LOCKED IN TRAILER ILLUSTRATES HOW FEAR,
LANGUAGE AND UNFAMILIARITY WITH STATE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM KEEP MANY FROM SEEKING
HELP, ESPECIALLY FOR DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED.

BYLINE: ANNE MARTINEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 862 words


Desperate for help and consumed by fear, San Jose mother Maria Isabel Eugenio
thought she had no place to turn in caring for her 40-year-old mentally disabled
daughter whose immigration status remains in limbo.

Eugenio's decision to lock her daughter inside a small wooden trailer while she
went to work rather than seek outside help from the many available services
reflects an all-too-common fear among immigrants unfamiliar with California's
health care system, local and state health experts said Friday.

In a state known for its anti-immigrant initiatives, one of the biggest
challenges is bridging the cultural, financial and language divide that prevents
many immigrants like Eugenio from getting the help they need.

"It's an uphill battle," said Stan Rosenstein, assistant deputy director for
medical services for the California Department of Health Services.

Californians who suffer from developmental disabilities like Eugenio's daughter
typically qualify for Medi-Cal, the state's insurance program for low-income
residents, regardless of immigration status, Rosenstein said. With that
insurance, Eugenio would have been able to seek out health care services from a
variety of county programs that offer everything from home visits to off-site
day care.

About 250,000 undocumented immigrants now are enrolled in Medi-Cal, Rosenstein
said. But millions of immigrants remain uninsured.

"Clinics and immigration attorneys are aware of the laws," he said, "but many
immigrants are not. It's a very major concern."

A three-year study by the Latino Coalition for a Healthy California last year
concluded that Latinas are the largest uninsured group among women in the state.
Only one-third of them, or just more than 1 million, have health insurance.

At the Gardner Health Center near downtown San Jose, employees receive at least
30 new referrals a week from low-income immigrants seeking any number of health
care services. Program Supervisor Ana Lilia DeLeon-Gonzalez said she sees the
fear in reluctant patients every day.

"Even cancer patients don't want to get services because they FZ,1,0 think
they'll get deported," she said. "There's a lot of resources in the county that
people don't know about."

Although Eugenio said she became a U.S. citizen three years ago, her daughter's
petition for citizenship is still pending.

For single working mothers like Eugenio, DeLeon-Gonzalez said the clinic would
try to ensure they know how to care for their developmentally disabled children
and deal with the stresses that come with balancing a full-time job with that
high-maintenance care.

San Jose mother Ofelia Martinez knows those stresses all too well. She sat for
an hour in the waiting room at the Gardner clinic Friday afternoon while her
26-year-old son, a diagnosed schizophrenic, chatted in a nearby room with a
support group of peers.

For three years, Martinez has driven her son, Oscar, to the center at least four
times a month for medical check-ups and counseling services. The 65-year-old
retired office assistant said she doesn't know how she or her husband, a retired
janitor, could manage if they were working full time.

Martinez said prosecutors should consider Eugenio's circumstances before
deciding her punishment.

"I know what her problems are like. Having to take care of a sick child is a lot
of work," Martinez said. "I don't blame her because she didn't know what to do."

Refusing medical care is common among many immigrant groups, not just Latinos.
Immigrants often come from countries where similar services don't exist. Caring
for family members is not something they're accustomed to turning to a doctor
for, said Tessie Guillermo, executive director of the Asian and Pacific Islander
American Health Forum in San Francisco.

In the Asian community, Guillermo said, there's the added feeling of shame.

"Asian-Americans are particularly low users of mental health services because of
cultural attitudes that shun mental disabilities," she said. "Many still live in
their ethnic enclaves, and it becomes well known if they go to a neighborhood
health clinic."

At Oakland's La Clinica de la Raza, administrators try to instill a belief in
their patients that health care comes first, before concerns about cultural
appropriateness or immigration status. The medical records of all patients,
including undocumented immigrants, are confidential, said Victoria Samper,
associate director of the clinic.

"The fear of 187 hasn't gone away," she said, referring to the 1994 initiative
approved by California voters, but later repealed, that denied health care
access to undocumented immigrants.

In both Oakland and San Jose, a community outreach program called Las Promotoras
sends health-care advocates out to low-income, immigrant neighborhoods to
discuss health issues.

Jackie Nunez, lead promotora in San Jose's program, said the key to their
success is creating trust within a community where many residents are
undocumented or speak only Spanish.

"Every day we're out there going door-to-door just to hear concerns from people
so they get to know us," Nunez said. "We do it with heart."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 31, 2001 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

CONSPIRACY CONVICTION: DEFENSE SEEKS LENIENCY;
LETTERS ARRIVE SUPPORTING LANDLORD'S BROTHER LAWYERS SEEK 5 MONTHS IN
IMMIGRATION FRAUD

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 535 words


Lawyers for Jayaprakash Lakireddy, brother of a wealthy Berkeley landlord
convicted in a highly publicized sex-and-immigration scheme, are asking that he
serve five months in prison.

The maximum sentence for the 48-year-old Oakland man's crime -- one count of
conspiracy to commit immigration fraud -- is 16 months in prison. A federal
probation officer has recommended 14 months, plus a $30,000 fine, according to
court documents made public Monday.

But Lakireddy's lawyer, Bill Osterhoudt, asked U.S. District Court Judge Saundra
Armstrong Brown to sentence Lakireddy to five months in prison and the remaining
part of his term on home detention.

Lakireddy is the youngest brother of Lakireddy Bali Reddy, who was sentenced in
June to eight years in prison for illegally importing minors for sex, conspiracy
to commit immigration fraud and submitting a false tax return.

Lakireddy and his wife, Annapurna Lakireddy, parents of three children ages 11
to 19, are scheduled to be sentenced in September. Both pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to commit immigration fraud.

Ann Moorman, the attorney for Annapurna Lakireddy, could not be reached Monday
for comment, but she has said in court papers that she supports the probation
officer's recommendation. It's unclear, however, from courtdocuments what that
recommendation is.

High-tech connection

In court papers, prosecutors contend Reddy and his relatives brought Indian
nationals from his home village in the state of Andhra Pradesh, a pivotal region
for the immigration of high-tech workers from India to Silicon Valley. The Reddy
family allegedly picked them up at the airport and took them to the many
apartments, construction sites and restaurants they owned or managed, including
the popular Pasand restaurants in the East Bay and South Bay. The immigrants
worked for less than minimum wage, court papers state.

Almost 50 people have written letters to the court, urging leniency for the
Lakireddy couple, who immigrated to the East Bay in 1974. The couple's tenants,
colleagues, employees and relatives wrote that both Jayaprakash and Annapurna
Lakireddy are honorable and hardworking people.

"The offense he has committed is certainly a serious one," Lakireddy's lawyer
wrote to the judge in a pre-sentence report. "But it should be tempered by the
fact that he has also extended help and employment to numerous legal immigrants
who have gotten their start in this country through his help and patronage. He
extended employment to many poor people who badly needed it."

Indian culture cited

A colleague wrote that it's common in Indian culture to share in the
responsibility of a bad act.

"He is the kind of person who would share the blame with his family members for
any wrong they have done if it helped them in any way, even if he has not done
anything wrong himself," wrote Barry Bhangoo, CEO of Oyster Software.

Only a few letters have been sent to the judge asking for a harsh punishment.

Marcia Poole, a Berkeley resident, told the judge that Lakireddy's construction
company "profited from cheap labor . . . that came from a lower-caste community
the Lakireddys routinely illegally smuggled into the country."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 19, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LOST VISAS MAY SPLIT GAY COUPLES UNMARRIED PARTNERS CAN'T ACT AS SPONSORS

BYLINE: JOHN HUBNER, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 780 words


In the world of love songs and romantic novels, love has no borders. In the real
world, Marta Donayre and Leslie Bulbuk, a gay couple living in Sunnyvale, have
discovered that love does indeed have borders. International borders.

Donayre, 32, is from Sa(tilde)o Paulo, Brazil, and is here on an H-1B work visa.
In April, she was laid off when Ariba, a business-to-business software company,
cut its workforce. Her visa disappeared with the job.

Donayre consulted an immigration attorney, who told her the longer she was "out
of status," without a valid visa, the more difficult it would be to secure
another H-1B visa. The attorney advised her to return to Brazil if she could not
find work quickly.

"If you are an immigrant involved with someone who is gay, you are a pink slip
away from having your life turn into a disaster," Bulbuk said.

Donayre and Bulbuk would like to marry, which would allow Donayre to apply for
citizenship. She and Bulbuk could pass the requirements the Immigration and
Naturalization Service requires of married couples: commingled finances and a
long-term, committed relationship. Because they are gay, this is not an option.
California has banned gay marriage and the INS does not recognize marriage
between gay couples.

"It's federal statutes," said Sharon Rummery, an immigration service spokeswoman
in San Francisco. "We have no discretion."

Donayre tried frantically to find another job, but the same high-tech firms that
had been sponsoring H-1B workers were now letting them go. She sold the
condominium in San Jose she wanted to keep as an investment in May and was about
to fly back to Brazil when she landed a job with a high-tech company in Foster
City.

But as long as the economy is shaky, Donayre and Bulbuk's future together in
America will be shaky, too.

"My relationship, my entire private life, turned out to be based on other
people's business decisions," Donayre said.

New law proposed

The experience has left the couple feeling like second-class citizens. To get
around laws they consider unjust, Bulbuk, 38, a concert flutist turned software
support consultant, said the couple considered a "sham marriage" -- "for about a
second." On occasion in the gay community, a lesbian couple like Bulbuk and
Donayre, where one partner is an immigrant who has lost a visa or doesn't have
one to begin with, will seek out two gay men in the same predicament. Together,
they will arrange a marriage that allows both partners to stay in the country.

"Marta wants to do this legally," Bulbuk said. "I really admire her for that."

Bulbuk and Donayre were elated to learn about the Permanent Partner Immigration
Act, a bill that would give a U.S. citizen in a long-term relationship the right
to sponsor his or her partner for immigration and has 82 co-sponsors, including
one Republican.

Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., who introduced the bill on Valentine's Day in 2000,
is careful to distance it from the issue of gay marriage.

"This is just a way to stop gratuitous cruelty," Nadler said. "It won't affect
the larger society."

But Nadler's bill has ignited a debate about gay marriage. Proponents view it as
an attempt to extend fundamental human rights to gay couples.

"This is all about a really basic human rights issue: being able to be with the
person you love," said April Herms, program coordinator for the Lesbian and Gay
Immigration Rights Task Force in New York.

State recognition

Opponents consider the bill a backdoor way to get the federal government to
recognize gay marriage. Jack Martin, special project director for the Federation
for American Immigration Reform in Washington, D.C., said the Nadler bill "puts
the cart before the horse." Martin said he thinks that the states must award
marital status to gay couples before the federal government.

"Nadler's bill would allow gays to live as married couples in states that don't
recognize gay marriage," he said.

No state recognizes gay marriage. In March 2000, California voters passed by 61
percent a ballot proposition that defined a legal marriage as a union between a
man and a woman. Bills in the Legislature seek to extend certain rights to gay
couples, such as the right to make health care and estatedecisions.

Nadler does not expect the House to hold hearings as long as Republicans control
it and is exploring the possibility of having the bill introduced in the
Democrat-controlled Senate.

Meanwhile, Donayre and Bulbuk believe the law has relegated them to a perpetual
limbo.

"I came to the land of the free and gave myself permission to be gay, only to
find that gays are not free in this country," Donayre says.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Leslie Bulbuk, left, and Marta Donayre prepare dinner in their Sunnyvale home.
Donayre, who is from Brazil, lost her job and with it her H-1B visa.
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Because the Immigration and Naturalization Service doesn't recognize gay
partnerships, Marta Donayre, right, fears she will have to leave her partner,
Leslie Bulbuk, and return to Brazil.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 15, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ESTABLISHED LATINOS MORE LIKELY TO SUPPORT CURBING IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: ANNE MARTINEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 581 words


Latino voters agree with most Americans that the government needs to crack down
on illegal immigration. But Latinos -- like other voters -- rank immigration
policy among their lowest priorities -- 11th among a list of 12 issues facing
the nation.

The Mercury News poll found that 43 percent of Latinos nationwide think the
government is not doing enough to stop illegal immigration. Another 30 percent
were satisfied with current border-control efforts, while 16 percent criticized
those efforts as excessive.

"It looks like the classic: 'We've been here awhile so let's lift the ladder
up,' " said R. Michael Alvarez, an associate political science professor at the
California Institute of Technology in Pasadena who consulted with the Mercury
News on the poll.

Alvarez said he was surprised by the anti-immigration sentiment, particularly in
California, where the views of Latinos track with those of Latinos nationwide.
In California, the 1994 campaign to pass Proposition 187, which was designed to
cut off benefits to illegal immigrants, sparked a dramatic increase in the
number of Latinos registering and voting.

Leopoldo Rojas of Hayward, a native of Mexico who is now a U.S. citizen, is
critical of the flow of undocumented immigrants. Despite entering the United
States illegally from Tijuana at 17, the 40-year-old truck driver now says the
U.S. government needs to do more to prevent undocumented immigrants from
entering the country.

"There's a lot of people who want to come and make a good life; but there's also
a lot who want to take advantage of the system," said Rojas, a registered
Democrat who plans to vote this year in a presidential election for the first
time. "I own a home. I have a family. I want to live here and die here forever."

The more established Latinos are in the United States, the more likely they are
to think the government is not doing enough to curb illegal immigration. Like
Rojas, 37 percent of foreign-born Latinos believe not enough is being done. But
that belief increases to 45 percent of first-generation Latinos and half of
second-generation Latinos.

More Cuban-Americans than other Latinos think fair immigration regulations
should be a top priority. But Mexican-Americans are twice as likely as
Cuban-Americans to say the government is doing too much to stop illegal
immigration.

Factors that typically distinguish recent immigrants from longtime residents,
such as language and income, also reveal differences among Latino voters.

Latinos who speak mainly Spanish at home are almost twice as likely as English
speakers to rank fair immigration regulation as a top priority. And although
more than half of English speakers said the government was not doing enough to
curb illegal immigration, only 33 percent of Spanish speakers agreed.

Likewise, voters who earn less than $15,000 a year were almost twice as likely
as those earning more than $50,000 to consider regulating immigration fairly a
top priority.

The view of Jose Corozo, a registered Republican, is typical of most Latinos.
Immigration policies, he said, take a back seat to more pressing needs, such as
combating crime.

"Education and crime affect you up close," said Corozo, 35, a father from the
South Florida city of Miramar. "Illegal immigration bothers me, but not as much
as someone breaking into my house."

CHART: KNIGHT RIDDER, MERCURY NEWS
IMMIGRATION
[Please see microfilm for chart]

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SPECIAL REPORT: A MERCURY NEWS POLL OF LATINOS
RELATED STORIES: Pages 1A, 18A, 19A
IMMIGRATION

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: PENNY DE LOS SANTOS -- MERCURY NEWS
Leopoldo Rojas trims flowers at his Hayward home with his wife, Gloria. He is
critical of the current flow of undocumented immigrants.
[001015 FR 19A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 5, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION WANDERING OFF CAMPAIGN TRAIL CANDIDATES HAVE SIDESTEPPED WHAT WAS
ONE OF HOTTEST TOPICS IN PAST ELECTIONS

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 708 words

DATELINE: TIERRA DEL SOL


Bob Maupin carries a gun and sometimes drives an Army surplus halftrack as he
guards his family's 250-acre ranch along the U.S.-Mexico border from what he
calls an invasion of illegal immigrants from the south.

But Maupin, 61, admits that few candidates share his concern this year.

"They aren't saying anything about immigration, which is very frustrating,"
Maupin said.

It's a stark contrast from the mid-1990s. Back then, politicians routinely held
news conferences on the border, jockeying to outdo the other in opposition to
illegal immigration.

But not this year. Pat Buchanan, the Reform Party candidate for president,
planned a photo-op with Maupin and his halftrack, but then canceled at the last
minute because of what his staff said was a scheduling conflict. The others have
avoided the area and the issue.

Voters are staying quiet

Fewer illegal immigrants may be crossing into California, and political
candidates and analysts say the issue doesn't resonate with voters like it once
did.

"It's not such an in-your-face problem," said Rep. Brian Bilbray, a Republican
whose San Diego-area district includes a part of the U.S.-Mexico border.

Bilbray, who is in a tight race with Democratic state Assemblywoman Susan Davis,
said some constituents and Border Patrol agents in his district have opposed a
proposal to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants who have lived in the United
States since before 1986.

But the congressman isn't hearing much more, largely because a U.S. border
crackdown, known as Operation Gatekeeper, has pushed migrants away from San
Diego to the mountains east of the city, where Maupin lives, and to the desert
of Imperial County.

A few weeks before Gatekeeper started in 1994, voters in California adopted
Proposition 187, the ballot initiative that sought to bar most state services to
illegal immigrants. Gov. Pete Wilson made the issue a central theme of his
successful re-election campaign in the same year.

But analysts agree that the political climate is different this year.
Unemployment was 8.6 percent in California in 1994; today it's 4.8 percent.

"The economy is good and that papers over a lot of the problems caused by
immigration," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, which advocates reducing the legal and illegal immigrants who enter the
United States.

It's not just California, but much of the nation that has lost interest in the
debate, said Demetrios Papademetriou, a specialist in the issue with the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. "We're just too
self-satisfied at this time," Papademetriou said. "The major party candidates
aren't stupid. They realize this."

Keeping Latino voters

Latino voters now make up about 15 percent of the California electorate,
compared with 10 percent in 1990, and candidates don't want to alienate them by
harsh words about immigration, said Mark DiCamillo, director of the non-partisan
Field Poll.

"It's a divisive issue. The candidates don't want to talk about it," he said.

California is home to more legal immigrants than any other state, 3.7 million
lawful permanent residents or 35 percent of the nation's total. In the 12 months
that ended Oct. 30, the Border Patrol caught 389,427 illegal immigrants along
the state's 140-mile border with Mexico, compared with 477,806 during the same
period six years earlier.

But those arrests shifted eastward. The apprehensions around San Diego fell 66
percent to their lowest level in years, while there was an eight-fold increase
in the Border Patrol sector to the east. Some of the traffic moved to Arizona,
where illegal immigration has remained a political issue.

Maupin sees them cross near his ranch in the mountain community of Tierra del
Sol, about 70 miles east of San Diego.

"They're not as blatant about it as they used to be, but we see groups of 30 and
40 getting ready to come across," Maupin said. "The invasion is still going on."

He and friends have detained immigrants at gunpoint until U.S. authorities
arrive. Chuck Dierkop, the agent in charge of the local Border Patrol station,
said he's asked Maupin not to take the law into his own hands and to call if he
sees any illegal activity.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DENIS POROY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rancher Bob Maupin guards his family's 250-acre ranch with the help of surplus
military vehicles. The ranch is along the U.S.-Mexico border, about 70 miles
east of San Diego.
[001105 CA 27A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 22, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FLOW OF IMMIGRANTS IS UNABATED BORDER CRACKDOWN IS A DEADLY FAILURE

BYLINE: JOSEPH NEVINS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 1102 words


ON Oct. 1, 1994, the Clinton administration launched "Operation Gatekeeper," the
enhanced border enforcement strategy of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Southern California. Six years later, it is clear that the expensive
operation has accomplished little other than to create an image of boundary
control and to cause large numbers of migrant deaths. Such reasons alone should
lead us to put an end to the fatally flawed strategy. More important, however,
the failure of Gatekeeper should force us to question our approach to
unauthorized immigration and national boundaries in a world where social
relations increasingly transcend such boundaries.

The administration began Gatekeeper with much fanfare. It was a time of
persistent economic downturn and a historically unprecedented level of public
and political activism in favor of cracking down on illegal immigration. In some
ways, it was the administration's response to the pressure from increasingly
restrictionist Republicans in Congress, but especially that of then-California
Gov. Pete Wilson and the feared passage of Proposition 187.

In other ways, it was the administration's answer to the massive disruption in
Mexico's rural and small business sectors brought about by growing economic
liberalization, a process intensified by the North American Free Trade
Agreement. It was for this reason that INS Commissioner Doris Meissner argued in
1993 that responding to the likely short- to medium-term impacts of NAFTA "will
require strengthening our enforcement efforts along the border, both at and
between ports of entry."

As the centerpiece of the Clinton administration's Southwest border enforcement
strategy, Gatekeeper provided the INS in Southern California with unprecedented
levels of personnel, technology and infrastructure. The number of agents in the
Border Patrol's San Diego sector, for example, has grown from 980 in 1994 to
more than 2,200. As a result, of such changes, it is undoubtedly more difficult
to cross the border now. Gatekeeper has pushed migrants from urban areas into
more unforgiving and risky terrain and forced them to rely on high-priced
smugglers. Indeed, the ultimate goal of the new enforcement strategy is to make
it so difficult and costly to enter the United States extra-legally that fewer
people try to do so.

But research at the University of California, San Diego indicates that, overall,
Gatekeeper is having little effect in stemming unsanctioned immigration to
California. Migrants have learned to adapt and are utilizing increasingly
sophisticated and expensive smugglers to evade the Border Patrol. In this
regard, Gatekeeper has had an unintended consequence: Once in, the immigrants
are less likely to migrate back to Mexico in the off-season and are staying in
California for longer periods of time.

Perhaps the greatest accomplishment of Gatekeeper has been to make undocumented
immigrants less visible and thus give the appearance of a border under control.
Meanwhile, growing numbers of migrants perish beyond the media spotlight in the
mountains and deserts of California's border region.

By the Border Patrol's own criteria, such an outcome suggests that Gatekeeper is
somewhat failing. The Border Patrol and INS officials expected that Gatekeeper
would discourage a significant number of migrants from crossing by pushing them
out into mountain and desert areas where, after making a cost-benefit analysis,
they would rationally decide to forgo the risks and return to Mexico. Given that
this is not happening, the INS is arguably partially responsible for the deaths.

But the INS refuses to acknowledge any responsibility, instead blaming smugglers
for leading people into high-risk areas and positioning itself as the defender
of the migrants. In June 1998, for example, the INS launched "Operation
Lifesaver," involving civil patrol flights to spot migrants indistress and
increased search and rescue missions in hazardous areas. As Claudia Smith of the
California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation contends: "As long as the strategy
is to maximize the dangers by moving the migrant foot traffic out of the urban
areas and into the mountains and deserts east of San Diego, the deaths will keep
multiplying."

One such death was that of 20-year-old Jose Luis Uriostegua. Border Patrol
agents discovered his frigid body on Mount Laguna in eastern San Diego County,
about 20 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico boundary, this past March 22. He has
been designated No. 500 -- the 500th person to perish while trying to evade the
U.S. Border Patrol in Southern California since Gatekeeper began. The count is
now up to 603.

Fleeing from Guerrero, one of Mexico's poorest states where human rights abuses
are rife, Uriostegua was struggling for a better life for himself and his
family. Rather than seeing the world as divided, he saw it as whole. In this
respect, the young man recognized what many of our political imaginations do not
allow us to see: The U.S.-Mexico boundary, as a line of control and division, is
an illusion. Mexico and California are increasingly one.

ON a more practical level, moreover, a law enforcement approach to immigration
is destined to fail. The ties between the United States and Mexico are too
strong, migrants are too resourceful and Americans are too resistant to the
police-state measures that would prove necessary to significantly reduce
unauthorized immigration.

Rather than try to create new methods to repel people who cross our borders --
but whose hard work we welcome -- we should embrace them. At the same time, we
need to appreciate that immigration is often the result of the breakdown of
political, economic and social systems and work with various sectors of Mexican
society to redress such phenomena.

Had Uriostegua made it to Los Angeles, he might be mowing your lawn, busing your
table or picking your tomatoes. He would be one of the hundreds of thousands of
unauthorized immigrants who form the backbone of California's booming economy.
As Los Angeles' striking janitors reminded us last spring, immigrants are human
beings who, regardless of their legal status, deserve our respect and
solidarity, not poverty wages or a potential death sentence.

Mexico's president-elect, Vicente Fox, has shown himself to be open to
rethinking the nature of the U.S.-Mexico boundary. This provides people on both
sides of the divide with an opportunity to move beyond immoral, ineffective and
ultimately counterproductive approaches to the complexities of immigration that
inextricably bind our two countries.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joseph Nevins is the author of "Operation Gatekeeper: The Rise of the
'Illegal Alien' and the Remaking of the U.S.-Mexico Boundary." He wrote this for
the Los Angeles Times.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 13, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS NEARS PACT ON ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT AMNESTY

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 131 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Congressional Republicans said Tuesday that they were nearing agreement with the
White House on legislation that would grant legal status to hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants.

After resisting the idea for months, the Republicans have submitted an amnesty
proposal to the White House, and they said they were inching toward an agreement
that could be included in a budget deal, clearing the way for adjournment of the
106th Congress.

The agreement falls far short of the comprehensive amnesty sought by President
Clinton, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, immigration lawyers and civil rights
groups. But the proposal goes further than most Republicans were willing to go
before the Nov. 7 election, offering benefits to tens of thousands of additional
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 11, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE WITHDRAWAL OF LINDA CHAVEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 944 words


THIS letter is not intended to defend Linda Chavez nor to say that she should be
secretary of labor. It is intended to point out a classic case of hypocrisy.

Democratic senators were going to oppose her based on the issue of illegal
aliens. It is Democrats who oppose forceful efforts to stop illegal immigration
and efforts to ban taxpayer-provided benefits to illegal immigrants. They call
people who support such measures "racist." It is Democrats who advocate general
amnesty for illegal immigrants. Chavez was acting in accordance with their
general principles.

This was not about illegal aliens. This was a chance to attack a Republican and
embarrass the president-elect, and the Democrats jumped at it.

Eric Werts
Los Gatos
THAT pitiful parade that Linda Chavez performed Tuesday is not going to change
my mind about the "compassion" of right-wing Republicans. I was thrilled to see
her go. One down and two to go.

Herman M. Griego
San Jose
Powerful disincentive

WHETHER he realizes it or not, Gov. Gray Davis has dealt a mortal blow to the
struggling power companies in this state.

First they were cut off at the knees by the government with a rate freeze that
drove them billions of dollars into debt. Now that same government, by the words
of the highest elected official in the state, is threatening to confiscate their
power plants!

Who's going to build the generating capacity -- so badly needed to drive market
prices down -- when faced with an open threat of confiscation of that generating
capacity and destruction of free markets by the government?

Michael Pelletier
San Jose
Reconsider nuclear

THERE is a simple, clean, cheap answer to California's energy woes: nuclear
power.

The problem with the first round of nuclear plants was that they were distorted
by the regulatory process. The available fail-safe designs were for smaller
plants while the regulatory structure, guaranteeing high rates of return on
capital investment, created an incentive to build large plants, pumped up with
expensive safety systems (necessary to compensate for their fail-unsafe design).

Modern plants would be safe and cheap. The fuel is essentially inexhaustible and
disposal of the nuclear waste is trivial. After a couple hundred years, the
small amount of spent fuel is less radioactive than when it was mined from the
ground (scary revelations about the waste being radioactive for 10,000 years
notwithstanding).

At a time when the credible environmental threat is global warming, the zero
carbon dioxide emissions of nuclear power make it far more environmentally
friendly than burning fossil fuel. That ought to keep the environmentalists from
protesting, and it ought to cause any environmental protest to be quickly
dismissed. But the environmentalists are not rational and neither are our
environmental laws.

Deregulation on the supply side needs to include relief from the regulations
that allow environmentalists to stall nuclear projects indefinitely. This is
just as true if we go socialist, as Governor Davis desires.

Alec Rawls
Palo Alto
Look who's selling books

I read with interest the article by Mercury News reporter Tracey Kaplan on her
working as a clerk at the bookstore Barnes & Noble (Perspective, Dec. 31).

There is no telling whom one might find in their ranks. My husband is a retired
surgeon who traded his scrubs for casuals to explore other occupations. He has
now worked for 2 1/2 years, three days a week, at Barnes & Noble in San
Francisco. He comes home with tales of obnoxious clients, demanding snobs,
deranged people -- he could write a book. But, he does enjoy helping customers
find the books they seek and recommending further reading. Yes, it is a
departure from the operating room, but it has its rewards.

Michele M. Kissack
San Francisco
Victims of porn

A recent Mercury News article (Page 1A, Jan. 3) described how the Internet is
contributing to the globalization of the sex trade. Quoting from the article,
"With a few clicks of a computer mouse, a man can log on anywhere . . . and be
transported instantly to a bedroom in Thailand or the Ukraine." Selective
viewers "can now see a particular type of woman doing a type of act, and can do
that from a global connection out of sight. Over time it will increase the
demand for real sex slaves."

This article challenges the widely-held view that pornography is harmless. In
fact, there are many victims, most notably:

* The women and children who are forced to perform on camera to satisfy the
world's growing appetite for pornography.

* The men who spend money, time, and attention focused on what can easily become
an addiction, sometimes progressing to risky behaviors such as seeking liaisons
with prostitutes or underage girls.

* The wives or partners of the porn-obsessed men who can never measure up to
their distorted expectations.

* The employers who lose productivity to employees who log on at work to indulge
their voyeurism.

But pornography isn't about to go away. A lot of men like it. And a lot of those
men are in powerful positions in government and business. There is also the
American Civil Liberties Union, and don't forget the big money in this
multibillion-dollar industry.

As long as people keep paying for pornography, there will be profit-seekers who
will do whatever is necessary to supply it, even if it means exploiting or
enslaving poor, homeless, oppressed young people from around the world. Demand
begets supply. Please, think about that next time you log on to your favorite
porn site and try to make believe that those women or children are having fun.

Linda Roy
Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Chavez

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 13, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

DRAWING THE LINE LINDA CHAVEZ IS LATEST TO ILLUSTRATE COUNTRY'S MORALS VS.
ETHICS FIGHT OVER ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: RICHARD SCHEININ, Mercury News

SECTION: RELIGION & ETHICS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 1544 words


Eight years ago, as Zoe Baird's nomination for attorney general floundered,
ethicist Michael Josephson received a phone call from the New York Times at his
home in Marina del Rey. The news was just breaking that President Clinton's
nominee had hired illegal immigrants as live-in babysitters and paid them under
the table. The reporter wanted Josephson's reaction to Baird's predicament.

"It was the first I'd heard of it," Josephson says, "and I remember thinking,
'That could have been me.' Because I had a situation where I had a housekeeper,
too. I paid her by check, and I thought -- for whatever reason, I'm not a
lawyer, I really didn't know -- that it was her job to report the income to the
IRS."

In a nation whose government winks at the employment of tens of thousands of
illegal immigrants as babysitters, gardeners and bus boys, did Baird deserve to
be disqualified from office in the then-new Democratic administration? Was the
1993 "Nannygate" debacle a matter of ethics or raw politics?

Now that Linda Chavez's nomination for labor secretary has unraveled, similar
questions are being asked by ethicists such as Josephson and other political
observers: Was the Chavez case, which echoes Baird's, a matter of morality? Of
legality?

Or was Chavez, a Republican who opposes the minimum wage and holds conservative
views on discrimination laws, the victim of political retribution?

Chavez housed an illegal Guatemalan immigrant in her Maryland home in the early
'90s: "Technically it's a crime, humanly it's not," says former Colorado Gov.
Dick Lamm, a Democrat and specialist in immigration issues at the University of
Denver. "You can hardly get a meal served or a bed made here in the West without
it being done by an illegal alien. How am I going to be judgmental about Linda
Chavez?"

Jean Bethke Elshtain, professor of social and political ethics at the University
of Chicago, says Chavez was "Borked" -- a reference to the famous Democratic
derailing of U.S. Supreme Court Justice nominee Robert H. Bork in 1987.

"God knows, we all have things in our lives that we would not want put under the
full glare of publicity," she says. "Because they look very different in that
light than when we were living through them. Every little thing in a person's
past is not an egregious thing in the present."

In 1993, Baird admitted that she had employed illegal immigrants and had failed
to pay Social Security taxes on their salaries. The case of federal judge Kimba
Wood, whose nomination for attorney general was also felled by Nannygate, was
less clear-cut. She, too, had hired an illegal immigrant as a babysitter -- but
legally, in March 1986, before the passage of the U.S. Immigration Reform and
Control Act.

The Chavez case is also murky. Yes, an illegal immigrant named Marta Mercado
lived in Chavez's home from late 1991 to late 1993 -- a time during which Chavez
publicly criticized Baird for her indiscretions and said the nominee wasn't fit
to be attorney general.

But early this week, Chavez said she hadn't known at the time that Mercado was
in the country illegally. Mercado said that Chavez had known -- and, after
withdrawing her nomination Tuesday, Chavez conceded that this was so. The
flip-flop dampened some of her support. Still, important details remain unclear:
Was Mercado a housekeeper or gofer whom Chavez paid under the table? Or was she
simply a poor guest, fresh from a battered woman's shelter, who was given refuge
and spending money by Chavez, as both allege?

Under federal statutes, it is illegal to knowingly "conceal, harbor or shield
from detection" an illegal immigrant and to fail to pay Social Security taxes
for an employee. But drawing the line between legality and morality can be
difficult. Did Chavez break laws? Did she show real compassion?

Perhaps both. Not every legal infraction is a moral infraction. State and local
laws still on the books around the United States ban everything from racial
intermarriage to buying a car on Sunday. Few would argue that breaking those
laws is immoral.

Likewise, even those, like Lamm, who support new programs to curtail illegal
immigration, find it hard to condemn someone who lends a hand to apoor illegal
immigrant, something that the Bible commands.

Of course, Chavez's case had this wrinkle: As labor secretary, she would have
had to enforce laws that ban the employment of undocumented immigrants -- laws
that she enthusiastically champions. The perception that she may have broken
those laws was a problem. The fact that she failed to disclose the Mercado
episode at all was "a practical mistake and an ethical mistake," says John W.
Gardner, a professor of public service at the Stanford Business School.

As President Johnson's secretary of health, education and welfare in the 1960s,
Gardner was charged with enforcing Social Security laws. As a citizen, whenever
he hired someone to work for him privately, the law was on his mind: "I did
think very much about the Social Security thing," he says. "And if the person
was on Social Security, he had to be a citizen, and I sure didn't fudge that
one."

If Gardner sounds straightforward about politics and personal ethics, the
scenario that engulfed Chavez this week was anything but. As congressional
leaders and everyday citizens chose sides over her nomination, the lineups were
bizarre: Democrats who supported the sanctuary movement of the 1980s -- which
flouted laws against the harboring of illegal, political refugees -- attacked
Chavez for opening her home to an illegal immigrant. And Republicans who
supported California's Proposition 187 and other strict anti-immigration
measures in the '90s, defended her.

In typical Washington fashion, the matter ballooned out of control. Chavez was
either a saint or a liar. But the seed of the controversy -- the housing of an
illegal immigrant almost a decade ago under circumstances that remain unclear --
was "a relatively trivial matter," says Bill Spohn, professor of Christian
ethics at Santa Clara University. "It's on a level with, 'Did you smoke pot when
you were in college 20 years ago?' "

"Was it a big enough flaw to invalidate someone for office?" he asks. "I didn't
think so when a Democrat was in trouble, and I don't think so this time. I
opposed Chavez for other reasons."

The national conversation about Chavez has veered in all sorts of directions. It
has been duly noted, for instance, that Baird, Wood and Chavez are all women.
Some have said that while male nominees are judged on their merits, female
nominees are grilled on their housekeeping choices -- and then dropped.

Josephson, the ethicist, is disturbed by the "volume of hypocrisy" that
characterized those who criticized Chavez's involvement with an illegal
immigrant. "How many of the people screaming about this have done the same
thing?" he asks.

After receiving that phone call from the New York Times in 1993, Josephson says,
he went to his accountant and mailed out a check for all back taxes owed on
wages paid to his housekeeper. He learned his lesson, he says, and did the
responsible thing.

He wonders if Chavez, given her involvement in the Zoe Baird controversy,
learned her own lesson. Still, he says that political attacks on Chavez lacked
"proportionality." They amounted to "public service capital punishment."

Lamm agrees that "there's a blood sport aspect to this. We've got ourselves into
a polarization in American politics where we really are cumulatively making it
very hard to get people into office. I think it would be an injustice to indict
her. I think there are some things that we must be wise enough to overlook."

If anything, the Chavez case has put a personal face on public policy.

Stanford's Gardner doesn't have enough facts, he says, to conclude that Chavez
is guilty of anything. But looked at more broadly, the episode has him thinking
that "the exploitation of undocumented aliens is becoming the Great American
Pastime."

The American establishment "is winking at undocumented workers who do enormous
amounts of low-paying, back-breaking work in this country," says Santa Clara's
Spohn. "In the long run, without Social Security and worker's compensation,
they're gone -- ultimately, they're going to limp back to Mexico. But in the
short run, they want money in the pocket now, because they have starving kids
back in Chihuahua who need it."

It's easy to talk about the need to curtail illegal immigration and protect U.S.
jobs. But then a case like Chavez's comes along and complicates the debate.

"Do we really want a society where we're all responsible for enforcing the
immigration laws?" asks Josephson. "What if Chavez had a friend who was
employing an illegal immigrant at home? Should she have been expected to turn in
her friend?

"I have a gardener," Josephson says. "I've never asked him for citizenship
papers. Should I ask him? Should that be a requirement?

"I just wish she'd owned up to it," Josephson says of Chavez. "I would rather
she'd said, 'You know, I did do this and I'm not sure I wouldn't do it again.
And yes, I can enforce the laws -- but I've never heard of enforcing them
against individual homeowners.' I wish people would be more up front, that's
all."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2001

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 1/16/01, pg. 2A) A caption in
Saturday's Pathways section incorrectly stated former Secretary of Labor nominee
Linda Chavez's position on California's Proposition 187. Chavez opposed the 1994
proposition, which would have denied most social services to illegal immigrants
and their children.

GRAPHIC: Photos (5);
PHOTO: HARRY CABLUCK -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Linda Chavez, shown with President-elect George W. Bush, was a supporter of
anti-illegal immigrant laws, like California's Proposition 187.
PHOTO: KENNETH LAMBERT -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Linda Chavez, right, listens to a whispered remark from her husband, Chris
Gersten, while supporter Josh Iturrino speaks on her behalf at a news conference
Tuesday. She withdrew her name for labor secretary.
PHOTO: FAYE ELLMAN -- REUTER'S ARCHIVES
Kimba Wood was taken off President Clinton's list for attorney general when she
admitted to having once hired an illegal immigrant.
PHOTO: JOHN DURICKA -- AP ARCHIVES
In 1993, attorney general-nominee Zoe Baird admitted that she had employed
illegal immigrants and failed to pay Social Security taxes on their wages.
PHOTO: SUSANA RAAAB -- NEW YORK TIMES
Marta Mercado lived in Linda Chavez's home from late 1991 to late 1993. Mercado
was an illegal immigrant from Guatemala.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 6, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY: IMMIGRANTS COST BORDER COUNTIES MILLIONS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: CALIFORNIA


Counties along the Mexican border, including some of the poorest in the United
States -- shell out $108 million a year in police, court expenses and emergency
medical care associated with illegal immigrants, according to a new study that
is the first to tally such expenses across the nation.

Slightly more than half of that total was born by California's two border
counties, San Diego and Imperial, according to the analysis, funded by the U.S.
government and issued by the U.S./Mexico Border Counties Coalition. Those two
counties spent $55.7 million on law enforcement and emergency treatment for
undocumented immigrants in 1999, the year analyzed.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 13, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COST OF IMMIGRATION FALLS ON THE STATES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 559 words


TAXPAYERS in California and the three other states along the border with Mexico
shoulder unjust burdens of this country's failing approach to immigration. Every
year, they must spend millions of dollars to provide services to people in this
country illegally.

The federal government is a deadbeat when the time comes to pay up.
Reimbursements cover a fraction of the money shelled out by state and county
governments, on everything from hospital care to law enforcement.

States shouldn't expect dollar-for-dollar payments from the feds. Undocumented
workers contribute greatly to the economic prosperity of many communities. But
in instances where illegal immigrants create demonstrated large financial drains
on local budgets, the federal government has an obligation to increase the money
sent back to the states.

Examine California's prison population. Illegal immigrants occupied one of every
eight beds, according to figures from 1999. The federal government covered less
than a third of the $600 million tab.

It's just one example.

In an annual ritual, officials in the border states ask Washington for better
compensation. Congress members say they're sympathetic but can't provide more
dollars without better corroboration of the costs.

Now they have it. A new study by university researchers in Arizona, California,
New Mexico and Texas provides the first detailed analysis of the extra expenses.
It examined how many dollars border communities spend to prosecute and jail
undocumented immigrants who commit crimes, and how much money goes to emergency
medical help.

Paid for by the federal government and issued by the U.S./Mexico Border Counties
Coalition, it found that border communities in 1999 paid out $108 million on law
enforcement and emergency care for undocumented immigrants. San Diego County's
bill came to $50 million, most of it to pay for work by sheriffs, prosecutors,
coroners, probation officers and the courts.

The study only looked at costs of the 24 counties along the national border, not
other California counties with significant numbers of illegal immigrants. Santa
Clara County, for instance, has an estimated 100,000 residents lacking
immigration papers. Still, the study provides the credible numbers that Congress
has said it needs before increasing payments to the states.

Sen. Jon Kyl, an Arizona Republican, has introduced a bill to relieve some of
the strain. If approved, border states would get $1.6 billion over the next four
years to help pay for incarcerating illegal immigrants who commit crimes or need
emergency medical care. California's U.S. senators, Barbara Boxer and Dianne
Feinstein, support the legislation.

Much of the money would go to the counties along the U.S.-Mexican border, which
need federal help the most. But other dollars would go to counties with large
numbers of undocumented immigrants. The exact split is uncertain.

Texan George W. Bush, no stranger to the challenges of governing a border state,
should need no convincing that this money is overdue.

Kyl's proposal is only a stopgap. Longer term, the president and Congress need
to address how to fairly deal with the estimated 6 million to 7 million people
living in this country without immigration documents, and the state and local
government agencies that cannot ignore them.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 23, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

10,000 CENTRAL AMERICANS TO BE OFFERED AMNESTY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 71 words

DATELINE: MEXICO


In a bid to help Central Americans fleeing poverty and natural disasters, Mexico
next week will offer amnesty to as many as 10,000 undocumented immigrants,
government officials said Thursday.

But the new amnesty program is also a message to the United States: While
President Vicente Fox is urging U.S. officials to open their border to more
Mexican immigrants, Mexico is willing to do the same with its southern frontier.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 5, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EARTHQUAKE MERCY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 185 words


THE Bush administration has a heart, even when it comes to illegal immigrants.
President Bush will allow undocumented Salvadorans to stay in this country while
their homeland recovers from two powerful earthquakes.

The quakes, which hit in January and February, caused $3 billion in damages.
They flattened the homes of one in every four Salvadorans.

Sending the Salvadorans back to their devastated country -- still struggling to
rebuild from Hurricane Mitch in 1998 -- would have been cruel. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service had been deporting 11,000 a month. Mercifully, it
suspended deportations after the first quake.

Bush's order means Salvadorans won't have to rely on the good graces of the INS.
They'll receive what's called "temporary protected status." That will enable
them to live and work here for the next 18 months without fear of being
deported.

Bush noted that quake in the Pacific Northwest "reminds us of our obligation to
reach out to help those in other nations struggling in the wake of disaster to
rebuild their homes and lives." We couldn't agree more.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: QUICK HITS

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 2, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AFGHAN WOMAN GIVES BIRTH AT U.S.-MEXICO BORDER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 112 words

DATELINE: OCOTILLO


A Border Patrol agent may have saved the life of a newborn by giving
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation in the minutes after the baby girl's birth to an
illegal immigrant from Afghanistan along a mountain trail near the U.S.-Mexico
border.

The woman gave birth with help from four Border Patrol agents about 1 a.m.
Saturday in a rugged mountain area along the border about 100 miles east of San
Diego, Hoberg said.

Agents patrolling the area heard the woman screaming and found her along with
her husband and two young children. All are from Afghanistan.

The five will be held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service pending a
hearing on their legal status.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 7, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STORM FORCES IMMIGRANTS TO TURN THEMSELVES IN

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: ARIZONA


More than 400 undocumented immigrants were forced to turn themselves in toU.S.
Border Patrol agents after being caught in a sudden storm while crossing the
Arizona desert, U.S. officials said Friday.

Five people were taken by helicopter and ambulance to Tucson hospitals with
symptoms that included hypothermia.

A representative of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said a
school was converted into a makeshift shelter in Sells, 30 miles north of the
border. The town is on the Tohono O'odham Indian reservation, about one hour's
drive southwest of Tucson.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 9, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SEARCH, RESCUE TEAMS WORK NEAR BORDER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 132 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Border Patrol search and rescue teams remained active Sunday in the mountains
east of San Diego as temperatures dropped to freezing levels in areas where
illegal immigrants have died in the past while trying to enter the United
States.

The teams found 65 illegal immigrants, some suffering from mild hypothermia,
from Friday night to Sunday morning, said Border Patrol spokesman Fernando
Grijalva.

None of the immigrants required hospitalization.

The search and rescue teams, whose members are certified as emergency medical
technicians, were to remain on alert until the storm passed, he said.

Temperatures in eastern San Diego County dropped as low as 26 degrees in some
high-elevation areas over the weekend. Freezing rain, fog and light snow also
blanketed the region.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 1, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MISINFORMATION AND PANIC FED LENGTHY LINES AT INS OFFICES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
COULD HAVE MAILED VISA APPLICATIONS

BYLINE: CECILIA KANG, PUTSATA REANG AND ALEXIS CHIU, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 780 words


Many of the thousands of illegal immigrants who camped outside Bay Area INS
offices in recent days hoping to apply for a crucial visa were wasting their
time.

All they needed to do was drop their petitions in the mail, and they could have
avoided the lines altogether.

"Most people here don't understand the process," Umberto Barros, supervisor of
the San Jose Immigration and Naturalization Service office, said Monday. "Most
of them don't need to be here."

But a mix of bad information and panic led scores to stand in long lineslike the
ones Monday that snaked around the San Jose and San Francisco buildings.

They came to sign up to apply for visas that will allow them to become legal
residents without leaving their families or jobs in the United States. And they
were rushing to beat a midnight Monday deadline.

Bundled in blankets, winter coats and knit caps, hundreds of undocumented
immigrants camped out Sunday night in long lines outside INS offices in San Jose
and San Francisco. The scene was similar in other cities across the country.

"We're tired and frustrated," said Loraine Suarez, who spent the night outside
the San Jose office and waited 14 hours to get service.

When she and her husband, Juan, arrived Sunday at 9 p.m., at least 200 people
were already waiting ahead of them.

Loraine Suarez said that she and her husband would have sent the form by mail
had they known that was an option.

But they didn't know where to look for information, and they trusted the
instructions of a friend who told them they needed to rush to the office in
person.

At 2 p.m. Monday, as they prepared to return to their home in Monterey County,
they stood with tired eyes, holding the blankets they had tried in vain to sleep
on the night before.

Loraine Suarez, 20, who works at a McDonald's in Gonzales, tried to put the best
face on a bad situation. "We feel good knowing that we got it over with."

At the San Francisco branch, the scene was just as frenzied. Nearly 1,000 stood
in line when the government office opened, and some had been there since Friday.
Sean Castleberry, of the North Bay, said someone offered him $100 to cut in
front of him.

The last-minute rush was unleashed by a law Congress passed in December, when it
amended the Legal Immigration Family Equity Act. Lawmakers added a section,
known as 245(i), that allows illegal immigrants to apply for legal status
without leaving the country.

If they don't apply to legalize their status, they face two unpleasant choices:
remaining in the United States illegally, or returning to their home countries
to apply for visas later.

If they leave the country to apply and the INS determines that they had been in
the United States illegally, they may be forced to wait up to 10 years to
return.

The details of the law confused many people.

"This law is very, very complicated," said Marc Yelnick, an immigration attorney
in San Mateo. He said some of the media have given incorrect information about
the act and that the INS should have explained the process more clearly.

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the INS, said that many of the people waiting
outside Bay Area INS offices wanted to make sure that their petitions were
properly filed. They worried that their applications might get lost in the mail.

"We were acting like a post office today," Rummery said. "But going to the post
office would have been easier. It has much shorter lines."

Enrique Castaneda, who waited at the San Francisco office Monday, just wanted
the reassurance of seeing his application processed immediately.

Castaneda, 30, and his wife, Flora Castaneda, 27, of Redwood City, stepped in
line at 8 p.m. Sunday -- right behind about 200 people.

"Mail takes more time," Enrique Castaneda said. "I'd rather just miss a day of
work and do everything on the spot."

According to Ruben B. Banda, INS deputy assistant district director in San
Francisco, the agency went to great lengths to make the last-minute process a
smooth one for those in line.

As many as eight officers were on hand to look over the paperwork of those
waiting, so they didn't waste their time if they were missing necessary
documents, he said.

Families were permitted to let an adult wait inside with the children, and a
nurse was at the building for pregnant women in line, Banda said.

By midafternoon, lines at both the San Jose and San Francisco offices had
dwindled.

New arrivals were able to walk in and quickly get served -- unlike thehundreds
of people who had camped out before them.

"It's really sad to see how misinformed people are," said Wei Qun E, an
immigration attorney in San Jose.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The LIFE Act
What it is: Legal Immigration Family Equity Act allows illegal immigrants to
apply for visas without first returning to their home countries.
Qualifications: Must be sponsored and must have a close relative who is a U.S.
citizen or permanent resident.
Costs: $225 in fees, $1,000 fine for entering country illegally.
Deadline: Applications had to be postmarked Monday or delivered to INS by
midnight Monday.
How many people are eligible? (estimated): 640,000

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Employees of Future Packaging received administrative help preparing their
applications for citizenship, which they took to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in San Jose in time to meet Monday's deadline.
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Juan Camacho naps on the shoulder of his wife, Ruth, outside the San Jose INS
ofice Monday. The couple got in line Sunday to apply for citizenship for Ruth.
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS Harjinder stands in line to file for
citizenship Monday at the San Jose Immigration and Naturalization Service
office, where people camped for as long as three days to take advantage of an
expiring law.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 4, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SUIT SEEKS TO BLOCK INS FROM SEDATING DEPORTEE WOMAN SAYS AGENCY THREATENED
DRUGS TO CALM HER BEFORE TRIP

BYLINE: T.T. NHU AND HALLYE JORDAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 871 words


When the INS tried to place illegal immigrant Bao Hua Dong on a plane bound for
China in November, a United Airlines gate attendant refused to let her board
because she was crying and hysterical.

Now the Immigration and Naturalization Service wants to try again, and an INS
deportation officer has threatened to sedate Dong and place her on an upcoming
flight, according to a lawsuit filed to prevent the Chinese woman from "being
forcibly drugged" by the agency.

"I've never seen anything like this before," said Linda Harter, an assistant
public defender in the federal public defender's office, who filed the lawsuit
in Sacramento.

INS officials would not discuss the Dong case in detail. An INS spokeswoman
first said it's not the agency's policy to drug people to remove them from the
country. But in a subsequent interview, Sharon Rummery, an INS spokeswoman, said
"when the person is violent or will hurt themselves or others, then under
supervision of a doctor . . . it would be necessary."

Rummery said she did not know of any case in which the INS had sedated a person
in Northern California so they could be deported.

A federal judge in Sacramento on Tuesday denied a request to block the INS from
sedating Dong without her permission, ruling that his court has no jurisdiction.

Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Glyndell E. Williams, a lawyer for the INS, said
the issue before the judge was the result of a "misunderstanding" and that the
INS would not sedate an illegal immigrant without first obtaining a court order.

"Sometimes it is necessary to sedate an alien, but we always obtain a court
order first," Williams told the judge.

Asked Wednesday if the INS would seek such a court order in Dong's case,
Williams said, "My understanding from talking to the deportation offices is this
is something that rarely comes up and, as far as I know, they don't have any
particular plan to go running into federal court as far as this particular
female Chinese alien is concerned."

At Tuesday's hearing, Chief Judge William B. Shubb of the U.S. District Court,
Eastern Division, said he has no jurisdiction over the case, eventhough Dong is
imprisoned nearby in a Yuba County jail and is arguing in that court that she is
being held illegally. Shubb said the federal courts in San Francisco would be
more appropriate to consider the injunction request because Dong would be
deported from San Francisco International Airport.

Threat called 'extraordinary'

Legal experts and immigration rights officials said the threat of sedating an
illegal immigrant to deport them is extraordinary.

"It's a pretty egregious thing to threaten," said Robert Weisberg, a criminal
law professor at Stanford University. "The government's power is at its height
in matters of immigration, and they would have to prove all less invasive
procedures have failed in order to drug her. Even then, I'd be curious what
doctor would agree to do this."

"I think it's barbaric and unacceptable to drug someone to get them on a plane,"
said Charles Wheeler, an immigration lawyer with CLINIC, the Catholic Charities
Legal Immigration Network in San Francisco. "The act speaks for itself."

Dong, 26, has been incarcerated at various INS detention centers since trying to
enter the country illegally at San Francisco International Airport on Dec. 7,
1998, using a falsified passport of a 40-year-old Japanese woman.

The native of Fukien province petitioned for asylum, saying she had helped hide
her pregnant sister, who had violated China's stringent family planning law,
which allows one child per family. She said her sister is still in hiding in
China. Dong also said she fears arrest if she is returned to China because she
left the country without official government permission.

In November 2000, one year after the deportation order, the INS tried to place
her on board a United Airlines flight at San Francisco International Airport.
But Katie Treu, a United Airlines gate attendant, said Dong was "too distraught"
to travel and refused to allow her on the plane, according to court documents.

Lawsuit filed

On April 5, Dong called Harter. Dong had been told by the INS to prepare to
return to China soon and that if she was uncooperative, she would be sedated for
the trip, according to the lawsuit.

That same day Julie Duclos, a paralegal with the federal public defender's
office, said she called the INS about the case and talked with James O'Brien, an
INS deportation officer.

"Mr. O'Brien responded by saying that he remembered that Ms. Dong had been
extremely uncooperative during a previous attempt to deport her, and that I
should advise her to cooperate with INS officers the next time," Duclos said in
a court declaration. "He further stated that if she was uncooperative the next
time . . . the INS officers would bring a doctor with them to forcibly sedate
her."

O'Brien could not be reached for comment.

Harter said Dong was adamant about remaining in an American jail rather than
return to China.

"She's terrified to go back to China, especially if she will be under the
influence of a chemical substance," Harter said. "Who knows what will happen to
her once she gets off the plane?"

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 6, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

KIDNAP INQUIRY LEADS TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 112 words


Dozens of illegal immigrants from Mexico were in U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service custody after they were found in a Los Angeles apartment,
police said.

Forty-three immigrants were found Thursday by Los Angeles police officers who
responded to a report of kidnapping and extortion, said officer Guillermo
Campos, a department spokesman.

Federal officials were conducting interviews with the immigrants to determine
whether they were being held against their will and whether their families were
being extorted by smugglers, said Sharon Gavin, an INS spokeswoman.

Arrangements were being made to return the immigrants to Mexico, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: California & the West

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                May 8, 2001 Tuesday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

APPEALS COURT HALTS WOMAN'S DEPORTATION TO CHINA

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 107 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Hours before the INS planned to send an undocumented immigrant back to China,
the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals granted an emergency stay Monday to block
the deportation.

Bao Hua Dong's case is attracting attention because an Immigration and
Naturalization Service deportation agent threatened to sedate her and then place
her on board a plane unless she cooperated.

A previous attempt at deporting her failed when Dong so forcefully and loudly
resisted at San Francisco International Airport that United Airlines refused to
let her on a scheduled flight to China. Dong, a 26-year-old Fukien native,
arrived in December 1998.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BAY AREA BRIEFING

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 24, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

12 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PERISH IN DESERT HEAT

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 61 words

DATELINE: ARIZONA


Twelve illegal immigrants died in the desert after crossing the border from
Mexico, and rescuers searched Wednesday for others who might be stranded in
temperatures that climbed as high as 115 degrees, the Border Patrol said.

The Border Patrol said 106 people died while crossing southern Arizona's deserts
during the federal fiscal year ending in September.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National In Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 26, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AFTER BORDER TRAGEDY, U.S., MEXICO COOPERATE JOINT SEARCH FOR SMUGGLERS, MORE
VICTIMS

BYLINE: GIOVANNA DELL'ORTO, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 451 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz.


The Border Patrol called off a search Friday for more victims of a failed border
crossing that killed 14 illegal immigrants in the southwestern Arizona desert.

Agents had been looking for one more possible victim but determined that tracks
they were following had been left by searchers, said Sgt. Bob McLemore.

Authorities on both sides of the border continued their search for smugglers
believed to have left the immigrants in the desert.

Mexican authorities said they had identified a suspected smuggler in the state
of Sonora but hadn't made an arrest as of Friday evening.

Roberto Rodriguez, associate director general for protection and consular
services, said prosecutors were preparing the paperwork to make an arrest but
needed a judge's approval before they could proceed.

The 12 survivors, from the Mexican states of Veracruz and Guerrero, were
hospitalized at Yuma Regional Medical Center with severe dehydration and related
kidney damage. Friday, the hospital listed 11 of them in fair condition, the
other in critical condition.

Border Patrol officials planned to meet Friday to determine how long they would
continue the search. Searchers thought one person might remain in the desert.

During their phone conversation, Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox pledged
cooperation for both the investigation of this week's deaths and future
border-policy negotiations.

"The presidents reaffirmed the importance of our ongoing efforts on border
safety and migration to ensure that tragic events such as this do not happen
again," White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said in a written statement.
"They noted we are making steady progress and pledged both sides would work hard
to carry this process forward."

Fox said his government would continue to work with the Bush administration to
search for a legal way to cross the border.

Fox said his government was working closely with U.S. authorities to attend to
the victims and find the smugglers.

"Already there has been sufficient identification of who did this, and surely we
will have an arrest soon," Fox said, calling the smugglers criminals for taking
Mexicans on what he described as a "road of death."

Rene Noriega, a Border Patrol official in Tucson, said agents were working
closely with their Mexican counterparts to find the smugglers.

The tragedy was discovered Wednesday when Border Patrol agents came across
several sunburned, dehydrated immigrants, who said there were others in distress
behind them.

Survivors said smugglers left them in the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife
Refuge, telling them they had to walk only a few hours to reach a highway. The
highway was about 70 miles away.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 29, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

3 MORE FROM ORDEAL AT BORDER RELEASED

BYLINE: Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Three survivors of the deadliest border crossing recorded in Arizona were
released from a Yuma hospital into U.S. Border Patrol custody Monday afternoon.

The three people were among the 26 illegal immigrants who were abandoned by
smugglers east of Yuma on May 19.

Twelve people survived. Thirteen immigrants died before they were discovered. A
teenage boy died on the way to the hospital.

Eleven survivors have been released from Yuma Regional Medical Center in the
past three days. The one survivor still in the hospital was listed in good
condition.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: California & the West

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 29, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

3 SURVIVORS RELEASED TO BORDER AGENTS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 102 words

DATELINE: ARIZONA


Three survivors of a border crossing in the Arizona desert that killed 14
immigrants were released Monday into U.S. Border Patrol custody.

The three were among 26 illegal immigrants who were abandoned by smugglers in
southwestern Arizona on May 19. Eight survivors were released from the hospital
into U.S. Border Patrol custody on Saturday and Sunday. The last survivor who
remained hospitalized was in good condition Monday.

The Border Patrol was holding the men and teenage boys who were released from
the hospital. They were being held as witnesses in an investigation of the
smuggling operation.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National In Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 21, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT IS AMNESTY SUCCESS STORY

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 751 words


Fifteen years ago, amnesty for illegal immigrants was the last thing on Rosalino
Pedres' mind. He was young and strong, able to run across the Mexican border
with ease. Who needed amnesty? Not this fleet-footed border jumper.

"It seems so long ago I could go across and come back any time I wanted," Pedres
said this week in his San Jose office. "A lot changed. You get older, and the
border isn't so easy to cross anymore. You begin to want a better, stable life
and greater opportunities."

Today he's a U.S. citizen, union man, homeowner and father of an American-born
daughter. And he's living proof that amnesty, which is in the news again, works
for deserving immigrants.

The new, open-border president of Mexico recently suggested legalizing
undocumented Mexicans working in the United States. The new, free-market
president of America is listening. Another amnesty is coming sooner or later.
You can bet your overpriced Silicon Valley house on it. Just don't pay attention
to the rationalizations from Washington.

The first amnesty was part of the misnamed Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986, which was supposed to reduce illegal migration to a trickle. The truth is
it couldn't stop an overbooked inner-tube on the Rio Grande.

Granting amnesty to illegal immigrants is like putting the proverbial cart
before the horse. We suddenly notice all these people doing grunt work that
Americans need done but won't do themselves. We see them paying taxes, going to
church and not complaining much. Gee, they're not so bad after all, so let's
legalize them.

True needs

The real question is why didn't we recruit them from Mexico in the first place?
The only answer is that we Americans haven't admitted our true need for cheap
labor or our special relationship with Mexico. When we finally do, we'll grant
more visas to Mexican workers like Rosalino Pedres.

He's a short, slightly built man with jet-black hair and a quiet determination.
At age 15, he found himself with few choices in Mata de Cana, a poor village
outside of Veracruz with no high school or college. He could grow corn on his
father's farm or study bookkeeping in Mexico City.

The trip to Mexico City paid off for a short time; he was laid off from his
first bookkeeping job. All signs pointed north for the teenager. Another mass
migration to the United States had begun in the early 1980s. His brother, who
was already picking fruit near Stockton, persuaded Pedres to sneak across the
border as he had done.

"OK," Pedres remembered saying. "I'll go, but only for about two years. Then I'm
coming back home."

He joined other relatives in San Jose after one harvest season.

"They told me I could be a manager in San Jose," he said. "When I got there they
found a job for me in a restaurant. They showed me the dishwashing machine and
said, 'There, you get to manage that.' "

A janitor's job after that turned out to be a stroke of luck. Organized labor
was rethinking its traditional rejection of illegal immigrant workers. He joined
the Service Employees International Union and impressed the leadership enough to
become an organizer himself. Ten years ago, he helped theunion develop the
"Justice for Janitors" campaign in Silicon Valley, which grew into an
influential national movement for economic justice.

Although he was studying English and American labor law, Pedres still wasn't
compelled to become a legal resident until his brother nagged him into it.

Ease of travel

"I agreed, mostly because the border was becoming too expensive and dangerous to
cross," he recalls.

The green card came, granting him the ease of travel he wished, but his
transformation wasn't finished. U.S. citizenship, another alien thought to him,
crept steadily into the picture.

"As a union organizer, I was always telling immigrant janitors that they had to
vote to protect their rights," he said, "and you have to become a citizen to
vote. I thought it was time to live up to my own words."

He's now married with an 11-year-old, American-born daughter and another child
on the way. On a combined income of less than $50,000, his family has bought a
modest house in San Jose's East Side. They participate in school and community
affairs.

Pedres favors another amnesty, but not just for Mexican workers.

"What about the Asian undocumented, and those from Latin America and Africa? To
be just, amnesty must be for them too."

Always looking out for the other guy. What's more American than that?

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 22, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TO SAVE LIVES, MEXICO SEEKS TO DETER ILLEGAL BORDER CROSSING

BYLINE: JOHN RICE, Associated Press

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 8AA

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

"Don't take the risk." "Think hard about it." Those were among the videotaped
warnings Mexico began running July 10 on U.S. border-bound buses, hoping to stem
a growing tide of migrant deaths.

The advertisements, which appeared on more than 5,200 buses heading toward the
border, focus on the perils of border-crossing, which include treacherous
terrain, scorching desert and immigrant smugglers who sometimes abandon migrants
to die.

The message in some is blunt: "Don't go."

"We want to inundate Mexico with the message," Juan Hernandez, head of President
Vicente Fox's Office for Mexicans Abroad, said at a news conference where he
unveiled the four new video advertisements.

Mexico's government says 491 Mexicans died trying to cross the border last year.
More than 160 have died so far this year, including 14 migrants whose bodies
were found in late May in the Arizona desert.

The advertisements offer grim warnings of death and illness to discourage
illegal immigration -- while encouraging those who do make the journey to send
money back home.

"The border today is very dangerous," Hernandez says on one of the spots, which
show scenes of migrants slipping through a tunnel and border fences marked with
crosses memorializing those who have died.

"The message I bring you is to think hard about it," one of the messages warns.
"Don't take the risk. People do die at the border; it's a reality."

Another spot warns against using smugglers, known as polleros.

"The polleros, those who traffic in human beings, are not your friends. We know
they abandon people in the deserts, in the mountains, beside rivers and they
wind up drowning," Hernandez says.

"They have raped girls," he continues. "Think hard about it. Don't risk it. . .
. Stay in Mexico. Seek opportunities here."

The Estrella Blanca bus line has agreed to show the spots, which run from about
40 to 70 seconds, along with regular feature films on 5,200 buses in Mexico. The
bus company said 350,000 people ride the buses each month. Hernandez said some
bus operators in the United States had offered to show the spots as well.

Mexicans have continued to attempt illegal crossings, even though U.S. officials
have built walls to make crossings difficult.

"My conscience would not let me sleep if I was not doing everything possible to
save, if necessary, one single life," Hernandez said, noting that he deals with
victims and survivors of border-crossing disasters as part of his job.

Fox and President Bush have also vowed to work more closely on making the border
area safer. While Mexico is discouraging illegal crossings, the U.S. Congress is
considering laws that would let more Mexicans cross legally for temporary jobs.

One of the videotaped clips urges those who make the trip to seek the safest,
cheapest way to send money back to their families.

Such remittances -- running at a pace of more than $8 billion a year -- are now
Mexico's third-largest source of foreign income after oil and tourism.

Another spot notes that AIDS is spreading in areas of Mexico where large numbers
of people emigrate.

"Citizens are going to the United States, they are being infected with AIDS and
then are passing it on to their families," Hernandez says in the ad, again
urging them to stay home and find work.

Hernandez noted that the government is also sponsoring other ads on national
television discouraging illegal border crossings.

He said the efforts to protect migrants and to create alternative jobs in Mexico
were motivated in part because "in Mexico, we want to have the moral authority
to be able to demand that our countrymen are treated well abroad."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE WORLD
MEXICO IN THE NEW ERA

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
A Mexican national hides in a vehicle that, officials say, was being used to
smuggle him into the United States at San Ysidro.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 12, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NO, NO, NO LETTER WRITERS STRONGLY OPPOSE AMNESTY FOR UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: TRAVIS ARMSTRONG column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 484 words

"I REMEMBER when Santa Clara Valley was a charming rural place with orchards.
The highways were two-lane black tops," recalls J.A. Carson of San Jose.

Carson, who's lived in California for 60 of his 81 years, doesn't like what he
now sees around him. "Today the valley is a crowded metropolis divided by
crowded superhighways and plagued by smog," he said in an e-mail. His answer:
Stem immigration because we're running out of resources and space.

Two Sundays ago we asked readers to tell us their thoughts about the immigration
reforms being floated in Washington. Scores of letter writers echoed Carson's
sentiment.

One reform plan, promoted by Mexican President Vicente Fox, would grant blanket
amnesty to several million undocumented Mexicans in this country. Another plan
would extend amnesty to people from other nations as well. Another would provide
temporary work visas to millions.

"No, no, no" responded readers. We received more than 150 e-mails and letters,
with only a handful in support of overhauling America's immigration policies.
Below is a sampling of the responses.

These might not reflect the views of a majority in the Bay Area, a region that
has welcomed immigrants. But the naysayers were motivated to write, and they
have offered up plenty of questions about America's approach to immigration.

Unlike the Mercury News editorial board, many readers don't buy the argument
that the deepening economic ties between the United States and Mexico call for
some kind of reform of immigration laws.

The notion of amnesty offends them because it rewards people who crossed the
border illegally. Said one documented immigrant: "I'm a technical professional
who finally got my green card after spending thousands of dollars and six years
working through the legal procedures set forth by the INS. There are thousands
of people like me who respect the law of the land and are waiting patiently in
line."

Others thought amnesty was shortsighted because it would just encourage more
immigrants to come. In 1986, they point out, an amnesty program gave legal
status to 3 million people. Since then an estimated 8 million more have come
here illegally.

Readers expressed dismay about the burdens that the influx of poor
non-English-speaking families place on public schools. They worried about
taxpayers being stuck with more hospital bills.

All this reader rage is in stark contrast to the mood in Washington. President
Bush and many congressional Republicans and Democrats seem determined to provide
legal status to a significant number of undocumented immigrants.

At the bottom of this page, Richard Hobbs writes about the need to do that in
Santa Clara County, where tens of thousands of undocumented immigrants have
become deep-rooted in communities.

It's a viewpoint little represented in letters we've received to date. I hope it
will spark further debate.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Page 6C
Travis Armstrong is a Mercury News editorial writer.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 22, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLL: OPINIONS SPLIT ON AMNESTY WHEN FOCUS IS ON TAX-PAYING IMMIGRANTS,
LEGALIZATION SUPPORT RISES

BYLINE: CECILIA KANG, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 432 words


A nationwide poll released Tuesday suggested that most Americans have mixed
feelings about the prospect of legalizing millions of undocumented immigrants.

When asked a broad question about amnesty, 49 percent said they would oppose it,
and 40 percent said they were in favor, according to the survey commissioned by
a coalition of labor and religious groups.

But support for the idea rose to 56 percent when pollsters explained that the
amnesty would apply only to immigrants who can prove they have been living in
the United States, working at a job and paying taxes.

The survey of 1,000 registered voters was commissioned by the Service Employees
International Union, the 1.4 million-member branch of the AFL-CIO, and Catholic
Healthcare West. It was conducted by Democratic polling firm Lake Snell Perry
and Associates and the Tarrance Group, a Republican firm.

The results were released simultaneously in 18 cities Tuesday. Leaders of the
San Jose SEIU chapter called the poll's results a triumph for California's
estimated 3 million to 4 million undocumented Mexican immigrants.

The poll comes just weeks before Mexican President Vicente Fox's visit to the
U.S. to meet with U.S. President George W. Bush. The two leaders are expected to
discuss immigration reforms that include the legalization of undocumented
immigrants and a new guest-worker program.

"The poll's results show that anti-immigrant sentiment has changed," said Anabel
Ibanez, organizing coordinator for the South Bay AFL-CIO Central Labor Council.

"Immigrants contribute to the economy. They don't drain the economy," said
Richard Konda, acting executive director of the Asian Law Alliance in San Jose.

It is not yet clear whether the amnesty plan that emerges will apply only to
Mexican immigrants, or to newcomers from all nations. But Konda said abroad
amnesty plan could benefit many undocumented Asian immigrants in the Bay Area.
Congress last overhauled immigration laws in 1986, when it approved amnesty and
permanent legal residence to nearly 3 million undocumented workers, about
600,000 of whom lived in California.

Immigration opponents criticized the poll, saying the questions were designed to
elicit a positive response.

"I frankly don't believe it," said Rick Oltman, the western director the
Federation of American Immigration Reform, which lobbies to reduce legal
immigration and to eliminate illegal immigration. "Most Americans are against
breaking laws."

Oltman said undocumented immigrants are unlawfully residing in the U.S. and
shouldn't even be able to hold jobs.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 12, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUCHANAN'S CHOICE A RISING STAR IN CALIFORNIA FOSTER'S CONSERVATIVE STANCE
MIRRORS HIS

BYLINE: ELSA C. ARNETT, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 771 words


For Californians who voted for Proposition 209 to abolish affirmative action and
Proposition 187 to cut services to illegal immigrants, Pat Buchanan has a vice
presidential candidate for you.

An unknown in mainstream politics, 62-year-old Ezola Foster -- petite and
immaculately dressed -- is a rising star in the California and the national
conservative circuit. Her voice and her ideas have boomed before crowds of
conservatives gathered around the country to hear her assail America's moral
decline.

Foster's message is a mirror image of Buchanan's: anti-illegal immigration,
anti-abortion, anti-affirmative action, anti-homosexuality and anti-bilingual
education.

Friends describe Foster, a spokeswoman for the ultraconservative John Birch
Society, as "the ultimate patriotic American." By that they mean that she
supports the police who beat up Rodney King in Los Angeles and she believes that
the Confederate Flag "should be honored as a part of our history."

One of five children raised by a single mother in Louisiana and Texas, Foster
spent much of her career teaching typing in high schools in Los Angeles. Her
message in speeches often focuses on the failure of public education.

"As a 30-year veteran of the public schools," Foster said recently, "I can say
with some authority that taking God out of the classroom has deprived our
children of a system of beliefs and stripped them of any principles by which to
direct their young lives."

Administrators at Bell High School, one of the schools where Foster taught for
many years, refused to comment on her record there. An official reached at the
Los Angeles Unified School District also refrained from comment.

A registered Independent, Foster served a co-chair of Buchanan's 1996
presidential campaign. She shares Buchanan's opposition to illegal immigrants
and has said, "Today, illegal immigration hurts blacks the most."

Foster was an active supporter of Proposition 187, the 1994 ballot measure that
would have cut most state assistance to illegal immigrants. The proposition
passed, but was later declared invalid by the courts.

Foster advocates say the Christian mother of three who also has worked for the
Democrats and the Republicans will be a crucial addition to Buchanan's ticket.

"Buchanan has been labeled a racist," said Patrick Rooney, with the Brotherhood
Organization of a New Destiny, a Los Angeles-based conservative group that
assists struggling families. "Ezola puts an end to that."

Rooney, who said Foster has addressed his group's events, also said he hopes she
will likely make the black community realize that there is room for them in
conservative circles.

"To be a black woman and to be conservative is unusual. She's been apioneer,"
Rooney said. But political science experts say nothing can temper the damage
done by Buchanan's long history of attacks against blacks.

"His positions are so anti-black in general and he's had so many bad things to
say about black leaders and black Americans, this won't help him," said Gary
Jacobson, a professor of political science at the University of California-San
Diego.

Jacobson also dismissed Foster's potential to galvanize black voters. "Nobody's
heard of her outside of L.A., and even there she is outside of the mainstream,"
he said.

At the very least, Foster's public profile will grow with her vice presidential
campaign. "Desperate political times call for desperate political measures,"
said Charles Ogletree Jr., a professor of criminal justice and civil rights at
Harvard Law School. "Buchanan made a timely and crucial choice that will get
them both attention for a while."

A main area of focus for Foster will be family values, which she says have
vanished from society, and which spurred her to start a conservative political
organization, Black-Americans for Family Values. She sided with former Vice
President Dan Quayle, who criticized the television program "Murphy Brown" for
featuring a lead character with a child out-of-wedlock.

And Foster chastised the African-American men gathered in Washington, D.C., for
the "Million Man March," saying, "If they really wanted to atone, these gang
members and the rest of the men that are there who have impregnated women, go
and marry them and raise their children."

Glenn Spencer, president of Voice of Citizens Together, a Sherman Oaks group
that opposes illegal immigration, said it is about time Buchanan and Foster
teamed up.

"The other parties think immigration is the third rail in American politics,"
Spencer said. "But it has been a disaster for our country in Biblical
proportions."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EZOLA FOSTER
Reform Party candidate Pat Buchanan's choice for running mate:*Age: 62
* Education: Bachelor's degree, Texas Southern University, Houston, 1960;
master's degree, Pepperdine University, 1973
* Career: 33 years as an educator in Los Angeles Unified School District,
starting in 1963 in Watts; taught at Bell High School 1985-96; political
activist for both Republican and Democratic parties; in 1984 and 1986 ran as a
Republican for the Assembly seat won by Maxine Waters; co-chair of Buchanan's
1996 and 2000 campaigns
* Activism: In 1987 protested California Board of Education guidelines on sex
education that neight encouraged nor condemned homosexuality; in 1988 led an
effort to ban homosexual groups from the California GOP, which she said had
become "the party of the perverts"; in 1997 was co-chair of the Stop Ebonics:
Save Our Children Committee, which opposed state funding for teaching black
English
* Politics: A vocal opponent of homosexuality, affirmative action, bilingual
education, illegal immigrataion; has condemned prominent black leaders as "snake
oil peddlers" of the welfare state
* Family: Married, three children
Sources: Associated Press, wire reports
-- KARL KAHLER -- MERCURY NEWSELECTION 2000
RELATED STORIES: pages 1A, 15A, 18A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Ezola Foster
[000812 FR 16A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 18, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HONDURAS ALLEGES U.S. KIDNAPPED RANCHER

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 120 words

DATELINE: CALIFORNIA


Honduran officials say they believe the United States may have kidnapped a
Honduran rancher and brought him to Los Angeles specifically to arrest him there
on immigrant smuggling charges, the Houston Chronicle reported Sunday.

U.S. authorities deny the allegation. They say Guatemalan authorities detained
Jose Leon "Leoncio" Castillo at the Guatemala City airport, then sent him back
to Honduras via Los Angeles, where U.S. authorities arrested him Oct. 5.

Documents filed in federal court this month allege INS agents abducted Castillo
at the Guatemala City airport, forced him to fly with them to Los Angeles,
arrested him at a Los Angeles airport, then lied about the abduction in an
attempted coverup.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 17, 2001 Wednesday SAN FRANCISCO EDITION

BERT CORONA, 82, LABOR ORGANIZER, AIDED UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Bert Corona, a sometimes fiery labor organizer, community activist and educator
who championed the rights of undocumented workers, Mexicans and other Latinos in
the United States for more than seven decades, has died from complications of
kidney failure. He was 82.

Mr. Corona died Monday night at Kaiser-Los Angeles hospital, where he was
transferred after being stricken Dec. 26 during a trip to Mexico to visit
relatives, said Nativo Lopez, executive director of Hermandad Mexicana Nacional,
the immigrant-rights organization Mr. Corona helped establish.

Hospitalized with an acute gall bladder inflammation, Mr. Corona underwent three
operations within nine days in Leon, Guanajuato. He was stabilized and
transferred more than a week ago to the Kaiser facility but never regained
consciousness, Lopez said.

Mr. Corona is remembered as a significant figure in civil-rights andlabor
circles who was sometimes compared to Cesar Chavez in his accomplishments. He
defended the rights of undocumented workers during a time when no one else --
not even Chavez -- would speak for them.

In addition to Hermandad Mexicana Nacional, Mr. Corona helped found the Mexican
American Political Association, one of California's oldest Latino political
organizations.

"He is a giant in the history of Latinos in the United States," said history
professor Mario T. Garcia of the University of California-Santa Barbara, "but he
was a lesser known figure than Cesar Chavez. He was, however, equally as
important. He did what no one had successfully done -- organize undocumented
workers. He is the urban counterpart to Chavez, who organized farm workers."

Mr. Corona, whose father fought in the Mexican Revolution of 1910, was born in
El Paso. He moved to Los Angeles in 1936 to play basketball at the University of
Southern California but did not finish college, choosing instead to immerse
himself in campaigns to improve conditions for workers and fellow
Mexican-Americans.

In 1938, he joined the charismatic labor organizer Luisa Moreno in building the
League of Spanish-Speaking People, one of the first national organizations for
Mexican-Americans. He also helped form chapters of Saul Alinsky's Community
Service Organization in Los Angeles.

His organizing efforts in the CSO often brought him into contact with another
up-and-coming Mexican-American CSO organizer from Northern California, Chavez,
who would help establish the farm workers union in the 1960s.

While Mr. Corona generally supported Chavez and his UFW, he openly clashed with
the farm-labor leader over the union's opposition to undocumented workers.

Hermandad soon became a major immigrant services provider, with offices in North
Hollywood, Santa Ana and Los Angeles. But by the end of 1992, federal grants,
its largest source of income, dried up. In recent years, the organization was
dogged by more than $4 million in debts, but Mr. Corona continued to believe in
its mission.

Mr. Corona's first wife, Blanche Taff, died in 1993. A year later, he married
Angelina Castillo, who still works for Hermandad as its director of affordable
housing.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 13, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DETAINED IMMIGRANTS WHO ALLEGED SEX ABUSE ARE TRANSFERRED TO JAIL ADVOCATES SAY
VICTIMS ARE BEING PUNISHED

BYLINE: FREDRIC N. TULSKY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 572 words


Faced with repeated complaints that female immigrants held in its Miami
detention center had suffered sexual and physical abuse from the guards
responsible for their care, the Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday
moved all 90 women held there to a county jail.

INS officials said they were moving the women, who included about 55 refugees
seeking asylum, for their safety, while a Justice Department investigation of
the complaints continues. But the move infuriated organizations that assist the
women and other immigrants and asylum seekers.

"Where else in the United States do you jail the people who were sexually abused
rather than the people who committed the abuse?" asked Wendy Young, Washington
liaison for the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, which issued
a blistering report in October on the conditions of women at the INS detention
center.

The transfer of the women from the facility raises again the issue of how the
INS treats asylum seekers and other immigrants it detains in a variety of
federal institutions and local jails, a group that now totals about 20,000.

The detention of immigrants, particularly in local jails, has drawn criticism
from such organizations as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, which
concluded in a report last year that asylum seekers "are held in conditions that
are sometimes inhuman and degrading."

The INS commissioner then, Doris Meissner, responded to the Human Rights Watch
report by saying the agency "is deeply committed to providing a safe, secure and
humane environment for all detainees, regardless of where they are being held."

The year before, the INS had developed a series of guidelines, detailing
everything from food and medical care to access to telephones and attorney
visits that applied to the federal detention centers the INS ran directly or
through contracts.

Last month, after much delay, the agency issued a separate set of guidelines
intended to establish a minimum level of care for INS detainees held in local
jails.

The problems at Krome highlight the fact that the INS has encountered troubles
protecting its detainees not just at local jails, but at thefacilities it runs
directly or through contracts with private corporations.

In announcing the transfer from the facility, on the outskirts of the
Everglades, the INS district director for the region, Robert A. Wallis, said in
a statement the transfer was being made "to ensure those detainees the most
safe, secure and humane detention conditions possible."

The agency said the women would be housed in a "full service, state of the art"
facility that would offer many services.

But Cheryl Little, the executive director of the Florida Immigration Advocacy
Center, which provides representation to many of the detainees, called the
transfer to the county jail "a matter of great concern to us. No question about
it: It's a jail."

Women detained at the center, known as Krome because it is on Krome Road, first
complained last spring that guards were committing sexual assaults, and were
threatening those who complained with deportation. So far, one guard has been
indicted on rape charges and several others reassigned away from Krome.

"Clearly, we didn't want females at Krome exposed to abusive officers," Little
said. "But in trying to solve one problem, they created another. They are, in
some ways, punishing the victims."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 25, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAN PERSECUTED FOR CROSS-DRESSING GAINS U.S. ASYLUM

BYLINE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports by Kaye Ross, Mercury, News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A cross-dressing, gay Mexican man persecuted in his homeland is entitled to
asylum in the United States, a federal appeals panel ruled Thursday.

The decision by three judges of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals expanded
the social circumstances of persecution that immigration officials must consider
during asylum hearings.

Federal courts have already allowed asylum for a variety of political and social
reasons, including a woman's fear of genital mutilation in her African homeland.
Just last month, the 9th Circuit ruled that an Armenian who says he was given an
ultimatum to become a communist or leave Armenia deserved another bid for
asylum.

The case decided Thursday involves Geovanni Hernandez-Montiel, a gay Mexican
citizen who dresses and behaves as a woman.

He testified that he was harassed and persecuted by his family, school officials
and police, who he said sexually assaulted him. In 1995, he fled to the United
States and requested asylum, but was denied.

Judge A. Wallace Tashima wrote that the appeals panel had determined that "gay
men with female sexual identities in Mexico constitute a protected 'particular
social group' under the asylum statute . . . and that Geovanni is a member of
that group."

The appellate panel reversed a previous decision by the Board of Immigration
Appeals.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk of the Bay

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 29, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON ENTERS BUDGET FIGHT WITH CONGRESS

BYLINE: JACKIE KOSZCZUK, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 895 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott put in a call to President Clinton last
week to talk about some White House proposals to change immigration law, he was
told the president was attending a fundraiser in New York.

"But he would be happy to speak with Mr. Lott when he gets back at 1 a.m.," a
White House aide informed Lott's office.

Lott, a Mississippi Republican, decided to sleep instead. His aides relayed the
episode to depict Clinton as arrogant, partisan and unwilling to negotiate.

The relationship between Clinton and the congressional Republicans who tried to
oust him from office two years ago has never been cordial, and the current
budget fight has done little to improve the atmosphere. Clinton forced Congress
into a rare work session this weekend, and Saturday he told reporters: "The real
problem here is that the right wing of the Republican caucus has not permitted a
compromise."

Resorting to stopgap

The Congress enacted a stopgap measure Saturday to keep the government running
for 24 more hours but made little apparent progress in breaking the budget
impasse. Despite the action of the House and the Senate on the eighth stopgap
spending measure since the fiscal year began Oct. 1, neitherRepublicans nor
Democrats predicted a quick deal.

Clinton is threatening to veto a law-enforcement spending bill because it does
not include his provision to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants who arrived in
the United States before 1986 -- the very issue Lott wanted to discuss. He also
says he will veto a $240 billion, 10-year tax-cut package that includes a
minimum-wage increase popular with Democrats, but which also offers help to
managed HMOs that Clinton opposed.

The tactic is vintage Clinton, and it arms Vice President Al Gore and some
Democratic congressional candidates with ammunition for the remaining days of
the election campaign. In fact, Gore weighed in on Clinton's side Saturday,
linking rival George W. Bush to congressional Republicans and declaring a
Republican plan to boost spending on certain HMOs a "boondoggle."

It isn't clear, however, whether these vetoes would be as good for the Democrats
as Clinton's earlier jousts with Newt Gingrich's Republican "revolutionaries,"
or whether they might only reinforce Republican denunciations of "partisan
bickering."

"He may veto it, but the American people are going to know what needed to be
done and who vetoed it," Lott said.

The president's reluctance to work with Congress, Lott said, only bolsters
Bush's claim that he would be a more conciliatory president than Gore.

Gore advisers see an advantage, however, and plan to step up their campaign to
link Bush to the Republican-controlled Congress.

"It's a tremendous risk for Governor Bush to be tied in with Republican
majorities in Congress," Gore adviser Tad Devine said Saturday. "The perception
is that Republicans in Washington have done some very bad things."

But this is not 1995, when the newly empowered Republicans insisted on sending
Clinton spending bills embracing their ideas such as eliminating Cabinet-level
departments and scaling back social programs. The president vetoed them, and the
resulting stalemate forced the closure of everything from Social Security
offices to national parks for several weeks.

Although both sides refused to budge, Clinton used the presidential megaphone to
effectively blame it all on GOP "extremism."

This time, with a narrower majority and eager to get home and campaign for
re-election, the Republicans have been more willing to negotiate.

Earlier last week, Republicans gave in to several Clinton demands in their $240
billion tax-relief bill. It contained a $1 increase in the minimum wage over two
years, a substantial boost in the amount of tax-free savings people can put in
individual retirement accounts and employer 401(k) plans; and it restored $30
billion in federal cuts in Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, HMOs and
home health care providers.

Thinking they had a deal, Lott and House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., decided
to bring the bill to the House and Senate floors Thursday.

Before the first vote was cast, however, they received a letter from the
president saying he intended to veto the measure.

GOP grumbling

All across Capitol Hill last week, Republicans fumed. Stepping off the Senate
floor Friday, Lott grumbled about a White House maneuver that kept lawmakers
working through the weekend, preventing them from going home to campaign. "Pure
political harassment," he said.

"He's a master of the art of blaming Republicans for sending him legislation
that he can't sign," said John Pitney, a political scientist at Claremont
McKenna College in Southern California who has written extensively on
Republicans in Congress. "You would think they'd learn. It's like Charlie Brown
and Lucy with the football. They never win."

The president, meanwhile, took full advantage of his office, speaking directly
to the public to portray Republicans as the obstructionists.

He spent nearly an hour in the White House Rose Garden on Friday criticizing
Republicans on television. He blamed them again Saturday during his radio
address.

"Here in Washington, after months of partisan delay by the congressional
majority, Congress still hasn't completed its work on the budget," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: HILLERY SMITH GARRISON -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Clinton blames Republicans for the budget impasse Saturday during a
news conference at the White House and his weekly radio address.
[001029 FR 15A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 7, 2001 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

PLEA AGREEMENT EXPECTED TODAY LANDLORD WILL PAY $2 MILLION A BERKELEY
BUSINESSMAN WAS ACCUSED OF TRANSPORTING MINORS FOR ILLEGAL SEX IN AN IMMIGRATION
FRAUD SCHEME.

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 705 words


A Berkeley landlord whose property assets are valued at more than $50 million
has agreed to pay four victims a total of $2 million as part of a plea agreement
expected to be finalized in U.S. District Court today.

Court papers filed in Oakland's federal courthouse this week indicate Lakireddy
Bali Reddy, 63, will plead guilty to two counts of transporting minors for
illegal sex as part of a larger immigration fraud scheme.

Because the transportation-for-sex crime is considered "violent," prosecutors
can recommend that Reddy be incarcerated while awaiting his formal sentence.

But both Assistant U.S. Attorney John Kennedy and defense attorney Ted Cassman
agreed in court papers that Reddy should remain free on bail living with his
brother in Merced, which he has been doing for the last year. They said Reddy is
not a flight risk or a danger to the community.

Kennedy and Cassman also agreed it's better to keep Reddy out of custody so he
can negotiate with prospective buyers to sell his properties and come up with
the $2 million for the victims, whose identities have not been revealed. In
court papers, Kennedy said the sum is fair, because each of the victims comes
from "extremely poor families in lower castes in India."

Reddy, a native of a southern Indian village called Velvadam who moved to
Berkeley almost 40 years ago and became one of the city's wealthiest landlords,
is charged with illegally bringing over Indian nationals from his home village,
a pivotal region for the immigration of high-tech workers to Silicon Valley.

With the help of relatives, Reddy allegedly picked up about 50 immigrants at the
airport since 1986 and took them to the many apartments, construction sites and
restaurants his family owns or manages, including the popular Pasand
restaurants, according to charges. The immigrants worked for less than minimum
wage. Reddy also is charged with bringing girls over for sex.

Except for the transportation-for-sex counts, it is not known what other charges
Reddy will plead guilty to as part of the plea bargain. Full details of the deal
should become public today when Reddy appears before U.S. District Court Judge
Saundra Brown Armstrong. She also is expected to rule whether Reddy should be
remanded into custody.

Prosecutors refused to discuss the case Tuesday. They would not say how much
time Reddy could spend in prison. But under a previous plea agreement that fell
through late last year, Reddy could have been sentenced to a maximum of about 20
years in prison.

Reddy probably will be sentenced in July, along with his brother, Jayaprakash
Lakireddy, 47, and his sister-in-law, Annapurna Lakireddy, 46, who entered
guilty pleas Monday to one count each of conspiracy to commit immigration fraud.
As part of the plea agreement, Reddy's two relatives are expected to serve a
maximum of about a year in prison.

Reddy's two sons, Vijay, 31, and Prasad Lakireddy, 42, dropped out of the plea
bargain negotiations and are heading to trial to fight the charges against them.

Attorneys for the unnamed victims said they were satisfied with the $2 million
payment as part of the overall plea agreement involving Reddy. In fact, they
worked closely with federal prosecutors in coming up with the sum.

But that amount is "just the first step," said Michael Rubin, an attorney who
represents Reddy's alleged victims in a pending civil suit. He said he is in
"furious" negotiations to settle the case out of court, asking for a lotmore
money on behalf of an unknown number of victims.

"This is just a baseline payment," Rubin said.

Jayashri Srikantiah, an attorney for the ACLU's Immigrants Rights Project, also
has been working with prosecutors on behalf of Reddy's alleged victims. More
than money, she said, the victims want Reddy to "come forward and admit to what
he's done is wrong."

"All these years Mr. Reddy has been claiming he's run a legitimate business,"
Srikantiah said, "and we want him to be unmasked, and say he's been trafficking
young girls and women for at least 15 years. . . . No amount of money will
compensate the victims for what they've suffered. But entering a guilty plea is
an admission of what he's done."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: Page 4B, Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Reddy

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 13, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ALLEGED SMUGGLER SHOT NEAR BORDER

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 150 words

DATELINE: DULZURA


A suspected immigrant smuggler was shot in the face by Border Patrol agents
after he ran them down with his vehicle.

The shooting occurred Friday around 9 p.m. when agents approached a car
suspected of containing undocumented immigrants, said Border Patrol spokesman
Jim Wainer. The vehicle was about two miles northeast of the U.S.-Mexico border,
he said.

"The driver then attempted to run agents down, striking both," Wainer said. "The
agents were able to regain composure and defend themselves by firing their
weapons."

Officials found three people in the trunk of the car, he said.

One of the agents was taken to a local hospital. His condition was unknown,
Wainer said. The other was treated and released.

A medical helicopter transported the alleged smuggler to Sharp Memorial
Hospital. Spokesman Gustavo Friederichsen said Saturday that he was listed in
serious condition.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 14, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BODY, THREE STOWAWAYS ARRIVE ABOARD CARGO SHIP

BYLINE: Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 122 words

DATELINE: LONG BEACH


A cargo ship arrived in port Wednesday with three Central American stowaways and
the body of a fourth who died at sea, authorities said.

The cause of the 41-year-old man's death was not known. He and two other
stowaways, ages 37 and 39, were from Colombia. The fourth man was identified as
at 26-year-old Panamanian, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

The crew of the McKinney Maersk discovered the stowaways near the end of a
voyage from Europe to California via the Panama Canal, said Sharon Gavin,
spokeswoman for the Los Angeles INS district.

The four men apparently boarded the ship in Panama on Dec. 4, and the captain
was notified by phone late Tuesday that there may have been stowaways aboard.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CALIFORNIA & THE WEST
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 10, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHAVEZ WISELY WITHDRAWS BUSH CAN FIND A LABOR SECRETARY WHO IS ABLE TO UNITE THE
COUNTRY RATHER THAN DIVIDE IT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 415 words


LINDA Chavez, known more for conservative views on labor and affirmative action,
today wears another badge: President-elect Bush's first major political defeat.

Rather than endure bruising senate confirmation hearings dominated by questions
about an illegal immigrant she harbored, Chavez wisely took her bows.

Her withdrawal, just a week after she was tapped to head the Labor Department,
is a big win for foes who had lined up to protest her nomination on several
fronts.

Ironically, though, it wasn't Chavez's ideology that forced her to fold. Indeed,
it was most unlikely that her conservative political positions would have been
enough to torpedo her nomination.

Rather, her fate turned on a law that nominees ignore at their peril:
It'sillegal to knowingly employ or harbor illegal immigrants and to fail to pay
Social Security taxes on behalf of any employee.

President Clinton's first two nominees for attorney general eight years ago --
Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood -- had to withdraw because they too had employed
illegal immigrants.

Marta Mercado said she stayed in Chavez's home from late 1991 to late 1993 and
that Chavez knew she was in the country illegally.

Mercado said she vacuumed, scrubbed and performed other household chores for
Chavez, who occasionally gave her money. In America that's called maid service.

Chavez, 53, came under attack early. She opposed a modest minimum wage increase,
pitting herself against organized labor. Her anti-affirmative action rhetoric
made for many more enemies.

Bush has repeatedly promised an administration that would work to unify the
country after a close and bitter election. But Chavez represents a voice that
hardly spoke for the American public.

As staff director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, for example, she
helped to undo civil rights advances by turning upside down affirmative action
and busing policies.

On her watch, the agency's state advisory committees, which conducted
investigations, became more conservative, more white and more male.

It is unfair to expect Bush to choose for his cabinet people who don't share his
general political views. It is not unfair to expect his choices to be centrists
who will help unite the country rather than divide it. By our standards, Chavez
is not in that moderate category. While her downfall resulted from other
factors, we're not sorry to see her go -- and we believe the president-elect can
do better, in choosing a Secretary of Labor.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
RELATED STORY: Page 6B

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DOUG MILLS - ASSOCIATED PRESS
Linda Chavez at her press conference Tuesday.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 8, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER NEWS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services.

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 98 words

* Democrats returned with a new amnesty bill Wednesday that seeks to allow
millions of undocumented workers to remain in the country legally. The bill
would make illegal immigrants who have been working in the United States for
more than five years eligible for green cards, protecting them from workplace
exploitation.

* Gus Boulis, a south Florida developer who made a fortune by assembling a vast
empire of restaurants, hotels and floating casinos, was shot and killed in his
car Tuesday night on a Fort Lauderdale street in what the police describe as a
well-orchestrated assault.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National In Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 8, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL SLASHES RESIDENCY TIME TO QUALIFY FOR GREEN CARD

BYLINE: Mercury News staff and wire reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 209 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Santa Clara County's 100,000 illegal immigrants would become eligible for green
cards under legislation introduced in Congress on Wednesday.

The bill by U.S. Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Illinois would make illegal immigrants
eligible for green cards if they could prove they had lived in the United States
for five years since October 1996, said Richard Hobbs, Santa Clara County
director of citizenship and immigrant services.

Immigrants also would have to be of "good moral character," meaning not
convicted of any crime.

The Oct. 12, 1996, registry date would advance each year by a year until 2007,
Hobbs said.

"It would allow a rolling registry," Hobbs said.

Currently, illegal immigrants have to prove they have been in the country since
1972 to be eligible for a green card.

That registry date has not been changed since the Reagan administration, Hobbs
said.

The South Bay Labor Council is leading a grass-roots effort to pressure Congress
to pass the legislation, said council organizer Anabel Ibanez.

"We all benefit from immigrant labor. We enjoy clean hotel rooms and office
buildings, clean dishes and service in restaurants, health care in nursing homes
and countless products made by immigrants' hands," Ibanez said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Talk Of The Bay
A Fresh Look At News Around The Bay Area

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 23, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE LIMITS PRENATAL CARE FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 80 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Pregnant women who are in this country illegally have no right to prenatal care
under Medicaid, a federal appeals court decided Tuesday in a ruling that upheld
the cutting back of benefits for illegal immigrants and raised the issue of
whether a fetus is a person with rights.

But the panel of judges on the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, in Manhattan,
also ruled that children born to illegal immigrants were entitled to Medicaid
benefits for the first year of life.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 4, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REPORT CITES DANGER OF BORDER CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: Mercury News wire reports

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 136 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A congressional report says the U.S. government's 7-year crackdown along the
Southwest border has served mainly to steer undocumented migrants to dangerous
mountains, deserts and rivers but produced no persuasive evidence that illegal
entries have fallen across the 2,000-mile boundary.

The assessment is included in an annual evaluation of the border strategy by the
General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress. The report said
that while arrests have plummeted to record lows in some formerly troubled
areas, such as San Diego, overall arrests on the border rose between 1994 and
2000.

The clampdown, which began in October 1994 has been extended to cities in
Arizona and Texas that are hot spots for illegal crossings. Migrant smugglers
have adjusted by taking back-country routes.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CALIFORNIA & THE WEST
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 16, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B BILL HELD HOSTAGE BY CLINTON, GOP SAYS

BYLINE: BART JANSEN, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A long-stalled bill to increase the number of visas for foreign high-tech
workers gets the Senate's attention next week, facing an "extremely uncertain"
future because of a partisan battle over other immigration issues.

The bill has significant support in Congress and appeared headed for passage
until President Clinton announced in May that any visa increase had to be linked
to changes in immigration policies mainly involving Hispanics.

Clinton's move stalled the bill, because Republicans insist that the issues are
unrelated and should not be paired. After months of inactivity, Senate Majority
Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., filed a motion Friday for a vote as early as Tuesday
on whether the Senate should consider the visa bill.

"We think this is a hostage the Democrats are not willing to shoot," said John
Czwartocki, Lott's spokesman.

For each of the next three years, the bill would increase from 115,000 to
200,000 the number of H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers entry for
specified periods to do jobs that American workers cannot be found for. Without
the bill, the number falls to 107,500 in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 and
65,000 a year after that.

The high-tech industry has labeled the bill a top priority, contending there are
too few qualified American workers to fill necessary jobs. The visa quota ran
out in March this year, and the industry claims to have openings for 300,000
more workers.

Labor unions oppose increasing visas. They argue the industry is looking
overseas chiefly to hold down wages.

Ranit Schmelzer, a spokeswoman for Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D.,
said Democrats are expected to vote to consider the bill. They also plan to try
to attach two amendments backed by Clinton and Hispanic organizations, including
the National Council of La Raza.

One amendment would offer permanent residence to political refugees from El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Haiti similar to that granted those from Cuba
and Nicaragua. Another amendment would grant amnesty for illegal immigrants who
have lived in the United States since 1986. The current registry deadline is
1972.

Supporters say working-class immigrants who already live in the United States
deserve help if more white-collar foreigners are allowed in.

Sen. Phil Gramm, a bill sponsor, said the measure won't pass with such
additions.

"The Democrats claim they are for it, but they want to be paid tribute to let it
pass," said Gramm, R-Texas. "There will not be a tribute."

Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, chairman of the Judiciary Committee that recommended
approval of the visa bill in April, said Clinton's proposals were "unrelated,
costly and far-reaching."

"I hope we can get this done," Hatch said, but allowed that the bill's fate is
"extremely uncertain."

A similar partisan conflict over amendments has hindered consideration of
pending visa bills in the House. Rules Committee Chairman David Dreier,
R-Covina, said Senate approval of a bill without "politically charged"amendments
"may help restore the bipartisan atmosphere in the House" necessary to approve a
bill.

Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America,
said he's glad to see some movement, even if it remains unclear what will
happen.

"I think it is admirable of Senator Lott to move this along and smoke everybody
out in the open," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 27, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TECH VISAS INCH AHEAD LATINO IMMIGRATION ISSUES KEY IN DEBATE

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1175 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress and the White House on Tuesday moved to break a stalemate on
legislation to nearly double the annual number of visas for foreign high-tech
workers. But legislative leaders cautioned that approval for one of Silicon
Valley's top legislative priorities still faces obstacles as the congressional
session comes to an end.

Republicans and Democrats, along with high-tech lobbyists, remain optimistic
that the number of so-called H-1B visas will be approved before Congress
adjourns in the coming weeks. The high-tech industry has argued that the
increase in the visas, which allow foreigners to work temporarily in this
country, is desperately needed to fill job vacancies in the booming economy.

"Our position has always been, however the Congress needs to get this done, just
do it," said Thom Stohler, director of workforce policy for the American
Electronics Association.

The optimism was fueled by two actions Tuesday intended to resolve the
months-long standoff on the legislation.

Republican leaders in the Senate pushed forward with a procedural vote designed
to force the legislation to be considered in the coming days. The overwhelming
94-3 vote was a strong indication of underlying support for the bill, which
would raise the current annual allotment of visas from 115,000 to 195,000 for
the next three years.

Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott predicted that the bill will pass the Senate
by early next week. "We need to get this . . . issue resolved, and we intend to
do that," Lott said.

A strong bipartisan vote in the Senate in favor of the H-1B legislation could
pave the way for approval in the House, according to several people involved
with the legislation.

Controversial proposals

Meanwhile, congressional Democratic leaders and the White House agreed to
separate the H-1B visa issue from more controversial proposals regarding Latino
immigrants.

Those proposals -- including extending amnesty to illegal immigrants who have
been in the country more than 14 years -- have severely complicated the H-1B
visa debate because both parties are appealing to the growing number of Latino
voters in California and throughout the country.

Rather than insisting that any H-1B visa bill also include the Latino
immigration provisions, Democrats have decided to push for those provisions to
be included on one of the budget bills that Congress must approve this year.
President Clinton has promised Latino members of Congress that he will veto the
budget bill -- which funds the departments of Commerce, Justice and State -- if
the provisions are not included in the bill.

And on Tuesday, Democratic leaders in Congress released a letter of support from
enough Democrats in the Senate and House of Representatives to prevent an
override of Clinton's veto by the Republican-controlled Congress. That could
pave the way for the Latino proposals to become law this year.

But moving the Latino immigration issues to another bill has not diminished
their volatility in an election year. The two parties continued to snipe at each
other Tuesday on both the H-1B visa and Latino issues. The H-1B legislation
could get stalled in the House if Democrats attempt to use the debate to press
their Latino cause.

Both sides have accused the other of trying to play politics with the issue.
Republicans feared Democratic grandstanding during the debate on the H-1B visa
legislation, trying to portray the GOP as unconcerned with Latino issues.
Democrats countered that Republicans are afraid to allow votes on the Latino
issues because many of the party's members oppose them at a time when GOP
presidential nominee George W. Bush is trying to court the Latino vote.

The provisions, known as the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act, would extend a
current immigration amnesty provision for Nicaraguans and Cubans to others from
Latin America, as well as offering so-called "late amnesty" to illegal
immigrants who entered the United States before 1986. A similar amnesty was
passed in the 1980s for people who had entered the country before 1972, allowing
them to apply to become U.S. citizens. Latino members of Congress have been
pressing the issues for several years.

Both parties are feeling the pressure of heavy lobbying by the high-tech
industry on the H-1B visa bill. Several high-tech and business organizations
have said they will count even procedural votes to bring the H-1B visa bill up
for consideration as key votes in their annual high-tech scorecards, which many
companies use to determine which candidates get contributions from their
political action committees.

High-tech lobby

Lott pressed forward with the procedural vote Tuesday, with another procedural
vote to come and a vote on final passage anticipated in the next few days.
Despite their intention to move the Latino issues, Senate Democratssaid they
have not given up trying to attach them as amendments to the H-1B visa bill and
were still trying Tuesday to do that.

"The high-tech industry is going to know if the Senate Democrats are for this
bill or not," Lott said, charging that Democrats have been responsible for the
months of delays since the bill overwhelmingly cleared a Senate committee last
spring. "They're not going to be able to drag it out indefinitely or kill it by
side amendments."

But Democrats countered that Republicans have been the ones hesitant to press
forward with a vote.

"They just don't want to admit that they oppose the Latino and Immigrant
Fairness Act," said Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D. "Republicans
would rather risk delaying passage of the H-1B bill than vote for the Latino and
Immigrant Fairness Act or risk the political consequences of voting against it.
High tech is not the only industry in our nation struggling with worker
shortages. All across America restaurants, hotels nursing homes are in desperate
need of help."

House debate

While the Senate will vote shortly, it's unclear if the legislation will get a
separate vote in the House, where Republicans remain concerned that Democrats
will attempt to make political hay out of the Latino issues when debating the
H-1B visa bill.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, a co-sponsor of H-1B visa legislation in the
House, said some Democrats are likely to bring up the Latino issues during the
H-1B visa debate.

"You can't deny the Hispanic Caucus the right to discuss their No. 1 agenda item
for the last four years," she said.

Republican leaders in the House might wait and try to include the H-1B visa
provisions in a final omnibus budget bill at the end of the session next month,
which would mean there would be little if any debate on it.

Rep. David Dreier, R-Covina, who co-sponsored the H-1B visa legislation with
Lofgren, said the tone set in the Senate this week will impact House
consideration of the bill.

"I look forward to seeing if Democrats can drop their partisan attacks in the
Senate and truly pass a bipartisan bill," he said. "If they can, I'm confident
we'll be able to move in the House."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 19, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN WORKERS FORM NETWORK TO LOBBY CONGRESS FOR RELIEF

BYLINE: PETE CAREY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 389 words


In a meeting hall in Sunnyvale early this summer, about 50 high-tech workers on
H-1B visas listened to an Indian software engineer explain why they had
gathered: green cards and red tape.

It was the beginning of Silicon Valley's part in a short, furious, lobbying
campaign by the Immigrants Support Network, a grass-roots organization of H-1B
programmers that now claims a national membership of 15,000. The network came
out of nowhere this year to blitz Congress for relief for H-1B workers, whom it
described as "indentured servants" and slaves of the backlogged green-card
process. The campaign ended in October when Congress passed legislation that
should make it easier for H-1B workers to become permanent U.S. residents.

Murali Krishna Devarakonda, the 33-year-old software engineer, defined the
problem: The H-1B visa was good only for six years, and it was taking at least
that long for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to process
applications for green cards.

Many people raised their hands when Devarakonda asked how many were soon going
to have to leave the United States before they received their green cards.

"The green card is like an hourglass filling up, and the H1-B is a clock running
fast," Devarakonda said. "You get laid off, turn the hourglass over and start
again. If your company is in trouble, even though you are the hotshot, you still
get laid off because you are here on an H-1B. Is this what we deserve?"

"No!" the crowd of H-1B workers cried.

By early October, the organization was counting its successes. Congress not only
raised the cap on visas, it also broadened its legislation to include various
revisions that should make it easier for H-1B workers to change employers and
apply for green cards.

"It's a good time to celebrate," Devarakonda said Oct. 4, after Congress passed
the
legislation.

The network intends to monitor the INS to make sure it implements the new
regulations, he said. It will follow issues that are still unresolved concerning
spouses of H-1B workers and workers who are not pursuing green cards.

In the long run, the group wants H-1B tech workers to become automatically
eligible for green cards after three years.

At the moment, though, the group has raised only about $73,000 from 986members
to pay for its lobbying campaign.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The Immigrants Support Network has a Web site at www.isn.orgThe H-1B Boom
See related stories : Pages 1A and 15A-16A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE - MERCURY NEWS
Outside an Indian temple in Sunnyvale, Murali Krishna Devarakonda, with arm
outstretched, urges H-1B workers to join the Immigrants Support Network.
[001119 FR 15A]
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE - MERCURY NEWS
Varsha Joglekar, whose husband works in high tech, signs up to join the
Immigrants Support Network. The group advocates relief for H-1B workers, whom it
described as "indentured servants."
[001119 FR 15A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 25, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B VISAS BRING MORE IMMIGRANTS, BRAIN POWER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 456 words


I read your front page articles on the presumed shortcomings of the work visa
system (Page 1A, Nov. 19-20). I would have laughed, had I not been so
disheartened.

The population of the United States has already exceeded sustainable levels. If
U.S. population growth is not curbed before non-renewable energy sources run
out, our descendants will face some hard realities, and the dramaticlowering of
standards of living that will result.

However, population stress is not just a problem relegated to the distant future
or to a macroscopic national perspective. It is an issue that each of us living
in the Bay Area deals with every day. Our quality of life is assaulted on
numerous fronts. Jammed freeways, increased valley smog, overburdened
infrastructure, ridiculously priced real estate, and near-zero vacancy rates are
not merely signs of a booming economy; they are signs of overcrowding.

Immigration and high rates of births to recent immigrants are exacerbating the
problem by contributing to the overwhelming majority of population growth in the
U.S. and to Bay Area growth. At current immigration levels, the U.S. population
will pass 400 million in 2050. If immigration rates increase, the situation
could be even more dire.

Certainly high-tech corporations need skilled workers. By reducing immigration,
however, we can make these companies look solely within the United States for
their talent. Educational quality and opportunity within our country would
improve if large corporations were forced to take a longer term view by
providing much-needed scholarships and funding.

As long as the Mercury News and large corporations push for and obtain increased
immigration levels, we can all look forward to a reduction in our quality of
life.

Charles Shereda
Belmont
YOUR recent articles on H-1B visas and related issues presented an extremely
one-sided picture of the situation in India. While there is no question that the
process is abused and misused, your articles seems to suggest there is huge
fraud.

This obviously is not true. Just as in every other thing in life, this too has
exceptions. Your article and pictures painted only part of the picture. Why did
you show the colleges and schools where people like me were trained? In these
schools in India, sixth and seventh grade students are exposed to PCs and
programming.

The economy of the Bay Area has benefited tremendously from the H-1B visa
program. There will be abuse of any system anywhere in the world. It's just that
in places such as India and China, which have a billion people each, the number
of fraud cases will be much higher. To highlight this and say this is the norm
is rather myopic.

Vinayak H. Satyanarayan
Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 11, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION FLOW COULD CHANGE WITH A GUEST-WORKER PACT U.S. SENATORS MEET WITH
MEXICAN LEADERS TO DISCUSS CHANGES IN BORDER POLICIES

BYLINE: MORRIS THOMPSON, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 655 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


The United States and Mexico could agree on a guest-worker program within about
a year, a group of U.S. senators predicted Wednesday, in what would amount to a
major change in the contentious immigration relationship between the neighboring
nations.

Such a program could give up to 8 million undocumented Mexicans in the United
States the same rights as U.S. workers, said Senate Banking Committee Chairman
Phil Gramm, R-Texas, who headed the delegation to Mexico City. He said a law
probably would link the numbers of Mexican workers who could be admitted to the
U.S. unemployment rate, reducing immigrant workers when U.S. unemployment rose
and allowing more in when jobs were plentiful.

"I think we have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to get this done," Gramm said,
noting that both countries will have new presidents and congresses.

Change in leadership

Gramm conceded that a guest-worker program wouldn't face easy approval by the
U.S. Congress. But he said he thinks President-elect George W. Bush and Mexican
President Vicente Fox will agree on an approach that both legislatures could
support, because it would benefit both countries.

"This is a tough nut we're talking about right now," said Sen. Jim Bunning,
R-Ky., agreeing that such a program is possible and desirable.

The delegation included Sens. Zell Miller, D-Ga., Mike Crapo, R-Idaho, and Pete
Domenici, R-N.M., Senate Budget Committee chairman. The group met with Fox,
several members of his Cabinet, members of the Mexican Congress and U.S.
Ambassador Jeffrey Davidow.

The senators said they talked with Fox in general terms about how to cover
Mexican workers under U.S. labor laws, including minimum wage, and how to steer
Social Security payments to emergency medical-care coverage. They said a
guest-worker program ultimately would encourage the workers to return to Mexico,
taking needed skills and capital with them.

Gramm said such a program would reduce illegal immigration to the United States
by removing "the magnet" of illegal employment.

"What we've got to find out first is what the reality is in the country," Gramm
said. "Whether it's a small town in Georgia or a small town in Kentucky, you see
illegal workers everywhere."

Gramm said he would brief Bush on the group's conversations here and begin
informal meetings in the U.S. Senate next week on principles for such a program.
He said the two countries' presidents should meet to agree on a guest-worker
plan, and that he thinks one will be enacted within a year.

"The bottom line is we have millions of people who are working illegally in
America; they do not have legal protections," Gramm said. "They are vital to our
economy, yet they are violating our laws."

An existing guest-worker program in agriculture, Gramm said, is "irrelevant to
the reality." He said Texas has about 500 legal workers under that program, but
perhaps 1.5 million undocumented Mexican workers.

The senators noted that no one knows exactly how many undocumented Mexicans are
in the United States, but that a guest-worker program almost surely would allow
those already in the country to apply.

Drug and felon policies

Gramm also said he thinks the U.S. Congress will agree to end its annual process
of certifying that Mexico is a good partner in the war against drugs as a
condition for aid, which long has angered Mexico. Gramm said the program, which
Fox pledged to oppose in last year's election campaign, was "a bad idea" that
was "stupid and hasn't worked."

Domenici said he suggested to Fox that it would be a useful gesture to extradite
felons sought by U.S. authorities. Mexico's Constitution prohibits the
extradition of citizens to a place where they might face capital punishment.

Fox issued a statement Wednesday saying the two countries should strengthen
their cooperation in the drug war. He characterized the meetings with the U.S.
lawmakers as "constructive."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MARCO UGARTE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, says a guest-worker program could give millions of
undocumented Mexicans in the United States more rights.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 15, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOWNTURN HITS HOLDERS OF H-1B VISAS IMMIGRANTS WORRY AS TECH MARKET SAGS THEY
WERE HOT COMMODITIES JUST A FEW MONTHS AGO, BUT AFTER LEAVING THEIR COUNTRIES,
MANY SKILLED HIGH-TECH WORKERS ARE NOW 'ON THE BENCH,' WAITING FOR JOBS.

BYLINE: SARAH LUBMAN AND MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1387 words


Less than six months ago, the technology industry pressured Congress to nearly
double the number of H-1B visas for skilled foreign workers. Now, growing
numbers of those visa holders are sitting idle for months or even going back
home, victims of the tech downturn.

Hard data isn't available, but anecdotal evidence in Silicon Valley shows that
demand has slowed dramatically for many of the people for whom the tech industry
had clamored.

Manohar Kuvvuru, a database developer, is one of them. Although he's getting his
full salary and benefits, his company hasn't been able to place him on a project
since Jan. 10.

"I'm keeping my fingers crossed," said Kuvvuru, a 26-year-old native of
Hyderabad, India, employed by CompuWizards Staffing International in Walnut
Creek. "I don't know, when it comes to economics, whether I'll have to go back."

But Kuvvuru is one of the lucky ones sitting "on the bench," industry parlance
for being between temporary assignments. Other H-1B workers in similar straits
are getting low -- and illegal -- weekly stipends from strapped high-tech
staffing companies that are grappling with a sudden dip in demand, especially
for Web-related skills. In some cases, workers are being laid off or returning
to India, which dominates the high-tech portion of the nation's H-1B workforce.

Last October, Congress increased the annual cap on the number of skilled-worker
visas to 195,000 from 115,000 through 2003. In the past, the annual cap has been
reached long before the end of the fiscal year. Statistics from the Immigration
and Naturalization Service on how quickly the cap is being reached this year
won't be released until Friday. Up to 100,000 H-1B workers live in Northern
California today.

Broad range of impact

The impact of the slowdown isn't across the board. At the top of the H-1B food
chain are highly skilled scientists and engineers with U.S. master's and
doctoral degrees, and big employers such as Cisco Systems Inc. and
Hewlett-Packard Corp. say they are still in demand and haven't been affected by
layoffs.

But further down the chain, lower-level programmers who do contract work for
tech companies through go-betweens are hurting as their hourly billing rates
have dropped by as much as 50 percent.

Cisco recently announced that it would terminate 2,500 to 3,000 temporary and
contract workers, and "it's likely that will involve H-1B workers," saidKent
Jenkins Jr., a Cisco official. He said Wednesday that he couldn't estimate the
number.

Among the valley's less-fortunate H-1B workers are Kumar Vel, Zakir Hussein and
Sarju Patel. They work for the same San Jose job-placement firm, and all three
are idle -- and underpaid.

Instead of the $5,000 to $6,500 a month they're supposed to get for working on a
project, each says he's being paid only a $1,000 monthly stipend, which violates
U.S. labor regulations. The three live with two other software engineers in a
three-bedroom Fremont apartment leased by their company, which they declined to
name.

"We're very scared," said Vel, 25, as he and his colleagues headed toward a
Fremont bus station to catch a bus to San Jose. "Personally, my feeling is that
this is not OK."

Vel doesn't blame his company, which he said is suffering in the current
economic climate.

But he's upset: He came to the United States from Chennai, India, to earn a lot
of money, not $250 a week.

New arrivals suffering

Vel and Hussein, programmers who arrived in Silicon Valley just three weeks ago,
have known only the bench. Patel, a database administrator, came last October,
but after working on a project with a Redwood City client for three months, he's
been on the bench ever since.

If they quit within one year of joining their company, their contract demands
that they pay a penalty of a few thousand dollars.

"I don't have a choice," said Vel, who believes he can't transfer to another
company. "One choice is there. I can go back to India. That is one choice, a bad
choice."

At Applisoft Inc., a consulting and tech-placement firm in Saratoga, 10 of its
100 employees have been idle for two to three months. Half of those idled
workers chose to return to India a few weeks ago to get retrained on lower
salaries until Applisoft can place them again, perhaps as Unix and systems
programmers.

"If the guys have been sitting on the bench for too long, there's no market for
him or her, we give them the option to get retrained, and while they get trained
we don't have to pay them high U.S. salaries," said Sarvajit Thakur, chief
executive officer of Applisoft, which was acquired recently by Trigyn
Technologies Limited, a larger company with offices on several continents. "They
would be on a leave back to India."

Thakur said the hourly billing rates for Internet-related positions such as Java
developers have dropped anywhere from 25 percent to 50 percent, a figure echoed
by employees at six other companies that place H-1B workers.

Consultants' rates drop

Madhavi Manmadkar, research manager at CompuWizards, said rates had plummeted
for consultants who are marketed to other subcontractors.

"Java developers used to float in the market at around $65 to $70 for
third-party people," she said, referring to hourly rates. "Right now the market
rate is $40. That's just ridiculous. I can't send my own consultant at $40."

For firms that bill directly, rates have dropped from over $100 an hour to as
low as $50 to $60 an hour, people in the industry say.

CompuWizards normally has 10 to 12 people idle between projects for a few weeks
at a time. Now, around a quarter of its 100-odd consultants have been idle for
more than a month, Manmadkar said.

"I'm waiting to hear from the clients: 'OK, we're ready to hire now,' " she
said.

The slowdown has cast a pall of fear over many of Silicon Valley's H-1B visa
holders, particularly those working for intermediaries. Confusion over the
complicated visa laws has thrown some workers into a panic. Many H-1B workers
interviewed by the Mercury News weren't sure whether they had 10 days, 45 days
or three months to find a new job before facing a penalty.

The answer is 10 days after termination, although workers are free to transfer
their visas to another company before that if they find work.Technically, H-1B
workers lose their visa status if they don't find a job after 10 days, and risk
being barred from the United States for up to 10 years if they keep working
here.

Some people feel that the quirks of the H-1B visa punish those who fueled the
technology boom.

"We wanted resources because of the economic boom, and now that it is slowing
down, we need to help them at least by extending the period," said Raj
Dhamodharan, an H-1B holder and vice president of engineering for Fremont-based
Think Business Networks. "Ten days is not very practical."

In practice, though, many placement firms don't notify the INS when they lay off
H-1B workers, according to Hemant Habbu, a San Jose immigration attorney. Most
transfer their visas or go to welcoming countries like Canada.

Critics of the skilled-worker visa program say idle H-1B workers prove their
contention that tech companies just want them because they're cheap and
disposable, not because they're scarce.

"Employers see no social cost of dumping them as soon as there's an economic
downturn," said Dave Ray, a representative of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

But Laura Ipsen, Cisco's worldwide director of government affairs, said the
industry has always regarded H-1B visas as a short-term fix for a long-term
problem. "We're in the lull in the economy, but we'll get out of this, I hope,
and we'll be looking for those highly skilled engineers," she said.

And not everyone is hurting. Michael Logvinov, a 24-year-old Russian technical
manager here on an H-1B visa, said he didn't have any problem finding another
job when his previous employer, a start-up company, ran out of money.

"There are a lot of super-intelligent guys who don't know how to present
themselves," he said. "Fifty percent of the unsuccessful ones are based on
that."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
H-1B VISA LIMITS
[Chart not in database]
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: H-1B SLOWDOWN
H-1B visas allow skilled workers to remain in the United States temporarily.
They last three years and can be renewed. Last year, about 420,000 H-1B workers
were in the country, and as many as half are computer specialists.
* Some H-1B visa holders have decided to return to India for retraining at lower
salaries.
* The number of visa holders waiting for contract work has doubled at some
companies, leaving as many as 25 percent of their employees idle.
* Hourly rates for visa holders with Web-related skills have dropped 25 to 50
percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 22, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PANEL URGES BOOST IN HIGH-TECH VISAS

BYLINE: HEATHER FLEMING PHILLIPS, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Even as Silicon Valley companies lay off thousands of employees amid an economic
slowdown, a report issued Wednesday by the Committee for Economic Development
calls for doubling the number of highly skilled permanent foreign workers
admitted to the United States each year.

The committee, a New York-based group made up of business leaders and university
presidents, says that U.S. jobs for skilled workers will continue to exceed
supply because the number of people 65 and over will significantly increase over
the next 20 years. The aging population will exacerbate the labor shortage as
industry demands an increasingly skilled labor force, they say.

The report came a day after the Immigration and Naturalization Service released
figures suggesting that demand for H-1B visas, special temporary visas set aside
for highly skilled foreign workers, may be waning. The agency reported only half
as many filings for H-1B visas in February compared with a year ago.

Less than six months ago, Congress passed a law nearly doubling the number of
H-1B workers admitted to the country. The high-tech industry had been clamoring
for the increase, saying they desperately needed additional engineers and
software programmers. CED says the problems with the immigration system for
permanent worker visas are placing burdens on the H-1B system for temporary
visas.

The group says inefficiencies and mismanagement of the INS are the key problems
with the current system. CED suggested that INS be split in two -- one unit for
the enforcement branch and the other to process immigration requests.

"The immigration policy of the U.S. does not reflect what the American business
community is requiring," said Shelly Jones, co-author of the report and managing
director of the executive search firm Korn/Ferry International.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, and the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary
Committee's immigration subcommittee, said she doubted that dividing INS's
responsibilities would solve the problem.

"We could end up with two dysfunctional agencies instead of one," she said.

The report also calls for placing greater emphasis on immigrants with higher
levels of education and skills by increasing the number of skill-based visas
relative to other visa categories, and requiring relatives of immigrants to have
special skills. While industry groups continue to push for more foreign workers,
groups representing U.S. engineers and computer scientists say the companies are
interested in recruiting workers overseas to keep wages artificially low for
skilled U.S. citizens.

"The report merely repeats the errors and myths of the various pro-industry
reports . . . which falsely claim a 'need' for importing programmers and
engineers from abroad," said Norm Matloff, a computer scienceprofessor at
University of California-Davis who has written extensively on immigration
issues. He also blasted efforts to create a "designer immigration" system.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 15, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE: DEPORT EX-NAZI GUARD

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 97 words


An immigration judge ruled Monday that a retired auto mechanic in New York
served the Nazis as a concentration camp guard during World War II and ordered
him deported, the Justice Department said.

Michael Gruber, 84, of New City, N.Y., had admitted serving as an armed Waffen
SS guard in Oranienburg, Germany, but denied any knowledge of the Sachsenhausen
concentration camp there, the department said.

Gruber immigrated to the United States in 1956 but is a citizen of Austria. The
government said it would seek to deport him to Austria, which must agree to
accept him.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 26, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER NEWS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 100 words

* An immigration service crackdown focusing on airports and immigrant
"drophouses" in Phoenix and Las Vegas has led to the arrest of 15 suspected
smugglers and the capture of more than 1,000 illegal immigrants, officials said
Friday.

* Daniel Wiant, a former American Cancer Society executive, pleaded guilty
Friday in Columbus, Ohio, to embezzling nearly $8 million from the charity. No
sentencing date was set.

* A man who said he killed a woman to satisfy an urge to kill was executed by
injection Friday in Starke, Fla. Dan Patrick Hauser said nothing before his
execution began.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 1, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EXTORTION SUSPECT IS ARRESTED

BYLINE: THE MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 174 words


A 42-year-old San Jose man who police said posed as an immigration worker in an
extortion scheme that bilked four people out of $15,000 was arrested late
Wednesday night.

San Jose police Sgt. Steve Dixon said Thursday that Carlos Gutierrez Bolanos
allegedly told at least four people that he worked for, or had connections with,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. And, for a fee, he could help speed
up the paperwork they needed to become legal U.S. citizens.

One victim, a 50-year-old San Jose man, told police he paid the suspect $6,000
to help along citizenship paperwork for himself, his wife and children. He
notified police after the suspect demanded more money, then threatened to kill
him when he refused to pay.

Police said there were at least three more victims, including two sisters who
claim they paid the suspect $4,500 each.

Bolanos, a janitor who has the alias "Miguel," faces felony charges that include
extortion, grand theft, terrorist threats and robbery. He is to be arraigned
Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 4, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TEAMSTERS PUT NEW FOCUS ON IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: [Mercury News Staff Writer John Hubner]

SECTION: BUSINESS MONDAY; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1095 words


In a major policy shift, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters is reaching
out to foreign-born workers. James P. Hoffa, the Teamsters' president, recently
visited the Bay Area to lend support to a new union-funded program helping
Hispanic workers become U.S. citizens. Hoffa's support for the program marks a
sea change for the Teamsters, more commonly associated with support for
U.S.-born workers.

Son of legendary Teamsters leader James R. Hoffa, the younger Hoffa took the
helm of the 1.5 million-member organization in 1999. Mercury News Staff Writer
John Hubner talked to Hoffa at the Fairmont Hotel in San Jose. Hoffa chose the
place; some hotel employees are Teamsters members.

Q
How did you come to focus on immigration?

A
Immigration goes along with our strikes at Basic Vegetable and Diamond Walnut.
Both involve many Hispanic workers. It's an evolution of thinking about
immigration and how we have to recognize that people who come to this country
are being exploited and that they should have a right to join unions. What
highlighted it was an incident in Minneapolis, where people tried to organize
hotel and restaurant workers. There were large groups of people. Many of them
were Hispanics or foreign-born people. When they got their union cards and went
down to the National Labor Relations Board office, the employer, feeling that
many of these people didn't have proper papers, called the INS and had them
arrested. So that's kind of a microcosm of how people are being exploited in
this country.

Q
So how have your views on immigration changed?

A
It's a softening or changing of the policy of the AFL-CIO. The AFL-CIO, and all
of organized labor, used to take the position that illegal immigrantscoming here
put undue pressure on wages because they work cheaper, obviously because of
their status and stuff like that.

The evolution has been that there are so many people here now. They're not just
people who came across yesterday. They're people who have been here 10 years,
who are raising their families here. They have a house next to you. And they're
being exploited. So there has been an evolution of the thinking.

We want to encourage people who are here legally to become citizens of this
country. The project we're supporting teaches them language skills, computer
skills and civics so that they can pass the citizenship test. The citizenship
program (spearheaded by Teamsters Local Union 890 in Salinas) recruited over
10,000 people to participate in its program, and we gave money. We gave $15,000
to that program and another $5,000 to a program called Vote.

Q
Do you think that the best thing that could happen to labor unions is if you
were able to organize across national borders?

A
Evidently, this was left out of NAFTA. The Teamsters don't have the right to go
to Monterrey (Mexico), set up an office and start organizing. I think that's
something that must be changed. Probably one of the most innovative things that
I have heard from Ralph Nader was we should send a notice to Mexico. He said
that there is a six-month escape provision for NAFTA. He said we should send a
notice and tell them that we're canceling the agreement. (Laughter.)

I think NAFTA hurts America. There's literally millions of jobs that left this
country. Mr. Coffee left. Thousands of manufacturing jobs left. There's
something wrong. Globalization is not about plants closing in America and moving
out, but that's what it's become.

Q
How did unions get left out of NAFTA?

A
They never were consulted. It was a Big Business deal. We were never part of it.
Nor were we part of the China deal.

Q
But we had a Democratic president in office.

A
We differ with Bush, Gore and Clinton with regard to trade. We agree with them
on many issues, but we think they are completely misguided on trade.

Q
And you like Nader?

A
I like Nader. We ruled him out. We're mainstreamers. We've ruled out Pat
Buchanan and we ruled out Nader, so we've narrowed down the field to two.

Q
When will you announce which presidential candidate the Teamsters will endorse?

A
Right after Labor Day. We're polling our members.

Q
What's your view on H-1B visas?

A
We're against them. It ties you to one employer. If you get out of line, they
send you back. They have gone from 50,000 to 100,000 to 150,000 visas. Now,
they're going for 250,000 visas. They keep on telling me we can't get guys to do
these jobs, that no Americans will do them, which is absolutely untrue. The
truth is these visas give businesses a pool of people who work under scale, who
get no benefits, who get nothing. Anything that ties somebody to one employer,
that indentures somebody, we are against.

Q
Are you planning to meet with Mexico's new president, Vicente Fox? What will you
talk about?

A
We're working on a meeting with President Fox. We want to talk about the border.
We want to talk about cross-border trucking. We want to talk about many issues
of common interest. There are probably areas we don't agree on, but I think we
should know each other and have a good, open dialogue.

Q
Are you concerned that workers at American-owned factories in Mexico still don't
earn enough to purchase American goods?

A
NAFTA was sold to us with the argument that it would create markets for American
goods in Mexico. That's not what's happened. What's happened with NAFTA is
American companies have moved to Mexico to ship back finished goods across the
country into the richest economy in the world. The basic standard of living in
Mexico is so low that they can't afford our consumer goods and that's a problem.
It's the same thing in China. The peasants are not going to buy our cars.
They're not going to be buying anything.

We did everything we could to say China is not a country we should have
permanent trade agreements with. We lobbied. We had rallies. The Teamsters did
everything and it was for a number of reasons: because they oppress their
people; because they oppress Tibet; because they threaten Taiwan; because they
export missiles and methods of mass destruction; and because they have a
terrible record for the way they treat their workers, which is the biggest focus
for us.

But no matter what we did, we couldn't get that message across and PNTR
(permanent normal trade relations) went through. It's not through yet, but it's
eventually going to get through the Senate. I guess we have to work through the
system, but we will not stop talking about these issues, that these agreements
favor totalitarian countries.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Q&A : ON GOALS OF ORGANIZED LABOR

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SPECIAL TO THE MERCURY NEWS
James P. Hoffa is president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
[000904 BM 1E]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 4, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL AIMS AT IMMIGRATION PREDATORS ON DAVIS' DESK:CONSULTANTS WOULD HAVE TO
DISPLAY CREDENTIALS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA


A bill before Gov. Gray Davis takes aim at illicit immigration consultants who
take advantage of those seeking permanent U.S. residency.

The bill approved last week would require consultants to display credentials --
such as proof of membership in the State Bar of California -- in most
advertising. It also would increase fines to a maximum $100,000 from the current
$10,000.

Many immigrants fall prey to questionable consultants -- known as notariosin
Spanish, di tru or dich vu in Vietnamese, and baroka in Korean.

Legal entry into the United States is difficult, with waiting periods decades
long. To be admitted into America this year, Mexican siblings of U.S. citizens
needed to apply for residency by 1989. Filipino siblings needed to apply by
1979.

"Everyone listens to the rumors and the scuttlebutt, and it's just absolute
lies," said immigration attorney Kathryn Terry. "They're just so desperate,
vulnerable and they want to believe it so bad."

Terry is urging Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckus to form a task
force similar to one in Los Angeles focused on immigration fraud.

Rackauckus has said he has no plans to form a special task force but said he is
publicizing the problem in Spanish media. The county's top prosecutor insists
that when his office gets a provable case, it will be prosecuted.

Illicit consultants prey on all migrant groups, bilking clients out of thousands
of dollars, then providing no service.

Immigrants also fall victim to language nuances such as the difference between a
notary and a notario.

Such was the case for Luis Garza Espinosa.

Unlike a U.S. notary public -- who is licensed only to authenticate signatures
-- in Mexico, a notario is an elite attorney. So Espinosa thought nothing of it
when he hired a "notario" to apply for U.S. residency for his Mexican wife.

"I had heard that there was a really good attorney who really helped
immigrants," the El Salvador man said. "But when I went to this guy, he just
kept asking for more money every time I visited him. I kept giving it to him
because I thought he needed it, and I thought he was doing something to help
me."

Espinosa, 54, a grocery warehouse worker, never received letters or receipts
from the Immigration and Naturalization Service despite paying the notary $700.

Even after losing money, many immigrants are reluctant to report their problems
due to embarrassment and fear of jeopardizing their own residency.

INS Officer-in-Charge John Brechtel in Orange County said illegal immigrants
caught in fraudulent schemes, even if they were misled, can be deported.

Police are often reluctant to pursue immigration scams.

Westminster police detective Tim Vu, a fraud specialist, said, "It's hard to
prove an intent to defraud. The consultants might have a license."

"Then it boils down to he-said, she-said," Vu added.

Vu recommends immigrants ask for credentials, check a consultant's business
history, and never pay cash before services are performed.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 5, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IOWA'S GOVERNOR SEEKS IMMIGRANTS TO BEEF UP STATE SOME RESIDENTS FEAR PROPOSAL
TO BRING IN NEW RESIDENTS WOULD TAKE AWAY OTHERS' JOBS

BYLINE: DAVID PITT, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 732 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Iowa


Iowa needs people. Its aging workers are retiring in droves and its young people
are heading elsewhere for better jobs.

So, in a pitch echoing the words of poet Emma Lazarus, who spoke of welcoming
the world's "huddled masses," Gov. Tom Vilsack wants to aggressively recruit
immigrants to settle in Iowa.

"There are people all over the world who are suffering, some from famine, some
are orphaned as a result of disease or war, and there are still people being
persecuted because of their religious beliefs," Vilsack said. "In this state, we
have a tradition of opening our hearts and homes to people in those kinds of
situations."

The first-term Democrat's Iowa 2010 strategy, developed by a team of business
and civic leaders, calls for an additional 310,000 workers by 2010. He may need
to ask the federal government to designate Iowa an "immigration enterprise zone"
that would provide exemptions to immigration quotas.

With an unemployment rate of 2 percent, nearly every employable worker in Iowa
already has a job.

But opponents of the governor's plan fear immigrants would take jobs from people
already there.

"We don't give the American worker the opportunity to learn that job. We just
bring somebody in from the outside and bring them in cheap," said Mark Smith,
president of the Iowa Federation of Labor. "That's what it really comes down to,
bringing them in cheap."

And a majority of Iowans say they don't want the state to encourage immigrants,
according to a poll in the Des Moines Sunday Register. It said 58 percent of
respondents said they would oppose a policy of encouraging immigration, while 34
percent approved; the rest weren't sure. The poll, conducted over eight days
ending Wednesday, has a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points.

Ana Maria Sequra, a 19-year-old from Guadalajara, Mexico, likes living in Iowa.
"It's very tranquil, peaceful here," she said through an interpreter.

She has helped run her brother's grocery store in Ottumwa, a southern Iowa
community of 27,000, for more than a year.

But in a predominantly English-speaking state that's 96 percent white, she still
speaks little English and occasionally has trouble with Iowans.

"Sometimes they are difficult to get along with and I'm not sure what it's all
about," she said. "I wonder if they have racist thoughts."

Ottumwa Mayor Dale Uehling said more than 400 immigrant workers have brought
families to his city in recent months to work at the Excel Inc. pork processing
plant. That created challenges for housing, schools, public health and other
agencies and services.

"What I keep on stressing is that integrating the new cultures into the
community is very critical," he said.

The state will need to prepare communities to handle immigrants' basic needs,
said Sister Irene Munoz, a Roman Catholic nun in Ottumwa.

"They're looking for food, shelter, pots and pans, sheets, winter clothing and
children's clothing," she said.

Munoz said she has experienced uncomfortable stares and long waits at store
counters.

"It's easy to instantly think you're being singled out because you're
different," she said. "I think there are some rumblings under the surface and
people say things here or there."

Iowa's population problems began 20 years ago when a recession led to farm
foreclosures and foundering factories. Fewer jobs meant graduates left to find
work elsewhere.

"That had a profound effect in the decade that followed. We were left without
those young folks entering the work force," said State Economist Harvey
Siegelman.

Over the past year, the state has held receptions in New York, Los Angeles, San
Diego and Chicago inviting native Iowans who left to return home.

Iowa was one of only two states -- West Virginia was the other -- recording
population declines from 1980 to 1990, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The
bureau estimates that Iowa reversed the trend by growing 3.3 percent from 1990
through mid-1999.

The Iowa Workforce Development Center projects that the state will see a growth
of 56,750 jobs a year through 2006.

"If every single graduating high school senior stayed in Iowa, we would still
have a labor shortage," Vilsack said.

CHART: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Iowa's waning workforce
Sources: Iowa Workforce Development Center; Census Bureau
[Chart not taken in the database]

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: CHARLIE NEIBERGALL -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sister Irene Munoz discusses Spanish interpreters with elementary school
principal Kevin Fangman in Ottumwa, Iowa, on Thursday.
[000905 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 8, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EASING INTERNATIONAL COMMUTE AUTOMATION EASES BORDER TRAFFIC

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Abigail Fuentes spent 25 minutes waiting to cross the U.S.-Mexico border
Thursday and considered herself lucky.

"I've spent an hour, sometimes more sitting in this traffic. It's the worst,"
said Fuentes, who lives in San Diego but crosses the border almost daily to
visit relatives in Tijuana.

Those long waits should be ending for thousands who regularly drive through the
world's busiest border. A new automated commuter lane will cut to just two or
three minutes the time it takes pre-screened drivers to cross, U.S. and Mexican
officials said Thursday.

The commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, Doris
Meissner, was chauffeured through the new commuter lane in a red convertible
Chrysler to inaugurate a program already in use in El Paso and at the Otay Mesa
crossing east of San Diego.

Commuters were expected to begin using the lane -- after paying the annual fee
of $129 and passing an FBI background check -- later in the day. There's
nocharge to cross in the regular lanes.

The commuter lane represents a bi-national effort to ease traffic congestion at
the border without sacrificing efforts to prevent illegal immigrants and
contraband from entering the country, Meissner told reporters at a news
conference.

"The vast majority of people who use this port of entry are law abiding and we
want to facilitate their crossing," she said.

Each weekday, an average of 42,000 cars and 30,000 pedestrians cross from
Tijuana to San Diego through the San Ysidro Port of Entry. The number of cars
swells to 65,000 on Saturdays and Sundays and holidays can bring twice as many,
according to the U.S. Customs Service.

Reduce pressure

Commuters, shoppers, tourists and employees of border businesses make up the
majority of crossers, but San Diego is also a major center for drug smuggling as
well. Even as Meissner spoke, Customs agents were stopping a 1991 Mitsubishi
with 74 pounds of marijuana in the tires.

So far, about 3,300 have signed up to use the commuter lane. After 6,000 enroll,
U.S. authorities plan to open a second lane. INS officials expect about 12,000
will use the program.

One important and immediate effect will be to reduce the pressure on the 22
other lanes of traffic at the border crossing, Tijuana Mayor Francisco Vega
said.

Other Mexican officials said the automated lane is also an important symbol of
cooperation between two nations. "It's a recognition of the shared interests of
people on both sides of the border," said Juan Rebolledo, Mexico's
undersecretary of foreign affairs for North America.

The new express lane works like a more advanced version of automatic toll
systems used on bridges around the country. When an enrolled vehicle approaches
the border, it sends a signal to an inspector in the immigration booth and calls
up a background file from a database.

A photo of everyone authorized to cross in that car appears on a screen in the
booth and the inspector can choose to stop the motorist for questioning or send
them to a secondary inspection area. Drivers must swipe a card through a scanner
as a final step to entry.

Most motorists will pass through without a pause, but cars will be randomly
searched for contraband, said Robert Mocny, an INS special assistant who helped
design the program.

Few rejections

No drugs or illegal immigrants have been found in the commuter lanes at El Paso
or Otay Mesa, although several hundred applicants were rejected because of
smuggling convictions, he said.

Of the 3,300 who have enrolled so far, about 70 percent are American citizens
and 30 percent are Mexicans with visas to enter the country. The government can
waive the fee in cases of economic necessity and may reduce it as more people
enroll, INS officials said.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DENIS POROY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner and Mexican
Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs Juan Rebolledo inaugurate new automated lane
at San Ysidro border crossing in San Diego.
[000908 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 17, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEARFUL OF PRI, MEXICAN WITNESS REQUESTS ASYLUM MAN SAYS HE WITNESSED 1994
ASSASSINATION

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A man who says he witnessed the assassination of the leading Mexican
presidential candidate in 1994 has requested asylum in the United States, saying
his life would be in danger if he returned to Mexico, the New York Times
reported Saturday.

Jorge Amaral Munoz, 39, is jailed in Detroit awaiting his appeal of an
immigration judge's ruling last winter that he did not qualify for asylum
because he had not demonstrated political repression, the newspaper said.

Amaral has been charged in Mexico with making false statements to judicial
authorities and most likely would be jailed if he is returned, it said.

In Washington, Immigration and Naturalization Service official Nicole Chulic
said Saturday that it was agency policy not to comment on asylum cases.

Amaral told the Times he witnessed the shooting in Tijuana of Luis Donaldo
Colosio, the then-presidential candidate of the Institutional Revolutionary
Party, known as the PRI. The PRI has ruled Mexico from the party's creation in
1929, but it lost this summer's presidential election.

Although the current prosecutor has insisted a lone gunman fired at Colosio as
he stood in a crowd, many outside the ruling party have questioned the findings.
Mario Aburto Martinez was the only person convicted of the slaying.

Amaral has testified on three occasions, sometimes saying there was one gunman
and other times saying there were two, the Times said.

Amaral's attorney, Tamara A. French, said his statements changed "because five
officials interrogated him with weapons and forced him to sign a false
statement."

President-elect Vicente Fox, Mexico's first opposition leader to be elected to
the post, has promised to reopen the case after he assumes office in December.

"There is more interest now than perhaps at any other time to silence my
testimony," Amaral told the Times. He said members of PRI "still control the
judicial system and the government."

Immigration Judge John Walsh ruled Feb. 10 that while he did not contest
Amaral's fear of retribution or the credibility of his story, Amaral was not
eligible for asylum because his persecution was not based on his political
opinion, the Times said.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 28, 2000 Thursday SAN FRANCISCO EDITION

MEASURE SEEKS TO BLOCK 'ATROCIOUS' U.S. HOUSING LAW

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff reports.

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 176 words


Supervisor Tom Ammiano introduced legislation to prevent San Francisco from
implementing a new federal housing law that opponents say would leave many of
the city's immigrants and poor without a roof over their heads.

The Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act, a 1998 law signed by President
Clinton, requires about 60 percent of all public and subsidized housing to be
reserved for tenants who make 30 percent to 80 percent of the area's median
income. If the law is implemented, the destitute will not qualify, protesters
said.

Additionally, the San Francisco Housing Authority plans to verify applicants'
residency and citizenship by providing their information to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which the city does not allow.

Renee Saucedo, an attorney for La Raza Centro Legal, called the new law
"extremely atrocious."

"It will result in the eviction not only of very poor people, but it will also
result in the eviction of many immigrant tenants who won't want to go through
the verification process," Saucedo said.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 5, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS LACK CARE, STUDY SAYS REPORT CALLS ON STATE TO INTEGRATE NEWCOMERS BY
EXPANDING LANGUAGE CLASSES, GIVING HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 541 words


As immigrants continue flowing into California at record rates, state
policy-makers need to do a better job of integrating the newcomers into the
economy and society, according to a University of California report released
today.

The 18-month study by the California Policy Research Center in Berkeley
concludes that the state should improve policies to benefit low-skilled
immigrant workers, offer incentives to small employers to provide health care
for all employees, and expand adult English-as-a-second-language classes, among
other recommendations.

"The state's ability to integrate immigrants and their children will shape the
California of 2025 and beyond," wrote co-author Philip Martin, professor of
agricultural and resource economics at the University of California-Davis.

California has more immigrants than any other state -- more than 8 million of
the 34 million residents are foreign-born, according to the study. The report
also said about 46 percent of Californians are either immigrants or have a
foreign-born parent.

The study, "Immigration and Immigrant Integration in California: Seeking a New
Consensus," found that a third of the state's annual population growth the past
decade was because of immigration. The annual net flow of 250,000 incoming
immigrants, legal and illegal, is not expected to slow, the study said.

And because California is home to a third of all immigrants in the United
States, state officials should take a leading role in setting national
immigration policy, the study said.

"What the state does, even if it's not targeted toward immigrants, is going to
have a great impact on immigrants and immigration," said co-author Manuel Garcia
y Griego, director of the Center for Mexican American Studies at the University
of Texas in Arlington.

The report calls on the state to establish an office of immigrant affairs that
would coordinate the efforts of different departments and agencies that deal
with issues affecting immigrants, Garcia y Griego said.

Education is key to securing a better future for immigrants as they integrate
into the state's economy and society, he said. If the state helped more working
immigrant adults improve their English and learn more job skills, he said, they
would earn more money and become more active and involved residents.

The study disputes some commonly held assumptions that immigrants are a huge
help or hurt to the state's economy. Immigrants, the study found, were not
responsible for either the recession of the early 1990s or the current economic
boom.

Martin and Garcia y Griego said the time is ripe for a thoughtful debate about
immigration issues. The economy is booming, and it has been six years since the
emotional debate over Proposition 187, which tried to curb illegal immigration.

A San Jose immigrant-rights advocate agreed that the moment is right. The
Proposition 187 debate created a "snowball effect of fear and xenophobia," said
Lisa Castellanos, a program manager at Services Immigrant Rights and Education
Network.

"It's really important to take a deep breath as a state, to calm down and take a
look at what our state looks like, and look at what the contributions of
immigrants have been," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CALIFORNIA & THE WEST

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 10, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REFORM PARTY'S BUCHANAN AIRS FIRST TV AD COMMERCIAL DECRIES IMMIGRATION, EROSION
OF ENGLISH LANGUAGE

BYLINE: SCOTT LINDLAW, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Pat Buchanan aired the first television ad of his Reform Party presidential
campaign Monday, decrying what he described as excessive immigration and the
erosion of English as the nation's dominant language.

With four weeks until the Nov. 7 election, Buchanan chose two polarizing issues
to energize his campaign. Polls show him mired at the bottom of the presidential
field, behind Republican George W. Bush, Democrat Vice President Al Gore and the
Green Party's Ralph Nader.

"Unrestricted immigration could make you a bilingual and a multilingual
country," Buchanan said in an interview. "Those countries don't seem to be
staying together too well."

His new ad, titled "Meatball," depicts a man who begins to choke when he hears
of a government move to strip English of its status as the "national language."

The ad cites an executive order President Clinton signed in August making it
easier for non-English-speaking citizens to gain access to federal programs and
services.

The man calls 911 and, eyes bulging from the meatball stuck in his throat, hears
an automated menu of languages to choose from.

He dies before getting to English, though it's unclear what the choking man
would have done had he reached an English-speaking dispatcher.

"Do you ever miss English?" an announcer asks in the ad. "Immigration is out of
control. Bush and Gore are writing off English for good."

Gore has opposed English-as-official-language efforts; Bush has taken no stand
on the matter but supports teaching children to be proficient in English while
respecting diversity in language and heritage. Buchanan believes English should
be the official U.S. language.

The ad will air in at least 24 states through the election and cost the Buchanan
campaign "millions," said spokesman K.B. Forbes.

Buchanan, who received $12.6 million in federal election subsidies last month,
also is airing radio spots around the nation on such issues as abortion and
immigration.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 19, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS CHIEF TO LEAVE JOB IN 4 WEEKS IMMIGRATION AGENCY GREW ON HER WATCH

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner announced her
resignation Wednesday and said she planned to return to the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace.

Meissner joined the INS in October 1993, early in the Clinton administration,
and her last day will be Nov. 17. Her successor is likely to be Deputy
Commissioner Mary Ann Wyrsch, said an administration official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.

"Commissioner Meissner's balanced approach to deterring illegal immigration
while facilitating legal migration has enabled our nation to continue the great
American tradition of welcoming immigrants to our shores," President Clinton
said in a statement.

Meissner will examine U.S. policy at the Carnegie Endowment, where she founded
its International Migration Policy Program.

The INS experienced growth and turbulence under Meissner's. Its workforce grew
from 18,000 to 32,000 and its budget nearly tripled to $4.3 billion. Government
officials have debated dividing the agency into separate arms for enforcement
and services.

The agency has been criticized for falling short of Border Patrol hiring goals
and for delays in processing citizenship papers and residency cards.

The agency, however, has more than doubled the size of the Border Patrol during
her tenure and has reduced paperwork backlogs in recent years.

Meissner is one of several administration officials who are departing as the end
of Clinton's term approaches.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 30, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INDO-AMERICANS SEND KIDS BACK TO HOMELAND TO LEARN CULTURE IMMIGRANTS LOOKING TO
DEFY U.S. ASSIMILATION

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1204 words


Madhuri Sharma's parents could have sent her to any number of schools near their
West San Jose home to learn bharata natyam arangetram -- an Indian classical
dance. But they chose to send the 12-year-old all the way to Bangalore, India,
and their reasons are finding resonance with a growing number of Indo-American
families.

"I started thinking about this when my daughter was in the fourth grade. I felt
she needed to know her roots and a thorough understanding of life in India, its
culture and traditions. I believe that everything you learn in life comes from
rituals and traditions," said Buvana Sharma, a San Jose real estate agent.

Unlike immigrants before them, Indo-Americans, highly educated, well-heeled and
tech-savvy, aren't waiting generations to reach back to their cultural roots.
Instead, they're embracing their homeland and its culture -- training in
classical dance or studying Hindu mythology, living with extended families and
getting an early education grounded in science and math -- in ways that
challenge old notions about American assimilation.

"The myth of assimilation is that you work hard to become part of one national
identity. But this is different from assimilation. It's a more contemporary way
of migration, with more links to India, and national identity is multiple," said
Sandhya R. Shukla, an assistant professor of anthropology at Columbia University
in New York City. Shukla teaches courses on Asian-American studies and
researched Indian immigrants.

Seventh-grader Vaibhavi Hiriyannaiah of San Jose, began attending an
international school in Bangalore in June when most school children in the Bay
Area were starting their summer vacations.

"The best thing about being here -- no offense to anyone -- is being awayfrom my
parents and being independent," Vaibhavi said in a telephone interview, the
sound of firecrackers exploding in the background. Vaibhavi is staying with her
grandparents and last week, celebrated Diwali, the festival of lights.

"What was attractive to us was that she would be learning dance and music and
she'd be growing up in the company of cousins and her grandparents," said Umesh
Hiriyannaiah, Vaibhavi's father, who owns a computer software company in San
Jose. "I grew up spending a lot of time with my own grandparents and I value
this experience a lot."

While looking for schools in Bangalore, Buvana Sharma, Madhuri's mother,
connected with a half-dozen like-minded families from the Bay Area and Boston.
These parents shared a secret worry about their children: That their daughters
in particular would begin dating and reject the Indian tradition of arranged
marriages.

"Basically, that was one of the fears . . . I did hope that when my daughter
would go to school in India, she'd learn the old traditions and not fall into
all that American dating scene," Sharma said.

As a teenager in the Bay Area, Madhuri, who is now 16, said there is tremendous
pressure from her peers to date. But she said she feels more grounded in Indian
culture and traditions, having spent two years in India, and seeing that she can
enjoy the company of boys with her group of friends. Madhuri completed her
eighth and ninth grades in Bangalore and returned a year and a half ago to
attend Lynbrook High School in Cupertino.

No one knows precisely how many Indo-American families have young children
studying in India, but the Indian consulates in San Francisco and Washington,
D.C, have noticed greater numbers of applications for NRI visas, or non-resident
Indian visas, that allows the Sharmas and Hiriyannaiahs, and other naturalized
American citizens, to live in India.

This reverse migration has been fueled by the development in recent years of
technology centers in southern India and the inextricable business links forged
between those centers in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Silicon Valley. Many
Indo-American entrepreneurs are opening businesses in India or choosing to work
with companies in India.

Elite schools catering to children of Indo-Americans began opening as more and
more Indo-Americans sent their children back to India to learn.

Still, American dollars go far in India and the price of schooling there is a
fraction of what it costs here, said Abhijit Halder, a consul at the Indian
Consulate in San Francisco.

A boarding school, equipped with an equestrian center and swimming pools, cost a
mere $3,000 to $4,000 a year in Bangalore, a fraction of a similarly equipped
boarding schools in the United States.

The appeal then, as Halder pointed out, is financial and cultural. It's also
practical.

Prasad Hagalwadi, a grocery store owner from Cupertino, said the demands of work
in Silicon Valley has taken time away from child-rearing. His wife, Mallika, and
her father, Ananda Sarajapur, both help run the store.

He is worried that his 9-year-old son Pramood, is growing up without the benefit
of close links with family, and "spoiled by too many choices in life."

"One day he wants to take karate. Next day he doesn't," Hagalwadi said.

He said that sending his son to a boarding school in Bangalore -- and exposing
him to the harsh reality of daily life in India and the difficult and limited
choices that children have there -- would help his son "grow up more
responsible."

"I'm not sure how much Indian culture they're going to get from an international
school," said a Michael Moffatt, professor of anthropology at Rutgers University
in New Jersey. Moffatt has studied the Indo-American diaspora in North America.

Traditionally, many new immigrants to America have been entrenched in the belief
that success, or achieving the American dream for their children, hinged on
becoming "Americanized," or assimilating swiftly into the American culture.

That is why there are generations of Italian-Americans or Japanese-Americans,
the children of immigrants, who speak only English, and are American in every
way.

But Indo-American parents are departing from this tradition for a host
ofreasons. Compared with many immigrant groups, Indo-Americans have the
financial resources to stay connected to home, through travel, schools and
cultural studies. What's more, the relatively stable political and economic
conditions in India make going home appealing. Other immigrants, like the
Vietnamese-Americans who fled a Communist regime, face significant obstacles if
they were to return.

While most immigrants retain a strong connection to their homeland,
Indo-Americans are making the connection sooner and more strongly.

"There is much better discipline in India," said Murlimanohar Wanchoo, 77, a
retired government worker who has grandchildren studying in India. "Kids here
are very obstinate and rarely listen to their parents."

There are temples, dance schools and markets in the Bay Area where
Indo-Americans can experience Indian culture, but there is no replicating the
real sights and sounds of India to teach children about traditions and culture,
parents said.

"Here in America as an Indian, we hold on so closely to our culture and heritage
through our clothes, dance, religion," said Madhuri, a high school junior. "But
in India, you don't need to prove it to yourself."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JUDITH CALSON -- MERCURY NEWS
Buvana Sharma, left, and her husband sent their daughter, Madhuri, to a school
in Bangalore, India, for two years to give her the kind of cultural education
they felt she could get only in India.
[001030 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 31, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON IS ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF IMMIGRATION BILL STANDOFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 628 words


IMMIGRANTS who fled right-wing terror in Guatemala, El Salvador and Haiti in the
'80s and '90s deserve the same chance to live in America as those who escaped
from Castro's Cuba and the socialist Sandinistas in Nicaragua.

They haven't gotten it. Congress has played favorites, granting carte blanche
citizenship to victims of left-wing regimes, while setting a high barrier for
those who ran away from right-wing despots.

That injustice has become a pointed dispute between President Clinton and the
Republican leaders in Congress. Clinton has made changes in immigration laws a
condition of passage of the $40 billion bill to fund the Departments of Justice,
Commerce and State. The standoff is one reason why frustrated senators and
representatives are stuck in Washington when they'd rather be home campaigning a
week before the election.

We generally don't approve of saddling a budget with non-spending issues, though
lawmakers do this end-around all the time. It's often how bad laws get written:
in the back room, without public notice or hearings.

But the Republican leadership has thwarted efforts to get these particular
immigration issues to a vote. Last month, Democrats tried to tie the immigration
provisions to the bill expanding temporary visas for high-tech workers, but
ultimately agreed to withdraw them to ensure the bill's passage. With the
pressure to adjourn giving Clinton leverage, now may be the best chance to right
some longstanding wrongs. Clinton is insisting on three reforms affecting as
many as a million illegal immigrants:

(hbox) Grant permanent visas to as many as 400,000 immigrants whom immigration
officials had actively and improperly discouraged from taking advantage of a
1986 amnesty for illegals. Many of these undocumented immigrants have been
exploited at work and been denied other benefits of citizenship, such as
attending public colleges, even though they pay taxes. All have been living in
America for at least 18 years.

(hbox) Give undocumented refugees from Haiti and Guatemala the same legal status
as Cuban refugees, all of whom are granted green cards simply by showing up, no
questions asked. The same standard for a Cuban fleeing Castro should apply to a
Salvadoran fleeing a right-wing death squad.

(hbox) Permit undocumented immigrants who are soon to become legal through
marriage to a U.S. citizen to remain in the United States. Under current law,
they have to leave the country for years before being allowed to re-enter, even
when that divides parents from children.

Some Republicans, like Arizona Sen. John McCain, support the reforms. But
Republican leaders have argued that accommodations would only encourage more
illegal immigration.

It's no mystery why Clinton is picking a fight on this issue now. He's trying to
convince Latinos, whom both presidential candidates are courting heavily, that
Republicans deep-down remain anti-immigrant. He's also arguing that the
stalemate demonstrates the need for a Democratic majority inCongress.
(Republicans claim it proves the need for a conciliatory president -- George W.
Bush.)

Already, Clinton has forced Republican leaders to move in his direction. The GOP
is advocating an alternative bill that would give those bypassed by the 1986
amnesty an opportunity to seek it once again. The bill would also grant
temporary visas over the next three years to undocumented spouses and children
of legal immigrants, enabling families to stay together while their permanent
applications are pending.

Clinton so far has stood firm for a stronger bill, as he should. Quirks in the
law and bureaucratic delays have created years of anxiety for hundreds of
thousands of immigrants. This is as good a time as any to undo the unfairness.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 3, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

5 ACCUSED OF SMUGGLING 300,000 INTO UNITED STATES

BYLINE: From Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 70 words

DATELINE: COSTA RICA


Authorities in Costa Rica have arrested five alleged immigrant traffickers,
including a suspect they said was believed to have smuggled at least 300,000
illegal immigrants to the United States.

Gloria Nino Canales, a Peruvian native, was arrested Wednesday along with her
daughter, a Colombian couple and a Costa Rica immigration official, authorities
said. They did not release the names of the other suspects.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World
In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 20, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MONEY-TRANSFER FEES UNDER FIRE IMMIGRANTS PAY SIZABLE COSTS FOR SENDING MONEY TO
RELATIVES

BYLINE: ADAM GELLER, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS MONDAY; Pg. 6F

LENGTH: 1481 words


Every other month, Gregorio Lazaro and his two brothers strain $600 from modest
wages and send the money home to relatives they left behind in central Mexico.

But for years, a sizable portion of those savings never made it from the
Lazaroses in Los Angeles to their family in Tepatlaxco, south of Mexico City.
Instead, it was claimed as fees -- most in the form of punishing exchange rates
-- that remittance services levy on immigrants who wire money.

Such fees, often totaling 10 percent or more of the dollars being sent, have
become especially lucrative in recent years as immigration into the United
States has increased. Last year, immigrant workers sent $17.4 billion to their
home countries, nearly double the level in 1991, according to the U.S.
Department of Commerce.

"I felt . . . like I was being taken advantage of," says Lazaro, a house
painter.

Western Union and MoneyGram, the largest wire-transfer companies, make no
apologies for their fees, which have been targeted by a number of lawsuits
alleging fraud. But now there are signs of a shifting dynamic in the remittance
business -- notably, new competition -- that could give industry giants a run
for consumers' money.

Make better choices

"There are more companies, and people can make better choices," said Esperanza
Morales of Asociacion Tepeyac de Nueva York, a social-services group that works
with recently arrived Mexican immigrants.

Those choices include independent wire transfer firms, the U.S. Postal Service
and credit unions that offer cut-rate transfers -- Gregorio Lazaro recently
joined such an institution in Los Angeles.

Activists "have tried to create some noise, but it's been very, very timid,"
said Manuel Orozco, a specialist in remittances at Inter-American Dialogue, a
Washington-based think tank. "The problem is that Latin Americans don't have
consumer protection in their culture. We are used to accepting things, no
questions asked."

Anger at wire transfer fees sparked the lawsuits by Mexican immigrants in the
late 1990s and stirred calls for reform by lawmakers. Change, however, comes
slowly -- wire transfer legislation died in Congress and California, and a
pending settlement of a federal suit leaves the fees intact.

Mexico, which receives more than a third of the remittances from the United
States, and many other developing countries rely on wire transfers from abroad
as a key source of domestic income.

"It is money that goes for medical needs, for education," said Juan Hernandez, a
professor at the University of Texas-Dallas and an adviser to Mexico's
president-elect, Vicente Fox. "It goes to the areas of Mexico that need it
most."

Moving money also brings in big money for wire-transfer firms and banks. A
report commissioned by the U.S. Treasury Department found the business generated
more than $1.1 billion in revenues in 1996, and transfers have grown
considerably since then.

Most remittance companies advertise low service fees for international transfers
-- typically $8 to $12 to wire $300 to Mexico. But that cost can double because
of what critics call "hidden fees," charged when dollars are converted to
foreign currency at poor exchange rates.

For instance, it costs about 10.4 cents to buy a Mexican peso at current
exchange rates. The wire-transfer companies, however, charge their customers as
much as a penny more for that same peso. The difference, called the foreign
exchange spread, is pocketed by the companies. With enough transactions, the
money starts adding up.

Advocates charge that wire-transfer businesses have kept quiet about this income
stream, and in doing so, take financial advantage of consumers who can least
afford it.

Major revenue producer

"It's a major revenue producer for these companies," said Matthew Piers, lead
attorney in the federal class-action suit. "In fact, I think it's safe to say
that it's a bigger revenue producer than the service fees."

Transfer companies "stole a lot of money because you'd send dollars here and
they would receive pesos there, and (the remittance firms) would charge for the
difference," said Arnulfo Chino Rojas, a New York restaurant worker from the
Mexican state of Puebla.

Money-transfer companies acknowledge that the foreign exchange spread is a major
profit center, and defend their practices by saying that the exchange rate is
disclosed on the receipt given to consumers.

"Were these hidden fees? Absolutely not," said Peter Ziverts, a spokesman for
Western Union, a subsidiary of Atlanta-based First Data Corp. "The foreign
exchange component is disclosed to the consumer at the time of the transaction."

Even so, the allegations of shady practices have affected the companies'
business.

"One of the things that we're very concerned with is our relationship with our
customers, and I think, clearly, negative publicity has hurt some of those
relationships," said Brad Parker, a spokesman for Phoenix-based Viad Corp.,
MoneyGram's parent company.

Seeking to rebuild those relationships, the companies last year agreed to a
class-action settlement that offers coupons good for discounts on future wire
transfers. They have also agreed to pay $4.6 million to community groups
assisting Mexican immigrants, and more than $10 million in plaintiffs' legal
fees. The settlement, pending before a federal judge, would also require the
companies to disclose their foreign-exchange fees in any price-related
advertising.

But Fred Kumetz, a Los Angeles lawyer who initiated the battle over fees,
criticizes the pact as a "sweetheart settlement" that would buy the support of
community groups while doing little to protect consumers. Kumetz represents a
group of California consumers who are pursuing a separate case in state court
that seeks direct payments from wire-transfer companies.

While the settlement won't cut fees, Western Union and MoneyGram are now facing
more price-driven competition from smaller remittance companies, said Gustavo
Mohar, an official with the Mexican embassy in Washington, which three years ago
began tracking wire-transfer rates after fielding many complaints.

Undercutting

Operations like Raza Express in Los Angeles now undercut the big transfer firms
on price. In New York, Delgado Travel, a chain of 19 travel agencies in
neighborhoods with large immigrant populations, now advertises flat fees of 4
percent to wire money to Mexico, El Salvador, Nicaragua and other Latin American
countries.

The big companies have recently pared their own fees -- in New York, Western
Union is now cheaper than the low-cost competitors. But the big companies'
prices remain higher than competitors in many other markets.

In Los Angeles, for example, Western Union was recently charging a $12 fee to
send $300 to Mexico at an exchange rate of 8.85 pesos per dollar -- counting the
foreign exchange spread, the transaction cost $28. Meanwhile, competitor Raza
Express was charging a $10 fee with an exchange rate of 9.25 pesos, foran
overall cost of about $13.

The U.S. Postal Service has gotten into the act with Dinero Seguro -- Spanish
for "secure money" -- which allows people to wire money from Texas, California
and Illinois to Mexico. That program is scheduled to be expanded next year to
offices in every state and service to other countries.

Meanwhile, the World Council of Credit Unions has launched its own fledgling
effort as a way to attract new members.

In July, the council's IRNet program began offering discount wire transfers to
Mexico, Guatemala and El Salvador from Southern California Edison Federal Credit
Union in Los Angeles, where Gregorio Lazaro is a member. Plans call for the
service to expand to other credit unions in California, Texas, North Carolina
and Illinois.

"The fact of the matter is that Latinos in the U.S. are underserved with
financial services," said Dave Grace, an executive with the credit union group.

The new ventures in the United States are supplemented by efforts outside the
country. Mexican president-elect Fox has asked his advisers to study the
remittances issue to find ways to cut costs for expatriates.

And a project launched by the Banque Haitienne de Developpement aims to open
wire-transfer counters inside community cooperatives in rural Haiti. The
service, funded partly with a $175,000 grant by the U.S. government, aims to cut
transfer fees and plow profits into housing and business loans for Haitians.

But for Gregorio Lazaro, the bottom line is getting the maximum amount home. "I
feel very good because I feel my family is receiving more money now," he says.
"It's very important that they receive this money."

CHART: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Money sent home
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, International Monetary Fund
[001120 BM 6F]

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 22, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANAHEIM FAMILY WOULDN'T TAKE 'NO' FOR AN ANSWER SHE'S NOW A CITIZEN, THANKS TO A
NEW LAW THAT APPLIES TO IMMIGRANTS WITH EXTREME DISABILITY

BYLINE: CHELSEA CARTER, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


When Vijai Rajan's parents applied six years ago to have her become an American
citizen, they believed it would just be a formality.

After all, they were citizens. So was their other child.

But when their daughter's application was denied because she suffers from
cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, seizures and other ailments that made it
impossible for her to take a meaningful oath of allegiance, her parents didn't
take "no" for an answer.

They went to court. They knocked on politicians' doors.

Tuesday, their daughter became the first person granted U.S. citizenship under a
new law that waives the oath for qualified immigrants with extreme disabilities.

"We're very pleased to be able to welcome Ms. Rajan as a citizen," Thomas J.
Schiltgen, director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service district
office, said at a private ceremony.

Vijai Rajan, who cannot speak and has the comprehension of a 2-year-old,
clutched a small American flag, and her parents accepted a certificate on her
behalf.

"Now, you are an American," said her father, Sunder Rajan of Anaheim, a
scientist and engineer with a telecommunications company.

The 25-year-old woman, who requires 24-hour care, was born in India but has
lived in the United States since she was an infant. Her parents are naturalized
citizens, and her sister was born in Ohio.

"We have always treated her equally, believing she was entitled to the same
things that we have," her father said. "But she wasn't treated the same by
others. She didn't have the same rights we did."

The family spent years pressing for a change in law so that she could become a
citizen despite being unable to take the oath.

The family gained national attention for their daughter when they filed a
discrimination lawsuit this year to try to force the INS to grant citizenship.

"Few Americans have to fight so hard for their citizenship, and I thank the
Rajan family for never losing hope," said Rep. Christopher Cox, R-Newport Beach,
who sponsored legislation after hearing about the family's plight.

President Bill Clinton this month signed the law that will give citizenship to
about 1,000 immigrants a year whose disabilities prevent them from reciting the
oath but who otherwise qualify.

Caught up in her family's excitement during the ceremony, Vijai Rajan giggled,
laughed and smiled. She held a flag pressed into one hand until her grip failed
and it fell.

"I personally believe she understands and knows more than she can tell us. Does
she understand the citizenship process? No. But when we go on a trip away from
home, she knows what home is," her father said. "Now, she has one."

Rajan's mother, Shakunthala, and her sister, Induh Rajan, 29, clutched her hands
through the ceremony.

"If you push her over in bed, she gets back up. She will fight you. She will
never cry. She has taught us that -- to fight," her mother said. "We fought for
her because she taught us that."

Asked if he believes people in the United States take citizenship for granted,
the father said: "In my language . . . we have a saying, 'Sometimes you have to
stand in the sun to appreciate the shade.' "

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DAMIAN DOVARGANES -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Vijai Rajan, 25, with her sister, Induh, left, and father, Sunder, waves the
flag Tuesday after becoming the first person to gain citizenship through a
recent change in the Immigration and Nationality Act.
[001122 CA 21A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 2, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COUNTY ADDRESSES IMMIGRANT ISSUES STUDY FINDS UNEQUAL TREATMENT, LIFESTYLES
AMONG FOREIGN-BORN

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 623 words


In an area that is home to one of the largest concentrations of immigrants in
the nation, Santa Clara County's foreign-born population faces a steep challenge
in trying to access health care, quality education, affordable housing and
well-paid employment, according to a report released Friday.

Many of the estimated 600,000 immigrants -- who make up a third of the county's
population -- have less health-insurance coverage, pay more forhousing and work
longer hours than native-born residents, according to the report, which was
commissioned by county officials.

The 390-page report, completed over an 18-month period with hundreds of
volunteers and several county employees, will be presented Wednesday -- along
with policy recommendations -- at a daylong conference.

"We've studied immigrants' conditions in depth, more than any other county has
done in the United States," said Richard Hobbs, director of Santa Clara County's
program for Citizenship and Immigration. "We found that Santa Clara County
immigrants are under-served in every area we studied."

The effort that led to the study, and the upcoming Summit on Immigrant Needs and
Contributions conference, began in May 1999 when county officials asked
representatives of local municipalities and non-profit agencies for ideas on how
to improve the lives of immigrants.

Then they turned to immigrants for help, and in a big way.

Hundreds of immigrants joined 24 focus groups, participated in 16 committees,
answered a random-telephone poll and responded to a 113-question survey printed
in 15 languages.

Although the study considered the needs of people from 170 countries who live in
the county, it focused on the five nations that represent the area's largest
immigrant groups: Mexico, Vietnam, China, the Philippines and India.

Among the key findings:

* Indian-born residents pay more for housing than any other immigrant group --
an average of $1,753 a month, compared with the average for all five major
immigrant groups, $1,401. U.S.-born residents pay an average of $1,117, the
report found.

* Nearly a third of Mexican-born residents and almost a quarter of
Vietnamese-born residents are without health insurance, compared with only 1.6
percent of native-born residents.

* Immigrants from Mexico earned far less money than those from other countries,
and Indian immigrants earned the most. About 71 percent of Mexican-immigrant
households earned less than $50,000 a year, followed by Vietnamese-immigrant
households at 59 percent. Only 14.5 percent of Indian immigrant households
earned less than $50,000. By comparison, about 30 percent of U.S.-born
households earned less than $50,000.

* Lack of time and English skills were identified as major barriers that keep
immigrants from obtaining better services and education.

* Filipino immigrants were more likely to be discriminated against by a
supervisor at work, and Chinese immigrants reported being discriminated against
the least by a supervisor. Indian immigrants were more likely to be
discriminated against by a restaurant worker, and Vietnamese immigrants were
more likely to be discriminated against by a teacher.

The report also included 10 recommendations. Among the highlights: Local
governments and non-profit agencies should learn more about immigrants and their
cultures, English-as-a-second-language programs should be improved and expanded
for immigrants of all ages and the county should establish a commission to deal
with immigrants' needs.

The study's findings will be discussed among invited guests, including county
supervisors, educators and officials from non-profit organizations at
Wednesday's summit, at San Jose's Wyndham Hotel.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 4, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOX WELCOMES HOME MIGRANTS MEXICAN LEADER WANTS CLOSER TIES WITH EXPATRIATES

BYLINE: MORRIS THOMPSON, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


President Vicente Fox said Sunday that he will go to the northern border to
welcome Mexicans working in the United States who traditionally stream back home
for the Christmas holidays.

"I'm going to be on the highways, to receive each and all of the migrants of our
country with open arms," Fox told a gathering of more than 200 Mexican-Americans
and other U.S. visitors at Los Pinos, Mexico's White House, on the third day
after his inauguration.

Fox's symbolic embrace was a sign of how vital he believes Mexicans in the
United States and Mexican-Americans are to the economic development of Mexico.

Through the dollars they send to family members back home, the expatriate
community is already an important source of money.

Fox wants even closer ties and more business investment.

His gesture represents a dramatic break with an unhappy tradition. Returning
Mexicans are frequently greeted at the border, not by a welcoming president, but
with shakedowns by customs and immigration officials and police. About 1 million
Mexican workers immigrate to the United States each year, legally and illegally.
The U.S. Census Bureau estimates that there are nearly 21 million U.S. residents
of Mexican origin.

Fox, who took office Friday, said it was "no accident" that his first official
guests at Los Pinos were the Mexican-Americans with whom he met Sunday.

It was a diverse group that included actor and activist Edward James Olmos, who
said Fox ranks for him with George Washington and South American liberator Simon
Bolivar.

Fox spoke admiringly of the "determination, courage, valor, passion and love" of
Mexico's migrants over the years.

"We want to follow your example," without having to leave the country, he said.

The aim, he said, is to make it so "that every little boy and girl can stay with
his family, here in Mexico, and can find their way up in his own country."

Juan Hernandez, chief of a new presidential office for assistance to Mexicans
abroad, introduced Fox.

Hernandez, 45, has dual U.S. and Mexican citizenship; his parents live in Fort
Worth.

He said that the new administration would be working to aid and win the support
of Mexicans "regardless of their citizenship."

Other officials, including Foreign Secretary Jorge Castaneda, repeated the
theme, promising, for example, to improve service to Mexicans at border
crossings.

Fox, Mexico's first president not from the Institutional Revolutionary Party
since 1928, is promising new respect for and relationships with Mexico's sons
and daughters abroad and peasants and Indians at home.

His outreach to the mostly Maya Indian Zapatista rebels in the southern state of
Chiapas is already bearing some fruit. In Fox's first official act, just after
midnight on his inauguration day, he ordered a partial withdrawal of federal
troops from Chiapas. The chief of the Zapatista Army, Subcommander Marcos,
responded late Saturday with a conditional offer to resume negotiations with the
government.

Fox welcomed the offer Sunday.

And Fox later Sunday attended an inauguration celebration in the state of
Mexico, outside Mexico City, that was intended to honor peasants. About 40
percent of Mexican workers are dependent on agriculture.

But it is Mexicans abroad whose importance to the nation's economy is rising.
They send their families upward of $6 billion a year in a country where about 40
percent of the population of 100 million lives in households with incomes of
less than $200 a month.

Fox and Hernandez repeated promises to make it cheaper and easier for Mexicans
abroad to send money home.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: VICTOR CAIVANO -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Mexican President Vicente Fox, right, shakes hands with a man in Metepec during
a meeting of farmworkers Sunday -- his third day in office. Fox said he wanted
to welcome returning Mexicans "with open arms."

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 5, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HISPANIC LAWMAKERS TO DISCUSS IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 74 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Hispanic lawmakers planned to meet Tuesday with President Clinton's top aide and
House Democratic leaders to discuss immigration proposals stalled in Congress.

Before last month's election, Clinton vowed to veto a spending bill for the
Commerce, State and Justice departments if it didn't grant amnesty to millions
of illegal immigrants and allow more refugees from Central America and Haiti.
Republicans have steadfastly balked at both.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 6, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINOS ARE MISSING ON ROAD TO COLLEGE

BYLINE: LINDA CHAVEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 815 words


WHEN it comes to a strong work ethic and devotion to family, Latinos rank second
to none. They exhibit among the highest labor-force participation rates of any
group and are more likely than other Americans to live in married, two-parent
households with children. But these solid values may not be enough to guarantee
Latinos' success in the United States. Indeed, as surprising as it may seem,
these very virtues may be holding back young Latinos by encouraging them to
sacrifice higher education and personal advancement in order to help their
families.

Young, U.S.-born Latinos are far more likely than either blacks or whites to get
jobs when they graduate from high school, rather than attend college. And a
majority of young Latino immigrants forgo school for work even without earning
high school diplomas, a particularly vexing problem since immigrants now
outnumber those born in the United States among the adult Latino population.

According to a recent study by the U.S. Census Bureau, some 80 percent of 25- to
44-year-old native-born Latinos have graduated from high school. But while 44
percent of young, native-born Latinos have attended college, only 13 percent
have graduated.

The numbers for Latino immigrants are much worse. Fewer than half of
foreign-born Latinos between the ages of 25 and 44 have graduated from high
school; less than one-quarter have attended college; and only 9 percent have
earned a bachelor's degree or higher. By contrast, some 48 percent of young
blacks and nearly 60 percent of young whites have at least some college
education, with 17 percent of blacks and nearly one-third of young whites having
earned a four-year or advanced degree.

At a time when a college education has become an entry-level credential for most
middle-class jobs, Latinos' lower education levels will mean substantially lower
lifetime earnings. The median yearly earnings for a full-time worker with a high
school degree were about $23,500 in 1998, compared with $43,700 for college
graduates. Yet despite the obvious advantages of continuing their education, too
many young Latinos opt instead to enter the work force with less than ideal
preparation.

So why aren't more Hispanics going to college? The easy answer -- one advanced
by most Hispanic advocacy organizations -- is that they can't afford it. But at
a time when financial aid is widely available and when similarly disadvantaged
minorities, such as blacks, are attending college in higher numbers, this
explanation doesn't suffice. The decision by Latinos not to continue their
education is more likely a voluntary and conscious one, which reflects a value
system that places a priority on family advancement, even at the expense of
individual achievement.

Latino families are more likely than either black or white families to depend on
pooled resources of several working family members, including adult children
living in the same household as their parents and younger siblings.

California researcher Gregory Rodriguez has done groundbreaking analyses of
Latino income that show, for example, that when you examine household rather
than individual income as a variable, Latinos appear to be doing well. Indeed,
in several studies of Latinos living in Southern California, Rodriguez has shown
that about half of the U.S.-born Latino families are middle-class, defined by
household income and home ownership.

But these findings also suggest that Latino families may be accomplishing
greater immediate economic success by jeopardizing future economic security.
Investment in education means sacrifices in other areas, especially for families
barely able to maintain their hold on a middle-class lifestyle. It also may mean
the loss of household income from young adult family members who could be
working but instead are furthering their own education, which can have serious
consequences for the overall economic status of family units that depend on
multiple earners.

Latinos are hardly the first group to face this dilemma. Italian Americans, for
example, followed a similar path into the middle class. Indeed, it took Italian
Americans, as a group, until 1972, some 60 years after the peak of Italian
immigration, before they caught up with other Americans in median education
attainment.

Nevertheless, it is important that Latino families realize that the choices they
make to get ahead today, which may seem justified by the economic challenges
they face, will make it more difficult for Latinos to achieve a solid foothold
in the middle class.

For many Latino families, the cost of higher education may mean deferring the
dream of owning a home or incurring more debt to finance college tuition and
books. But these investments in education pay off over time -- and without them,
Latinos will not be able to advance beyond their current lower-middle-class
status.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Latinos
Linda Chavez is president of the Center for Equal Opportunity and author of "Out
of the Barrio: Toward a New Politics of Hispanic Assimilation." She wrote this
for the Washington Post.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 8, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON, CONGRESS HOPE FOR BUDGET DEAL NEXT WEEK

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


President Clinton and congressional leaders met anew Thursday and moved toward
finally ending their yearlong budget war. Both sides said afterward that next
week could bring an accord and an end to the fractious 106th Congress.

Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., and other GOP leaders want Clinton
to agree to deeper cuts in a massive $350 billion education, labor and health
bill.

Meetings between the two sides on specific reductions and to resolve
immigration, workplace safety, Medicare spending and other issues were expected
to last into next week.

A new GOP offer would help immigrants, including relatives of permanent
residents, applying for residency. But it ignores Clinton's broader proposal to
legalize all illegal immigrants who arrived in the United States before 1986 and
many Central American political refugees.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 12, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

12 MIGRANTS SEALED IN CONTAINER HONG KONG POLICE SAY SMUGGLERS MADE BOX AIRTIGHT
TO AVOID DETECTION

BYLINE: LAURA J. WINTER, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG


Twelve illegal immigrants from mainland China were short on oxygen and
semiconscious when authorities found them in a shipping container, and probably
would have died en route to the United States, police said Monday.

Tarpaulin and packing tape had been used to create an airtight seal at the
container's mouth in an effort to foil carbon dioxide detectors -- hand-held
meters that Hong Kong customs inspectors use to find signs of life within
containers.

"What they almost did is nearly kill themselves," said Todd Bancroft, the police
detective in charge of the investigation.

Food and fan

The migrants were well-equipped with food and clothing and even had an electric
fan to circulate the air. They apparently were overcome by a lack of oxygen
after spending just a few hours in the container Sunday, officials said.

Authorities arrested 12 men and two women suspected of being part of an
international human smuggling syndicate after they opened the container
Sundayand found the mainland Chinese waiting to be shipped to Long Beach.

The migrants, aged 18 to 43, were scheduled to leave Monday on a journey that
would have taken 11 days. They were taken to a hospital, where 11 of them were
revived Sunday and released into police custody.

It was the second time police have found mainland Chinese immigrants inside a
shipping container in Hong Kong. In October, 26 Chinese men were found in a
container that was to have been shipped out of Hong Kong, also to Long Beach.

That time, Customs and Excise Department officials praised the use of the carbon
dioxide detectors for locating the immigrants.

Although police said the migrants found Sunday could easily have died from lack
of oxygen, authorities declined comment on whether the use of the carbon dioxide
detectors could prompt illegal immigrants to take deadly risks as they seek to
avoid getting caught.

"It's a kind of enforcement action by us," said Peter Tiu, a customs and excise
spokesman. "We are always trying to use this equipment."

Andy Tsang Wai-hung, the Chief Superintendent of Hong Kong's Organized Crime and
Triad Bureau, would not identify the company that tried to send the container.

Inside the container, the immigrants were supplied with bottled water, crackers,
instant noodles, apples and bananas. Among blankets, pillows and sleeping pads,
police found flashlights and an electric heater.

Air holes not open

Three small square air holes, approximately six inches across, in the floor of
the container could have been opened once the immigrants were loaded onto the
ship -- but the container never got that far before it was raided.

Officials believe the illegal immigrants were from the southern Chinese province
of Fujian, the base of many human smugglers, called "snakeheads."

Tsang said the immigrants paid the snakeheads up to $60,000 per person for the
voyage to the United States.

A clampdown on human traffickers in Fujian had yielded 400 arrests as of
October, Chinese state media reported.

The figure marks a 60 percent increase from the same period last year, the
government report said.

In June, 58 Chinese illegal immigrants died in the back of a sealed truck during
a five-hour boat crossing from the Netherlands to a British port.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LO SAI HUNG -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Hong Kong detective Todd Bancroft examines a shipping container Monday, one day
after 12 illegal immigrants from mainland China were found hidden inside.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 12, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MIGRATION TALKS WITH U.S. END WITHOUT AN ACCORD

BYLINE: From Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 75 words

DATELINE: CUBA


With the Elian Gonzalez case still a delicate subject in both countries, Cuban
and U.S. officials on Monday wrapped up immigration talks that did not end with
any accords but were more conciliatory than the last round of negotiations.

The two countries have been holding periodic talks on migration issues since
1994, when Cuba briefly lowered its borders and allowed more than 30,000 people
to leave for the United States on boats and rafts.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World
In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 13, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

40 PERCENT OF TB CASES IN U.S. STRIKE FOREIGNERS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 109 words

DATELINE: ILLINOIS


Immigrants account for more than 40 percent of all tuberculosis cases in the
United States, suggesting that government efforts to eliminate TB should focus
on foreigners, researchers reported.

The nation's overall tuberculosis rate has dropped to an all-time low: 17,531
active cases last year. Active cases among immigrants climbed 2.6 percent from
7,402 in 1993 to 7,591 in 1998, researchers from the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention reported in today's Journal of the American Medical Association
in Chicago.

During that time, the proportion of U.S. cases involving immigrants increased
from about 30 percent to 41.6 percent.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: In Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 13, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO EXTENDS A HAND TO EMIGRANTS

BYLINE: GREGORY RODRIGUEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 980 words


EVEN before his historic election to Mexico's presidency in July, Vicente Fox
startled U.S. observers when he vowed to govern on behalf of 118 million
Mexicans -- the 100 million in his country and the nearly 18 million of Mexican
descent in the United States. Not surprisingly, the promise, along with Fox's
vision of a more open U.S.-Mexico border, heightened anxieties that Mexican
immigration poses a threat to U.S. national integrity.

Fearful that Fox's talk might spark anti-immigrant feelings and call Mexican
Americans' political loyalties into question, some prominent Latino advocates
and academics criticized Fox's rhetoric as ill-conceived. Yet, broadening the
definition of "Mexican" is more likely to advance the Americanization of Mexico
than it is to give Mexico greater clout in the United States.

For decades, Mexico disowned its migrants as renegades who had turned tail on
their country and culture. Although Mexico benefited from the escape valve that
allowed it to lose large numbers of unemployed and underemployed citizens, the
migrants were symbols of their homeland's failures.

Only when Mexican Americans began advancing politically and economically did
Mexico begin to take a sympathetic view of its diaspora. Beginning in the late
1970s, then intensifying under President Carlos Salinas de Gortari in the late
1980s, Mexico developed a two-pronged public-relations strategy to capitalize on
Mexican American progress. To reach U.S.-born Mexican Americans, Mexico courted
Latino organizations and granted heritage awards to accomplished Mexican
Americans. To appeal to Mexican-born immigrants, Mexican consulates strengthened
their outreach efforts and encouraged newcomers in the United States to demand
their rights. In so doing, Mexico aimed to nurture sympathetic views toward
itself among the growing Latino American electorate and to urge migrants to keep
sending money back home.

Estimated at $8 billion annually, the remittances Mexican immigrants send home
have reshaped the popular image of Mexican Americans in Mexico. In many
villages, U.S.-based immigrants have gained social and political influence by
virtue of their financial generosity. In his inaugural speech Dec. 1, Fox
referred to them as "our beloved migrants, our heroic migrants." As did his
predecessors, Fox pledged that Mexican consulates will become "the best allies
of (immigrants') rights."

But last month, in what was perhaps an attempt to clarify the controversial
notion of a transnational Mexican nation, Fox went farther than any previous
Mexican official in validating not only the dreams but also the political
loyalties of U.S.-born and naturalized Mexican Americans.

In 1997, the Mexican government passed a law allowing migrants who become
naturalized U.S. citizens to retain their Mexican nationality. Responding to the
enormous increase in U.S. citizenship applications by immigrants, Mexico wanted
to preserve these migrants' connection to their homeland by proclaiming that
U.S. citizenship would no longer be considered cultural treason. But in a
November speech to the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Fox
took this argument to the next level when he encouraged longtime Mexican
immigrants to become U.S. citizens.

IN other words, the Fox administration sees self-interest in Mexican immigrants
becoming productive and loyal citizens of the United States. While saying he
hoped Mexican Americans would not forget their heritage, Fox acknowledged that
immigrants "want to dream the American dream and wake up ascitizens."

In expanding the definition of "Mexican" to embrace Mexican Americans, Fox has
validated American influence in Mexican life. For the longest time, Mexico
considered the colossus to the north its greatest burden. But Fox, the former
Coca-Cola Co. executive, is refashioning the image of the United States in
Mexico. He has asserted that his country's proximity to the largest economy in
the world is a "strategic advantage." Under Fox, Mexico will seek even closer
ties with the United States.

What this means is that when Mexican migrants leave their homeland for the
United States, they will no longer be joining the enemy. Narrowing the cultural
divide between North and South will facilitate their transition to American
life. To be sure, Mexican immigration will continue to alter the cultural
landscape of the Southwest. But it will follow the patterns of other minority
groups who affected regional cultures in the United States, such as the Jews in
New York, the Irish in Massachusetts, the Germans in Wisconsin and the
Scandinavians in Minnesota. Foods, customs, linguistic and phenotypic traits
once considered "foreign" gradually become part of a broader regional culture.

Despite its best public-relations efforts, Mexico has an uphill battle to keep
its emigrants and their children engaged in homeland affairs. The 1992 Latino
National Political Survey, the largest opinion poll of its kind, disclosed that
Mexican Americans and Anglo Americans hold similarly positive attitudes toward
the United States. The same survey found that while they generally look fondly
on Mexico, few Mexican Americans follow Mexican political events closely.
Furthermore, few naturalized Mexican immigrants have taken advantage of the
option to reclaim their Mexican nationality.

In his speech to MALDEF, Fox properly recognized that the Mexican American
agenda is not the same as the Mexican agenda, and that their two perspectives
are forged by vastly different political, economic and social factors. What he
did not say is that, over time, Mexican Americans also become culturally
distinct from their cousins south of the border. In his inaugural address, Fox
declared that Mexico needs its lost emigrants. The problem for Mexico, however,
is that she needs them more than they need her.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Gregory Rodriguez is a fellow at the New America Foundation. He wrote
this for the Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: VICTOR CAIVANO -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Mexico's President Vicente Fox greets well-wishers on his inauguration day in
Mexico City.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 31, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS MOVES TO REIN IN DIRECTORS ON TREATMENT OF ASYLUM SEEKERS

BYLINE: FREDRIC N. TULSKY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 985 words


The Justice Department moved last week to dramatically alter an Immigration and
Naturalization Service culture that had delegated to the nation's 33 district
directors vast authority to decide whether, and when, asylum seekers should be
released from custody.

The department action, which came in the form of an interim rule that was
published Thursday, spells out what would sound obvious to many: The INS
district directors have to answer to their superiors regarding decisions on the
release of asylum seekers from custody. Indeed, the rule downplays its
significance, stating that it is only clarifying the current law.

But officials both at the INS and at advocacy organizations for refugees agreed
Friday that the new rule is anything but routine: It is likely to prevent asylum
seekers from being locked up for months while awaiting hearings, simply because
they happened to arrive in a district that maintained a strict policy
disfavoring release.

Explicit authority

The new rule would give INS officials explicit authority to overturn denials of
release by district directors to asylum seekers who, after arriving in the
United States without valid travel documents, proved to INS officers that they
had a "credible fear of persecution" if sent back to their native country.

"It's a huge deal. It's a revolution," said Elisa Massimino, director of the
Washington office of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which has battled
the New York district office in case after case, saying refugees were being
wrongfully held in custody unnecessarily. "It's something we've been working for
for 10 years."

Bill Strassberger, spokesman for the agency, said, "It is fair to call this an
important step in our efforts to ensure consistency" in how the agency treats
asylum seekers from district to district.

By choosing to define the policy change as an interim rule, rather than a
proposed new regulation, the department made it possible to implement the policy
directive before the 60-day comment period expires Feb. 26. Still, by setting
the effective date of Jan. 29, the department left open the possibility that the
incoming Bush administration could suspend or kill the interim rule before it
ever became effective.

"There is still a big question of how the new administration will respond," said
Wendy A. Young, Washington liaison for the Women's Commission for Refugee Women
and Children. She called the rule "a clear signal that headquarters doesn't buy
into district practices when it comes to these decisions" on releasing asylum
seekers. "Why else would they have to clarify that they have authority to
overturn district decisions?"

A Mercury News report earlier this month detailed the tensions between INS
headquarters and some district directors over how and when asylum seekersshould
be released. At its heart, the dispute stems from tensions inherent in the
agency's obligations to both safeguard the rights of refugees and to serve its
law enforcement function of protecting the borders from illegal immigrants.

Balancing risk

Aside from practical considerations -- some districts may be more strapped for
bed space than others -- a series of philosophic considerations may affect
whether one director is more likely than others to release asylum seekers.

The district directors may differ in balancing the risk of releasing people who
may disappear and become illegal immigrants, against the risk of adding to the
trauma of a refugee. And many INS officials believe that detaining asylum
seekers deters others from trying to come to the United States without valid
travel documents.

Doris Meissner, the Clinton administration INS commissioner who left office last
month, had made no secret of her frustration at her inability to develop uniform
practices for the release of asylum seekers. At a September 1998 appearance
before a U.S. Senate subcommittee, Meissner testified that "people 'yearning to
be free' should not languish behind bars," and told the senators then that the
agency was in the midst of a nationwide study of district release practices.
Meissner said the review would be completed the next month.

But it never happened, and the commissioner said in a May 1999 interview that
officials in Washington had been unable to obtain from each district the
information needed to conduct the review. Instead, she said, she had dispatched
a team of officials from Washington to New York, to review the files of those
asylum seekers detained in the New York district.

Abrupt reversal

The week of that visit, district officials abruptly altered a decision denying
release on medical grounds to a Liberian refugee named Dominic Nunu. Nunu was
then in his 20th month of detention, even as he developed a degenerative
neurologic disease and as a growing number of religious and civil rights groups
urged Meissner to release Nunu from custody.

An official at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights had written to Meissner,
contending that Nunu's case was proof that the New York district was failing to
follow INS policies regarding the release of asylum seekers.

Friday, LCHR official Massimino said the interim rule would solve the problem of
cases like Nunu's: "This would provide the kind of structural oversight of those
decisions that there never has been. It would make decisions less arbitrary."

In September, Meissner said the agency was in the process of several reforms
designed to strengthen oversight and eliminate arbitrariness from one city to
another. "Obviously, we have been concerned about unevenness," she said then.

She said officials in headquarters would begin regular random reviews of release
decisions by directors around the country. Additionally, the agency directed all
districts to inform asylum seekers when and why their requests for release are
denied -- a practice that had not been occurring everywhere.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Uncertain Refuge: A Mercury News Special Report

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 3, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FEEL CHEATED BY CONSULTANTS MANY 'NOTARIOS' UNQUALIFIED

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1255 words


Juan Munoz, a father of seven who has lived in Watsonville off and on for 21
years, faces a critical deadline Thursday. He must return to Mexico voluntarily
or risk deportation, either of which includes a 10-year ban from re-entering the
United States.

Munoz has built his case largely on blaming the private immigration consultants
he hired to assist in his petition for legal residency. He claims these
consultants provided erroneous and unlawful advice.

Munoz has plenty of company.

Each year hundreds, perhaps thousands, of illegal immigrants in California and
elsewhere turn to consultants, who aren't required to have legal training and
aren't allowed to give advice. Sometimes known in Spanish as notarios, they
promise residency and work permits. Some deliver, many do not.

"They ruined my whole life, my future, and worse yet, the future of my family,"
said a dejected Munoz, a roofing supervisor who reluctantly purchased plane
tickets for himself, his wife and five of their U.S.-born children for a flight
tonight to Guadalajara, to start a new life.

Facing a "voluntary" deportation order, Munoz is leaning against leaving, hoping
the Immigration and Naturalization Service will allow him to remain at least
through completion of his testimony against the consultant. Such a voluntary
order from the INS encourages someone to leave by a designated date. If a person
stays, it initiates formal deportation hearing process.

Chances appear slim, however, that he would be allowed to stay. An INS official
in San Francisco last week denied his request for an extension to plead his case
to stay. Munoz said that if he's not deported, he could be eligible for
residency in about another 18 months -- when his wife qualifies -- but doesn't
want to separate the family by going to Mexico alone.

Meanwhile, it's likely that the growing problem of unqualified consultants will
soon worsen, immigration attorneys and county prosecutors warn, following the
liberalization of immigration laws. Many undocumented residents erroneously
believe the new laws, which went into effect Dec. 21, have created a blanket
amnesty, prompting legal experts to worry that more will seek out the advice of
these consultants.

"There's a huge risk of major misinformation," said Doris Rose Inda, one of
Munoz's attorneys at the East San Jose Community Law Center. "People are eager
to hear that one of these new laws apply to them, which is probably not the
case."

The Spanish word notario can be translated literally to mean notary public, yet
it takes on a different meaning in Mexico -- attorney. After learning that many
Mexican immigrants were seeking immigration help from notarios who were not
attorneys, California legislators several years ago passed a law forbidding the
use of that Spanish word in advertisements.

But the services offered by consultants continue, even under their own category
in the Yellow Pages, even among those that haven't filed the required $50,000
bond with the Secretary of State's Office in Sacramento.

The work performed by unqualified consultants doesn't affect only immigrants
from Latin America.

"Immigration consultant fraud is a huge problem in California and it's getting
worse and worse," said Steve Baughman, a partner with the San Francisco firm
Baughman and Wang, which represents many Chinese immigrants who say their
applications for residency were botched by consultants.

"We have one situation where a couple paid $40,000 over the course of a year to
a very corrupt immigration consultant, and they may now have to face deportation
proceedings," Baughman said.

"The people I represent in the Chinese community are very newly arrived people,
they are not in high-paying work positions, they are relatively uneducated and
unsophisticated, and they're prey for immigration consultants," he added.

Spurred by a growing number of complaints, some Bay Area counties are
increasingly trying to clamp down on unqualified consultants; the state has even
upgraded its consumer-protection laws, which kicked in Monday. The lawsincrease
the maximum civil penalty, from $10,000 to $100,000, that can be imposed on an
illegal consultant.

But enforcement efforts often fail because nearly all victims, who can quickly
point fingers at bad consultants, are reluctant to file complaints.

Munoz is one of few people in Northern California to formally accuse a
consultant of wrongdoing. One of his top reasons for wanting to stay, he said,
is to pursue his ongoing civil case against the consultant that allegedly
wronged him, Pronto Dollars of Gilroy and Salinas.

"I don't want this to happen to anyone else," Munoz, 40, said.

In his lawsuit filed in Monterey County Superior Court, Munoz and other
plaintiffs in the case allege that non-attorneys at Pronto Dollars made choices
clients had never requested, such as applying for political asylum without their
consent.

Asylum requests are rarely granted to those from Mexico, a generally politically
stable country. But consultants have routinely relied on the asylum process for
their undocumented clients because it guarantees a last-ditch hearing before an
INS official, who has the authority to grant residency in situations of extreme
hardship.

A newly hired attorney for Pronto Dollars in Gilroy and Salinas did not return
phone calls seeking comment on behalf of business owner Ramiro Alcala. The
owners of Pronto Dollars in Soledad, who also were listed as defendants in the 3
1/2-year-old lawsuit, settled their part of the case in 1999.

In that settlement, Frank and Leticia Salvador strongly denied any wrongdoing
but agreed to a court-ordered injunction to comply with the requirements of the
state's Immigration Consultant Act, such as a provision that requires
consultants to post notices stating they are not attorneys.

Munoz is expected to attend a mediation session in the Pronto Dollars case as
early as this month in Salinas. "With the civil case it would be really
detrimental not to have him," said Rose Inda. "He really does exemplify the
consequences that are caused by these notarios' actions."

Like other attorneys who take over the immigration applications botched by
inexperienced consultants, Baughman, the San Francisco attorney, is critical of
prosecutors who rarely take consultants into criminal courts.

Prosecutors say it's difficult to bring charges when the victims, particularly
illegal immigrants, are also scared and embarrassed to provide testimony.
"That's commonly the problem faced by district attorneys throughout the state,"
said Martha Donohoe, a Santa Clara County consumer protection prosecutor.

A few owners have closed voluntarily in the five years since the Santa Clara
County District Attorney's Office began sending notices to as many as 65
consultants, simply asking if they met the state laws.

Other counties have borrowed the idea, with success.

Still others are relying heavily on the new laws, including one that increases
the maximum civil penalty that can be imposed on an illegal consultant.

Politicians such as the legislation's author, Assemblywoman Gloria Romero,
D-Monterey Park, hope that raising the penalty will send a stronger message to
consultants, consumers and law enforcement officials.

"There's a lot that still needs to be done, but I think this is a very important
first step," said Ignacio Hernandez, Romero's chief of staff. "It's a growing
problem, and I think we're just scratching the surface on it."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
Juan Munoz of Watsonville is suing an immigration consultant he says botched his
residency application.
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
Juan Munoz doesn't want to leave behind his family, which includes Ruby, left,
10, Jasmin, 3, and Perla, 7, if he returns to Mexico. His children were allborn
in the United States, but Munoz faces a deportation order.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 3, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ONE IN 10 FOREIGN-BORN, NEW FIGURES ESTIMATE

BYLINE: GENARO C. ARMAS, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


America's foreign-born population swelled to more than 28.3 million last year,
with the majority arriving from Latin America and Asia, newCensus Bureau
estimates being released today show.

The number of foreign-born residents in America was up from 26.4 million in
1999, the report said. About 1 of every 10 people in America last year was born
outside the country.

The estimates to be released today were based on an annual survey taken in March
by the statistical agency, and were not results from Census 2000. Official
Census 2000 numbers on foreign-born residents could be released within a year.

A separate survey released Tuesday by the Center for Immigration Studies, based
on census figures, found that while the biggest immigrant populations were in
California, New York and Florida, states with fast-growing populations overall
like Colorado, North Carolina and Nevada each experienced jumps of more than 180
percent since 1990.

The percentage of immigrants among Americans has increased steadily since 1970,
from 4.7 percent to 10.4 percent in 2000, according to the center, a
Washington-based think tank that supports stricter controls on immigration.

Mark Mather, an analyst with the Population Reference Bureau, a non-profit
Washington research group, said that states along the coasts and with big urban
centers continue to attract the most newcomers to America.

But, "the foreign-born population is increasing everywhere," Mather said. "They
are moving out of the coastal areas, but it's a slow process."

About 37 percent of foreign-born residents were naturalized citizens, the Census
Bureau said in its report.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 5, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WATSONVILLE MAN SUING IMMIGRATION CONSULTANT RETURNS TO MEXICO

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 459 words


A 40-year-old Watsonville man facing deportation to Mexico this week apparently
has decided to leave the country -- thus likely abandoning his lawsuit against
an immigration consultant, whom he blames for putting him into the predicament.

Juan Munoz, a father of seven, apparently abided by a voluntary deportation
order issued by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which had told him
to report to the American Consulate in Guadalajara on Thursday.

He left for Mexico on Thursday morning, according to his 18-year-old son, Juan
Munoz Jr. A co-worker, meanwhile, said Munoz quit his job as a roofing
supervisor Wednesday because he was being deported.

Munoz, who has lived in Watsonville off and on for 21 years, is one of hundreds
of undocumented immigrants in California who have turned to private consultants,
known in Spanish as notarios, who promise residency and work permits. Complaints
against such consultants have prompted some Bay Area counties to clamp down on
unqualified consultants, and the state has upgraded its consumer protection
laws.

Munoz is one of the few people in Northern California to sue a consultant for
allegedly submitting a fraudulent application to the INS on his behalf. He
alleges that Pronto Dollars of Gilroy and Salinas filed a petition for political
asylum without his consent, an allegation the company is challenging in Monterey
County Superior Court. Asylum applications are rarely granted to Mexican
nationals, and it led Munoz into deportation proceedings.

Munoz couldn't be reached for comment Thursday, and one of his attorneys, Doris
Rose Inda of the East San Jose Community Law Center, declined to confirm whether
her client left the country.

A receptionist at Munoz's workplace said he reported for work Thursday morning,
despite a later statement by a supervisor who said Munoz quit the day before.
And the same son who said Munoz left for Mexico, had, hours earlier, stated that
his father was at work.

Munoz was ready to leave but was hoping to stay, Rose Inda said in an interview
earlier in the week. If he had stayed, she said, Munoz would have been granted
an opportunity to ask the INS for permission to remain at least through
completion of the civil case, which could take weeks or months to resolve.

By voluntarily leaving, Munoz would automatically face a 10-year ban from
re-entering the United States, his attorney said, adding that the same 10-year
penalty also would apply if he were removed at a later date.

INS officials said that undocumented immigrants who ignore a voluntary
deportation order typically receive a letter a month later asking them to leave.
The INS may arrest and remove an illegal immigrant about two weeks after the
letter is sent.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
Juan Munoz, left, with three of his seven children, may have abandoned a civil
suit against an immigration consultant. He reportedly returned to Mexico in
response to a voluntary deportation order from the INS.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 7, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE STATE OF IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: DAN WALTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 518 words


SEVEN years ago, Californians fought a wrenching political battle over
immigration and its effects, born of a deep recession and then-Gov. Pete
Wilson's need for an issue that he could ride to re-election.

Ultimately, after months of bitter debate, an overwhelmingly white electorate
passed Proposition 187, a Wilson-sponsored ballot measure that, if implemented,
would have denied public benefits, including education, to undocumented
immigrants.

The measure continued to reverberate for years after its passage, even after
federal courts declared its provisions invalid. The federal government reacted
with a toughening of the California-Mexico border. And Latino rights groups used
it to encourage immigrants to become citizens and vote.

The one thing that didn't happen was a marked reduction in the flow of
immigrants into the state, both legal and otherwise. Foreign immigration remains
the almost total source of California's population growth, a demographic fact
underscored by a new Census Bureau statistical analysis.

While just over 10 percent of all U.S. residents are foreign-born, the Census
Bureau report said, it's more than 25 percent in California, by far the highest
proportion of any state. Roughly a third of the million or so people who
annually immigrate to the United States settle in California and the state's
immigrant population is about a third of the national total.

The approximately 300,000 foreign immigrants who come to California each year
are augmented by about a quarter-million babies born in the state annually to
foreign-born mothers -- some 45 percent of the state's births. Andthe total of
those two numbers approximates California's annual net population growth.
Putting it another way, if foreign immigration were to cease, California's
population growth would be just about zero.

The effects of California's immigration-driven population growth are evident
everywhere, from the explosion of immigrant-owned technology and service
businesses to the difficulties by public schools in educating children from
dozens of linguistic backgrounds. But as the Census Bureau study and other data
indicate, one effect is to widen California's socioeconomic gaps.

Immigrants to the United States, the Census Bureau found, are much less likely
than non-immigrants to have obtained at least high school educations and much
more likely to be unemployed and/or mired in poverty.

If the socioeconomic divisions are widening, relations among the state's many
ethnic groups appear to be very calm seven years after Proposition 187 raged
across the land. A Public Policy Institute study found what it termed "an
encouraging level of satisfaction and consensus among (California's) major
racial and ethnic groups," despite strong disagreements about such specific
policies as affirmative action.

As immigration continues to push California's population upward, the underlying
socioeconomic disparities may well increase. And if another severe recession
visits itself on the state, might we see a renewal of Proposition 187-type
political tension as well?

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Immigration
Dan Walters is a Sacramento Bee columnist.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 8, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CEREMONY OFFERS THANKS FOR RENEWED AMNESTY HOPE SIKH CELEBRATION INCLUDES
RECOGNITION FOR LEADERS WHO FOUGHT FOR IMMIGRANTS WRONGLY DENIED BY U.S.

BYLINE: BECKY BARTINDALE, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 742 words


The day taxi driver Kirpal Bajwa started his quest to organize immigrants for
amnesty rights, he enlisted a priest and offered a prayer at a modest Sikh
temple in East San Jose.

Sunday, Bajwa fulfilled a pledge he made that day nearly three years ago: He had
vowed to organize a ceremony to thank God when hundreds of thousands of
immigrants, who had been denied amnesty, at last won the chance to become legal
United States residents.

That victory came Dec. 21, when President Clinton signed legislation that gives
about 400,000 immigrants who were wrongly denied amnesty in the 1980s a chance
to gain permanent residency.

And on Sunday, Bajwa stood before hundreds of Sikh worshipers at the temple, San
Jose Gurdwara Saheb on Quimby Road, to introduce others who helped lead the
fight. Among them were two Latinas from Houston; a Sikh leader from Washington,
D.C.; Ron Lind, a Bay Area labor leader; and Sandra Soto, representing a San
Jose congresswoman.

Although he said little at the solemn ceremony, Bajwa didn't avoid the limelight
altogether. Others recognized his work organizing the Northern California
chapter of the amnesty rights group ARCA, Association for Residency and
Citizenship of America.

Bajwa's activism cost him a lucrative taxi job last year after a newspaper story
revealed that he did not have a legal work permit.

"He did not get scared; he continued working. He redoubled his effort for the
cause," said Adriana Fernandez, an ARCA leader from Houston who flew in for the
event.

The all-volunteer organization orchestrated dozens of protests, rallies and
lobbying trips, including five that Bajwa's group made to Washington, D.C. The
goal was to call attention to the plight of immigrants who had been in the
United States since 1982, including many who had held valid work permits for
years until they were revoked.

"We had two choices," Fernandez said. "We could fight or leave."

The immigrants' quest to attain permanent legal status dates back to the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which granted amnesty to nearly 3
million people who lived illegally in the United States between 1982 and 1986.

At the time, INS workers refused to accept amnesty applications from anyone who
left the country, even briefly, during the amnesty-qualification period, but the
U.S. Supreme Court later ruled that was a mistake.

About 400,000 people were mistakenly rejected, but those applicants were allowed
to reapply. The INS now has until April 20 to establish rules for processing the
amnesty applications.

Bay Area Sikhs joined immigrants from Mexico and other countries to push for a
solution, enlisting the help of sympathetic legislators, including U.S. Rep. Zoe
Lofgren, D-San Jose.

Sunday's amnesty celebration in the prayer hall coincided with a religious
ceremony, conducted largely in Punjabi, celebrating the birth of the Sikh master
Guru Bobind Singh, known as champion for justice.

"As Sikhs we should fight for justice to the end. We should never give up," Dr.
Amarjit Singh, a Sikh leader with the Khalistan Affairs Center in Washington,
D.C., told the congregation.

Maria Jimenez, an American Friends Service Committee organizer from Houston,
attributed the amnesty movement's success to people coming together from
different communities.

"We lifted our voices in unity to those who have the power about the need to
correct the injustices," she said.

For many people, the long battle has kept their lives on hold.

Rao Karri, a San Jose resident who came to the United States as a teenager in
1980, said he has not been able to leave the country to see his mother in India
since 1989. Then, when his work permit was not renewed, he lost his job as a
production controller at Silicon Graphics Inc.

Now, he works washing dishes without a work permit and suffers from an ulcer and
migraine headaches from the stress of living in limbo.

"I can't be in my country, and I can't be here," he said. "I'm in between. But I
want to be centered here."

He has continued to upgrade his technical skills, looking forward to the time he
could work legally again in the high-tech industry.

He still considers the United States a land of opportunity -- opportunitieshe
intends to pursue vigorously once he gains legal status and gets a work permit.

"I kissed the ground when I came to this country," Karri said. "When I get that
piece of paper, I will kiss the ground again."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FIGHTING FOR AMNESTY
The new immigration law signed by Bill Clinton on Dec. 21 will:
Allow about 400,000 people to petition for permanent residency -- if they belong
to any of three class-action lawsuits filed after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service rejected their applications in the 1980s.
Allow eligible illegal immigrants to pay a $1,000 fine and file for residency
without having to leave the country to apply.
Establish a new visa for spouses and minor children of permanent residents who
have been stuck in a backlog to legally immigrate to the United States.
Source: U.S. Congress

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: GARY REYES - MERCURY NEWS
Members gather in prayer at the Sikh temple San Jose Gurdwara Saheb on Sunday. A
religious ceremony, conducted largely in Punjabi, celebrating the birth of a
Sikh master known as champion for justice coincided with the amnesty celebration
in the prayer hall.
PHOTO: GARY REYES - MERCURY NEWS
Kirpal Bajwa talks with members at the temple. He was recognized Sunday for
organizing an amnesty rights group.
PHOTO: GARY REYES - MERCURY NEWS
Three-year-old Marleen Kaur peers past others at the temple as she listens to
speakers during the ceremony recognizing leaders in the amnesty fight.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 12, 2001 Friday SAN FRANCISCO EDITION

CHORUS LOUDENS AGAINST NOMINEE TAKING RARE STANCE, JAPANESE-AMERICANS TO OPPOSE
ASHCROFT LOCAL HUMAN AND ETHNIC RIGHTS GROUPS GATHERED IN SAN FRANCISCO TO
DENOUNCE BUSH'S CABINET NOMINEE JOHN ASHCROFT, WHO THEY SAY IS AN "AFFRONT" TO
MINORITIES.

BYLINE: PUTSATA REANG, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 599 words


For the first time in its 73-year history, the Japanese American Citizens League
is taking a public stand against a Cabinet nominee -- and the group is far from
alone.

The league was one of seven local civil, human, immigration and reproductive
rights groups who held a press conference in San Francisco's Chinatown on
Thursday to denounce President-elect Bush's choice of former U.S. Sen. John D.
Ashcroft, R-Mo., as attorney general.

The press conference was just one of many held across the nation Thursday, as
conservatives rallied to support Ashcroft and liberals continued their assault
on his nomination.

"The JACL's mission is to maintain the well-being of citizens in the United
States," said John Tateishi, national executive director of the group. "If any
one candidate epitomizes the antithesis to our mission, it's John Ashcroft."

Members of the group gathered in Chinatown said Ashcroft's conservative views on
affirmative action, immigration, abortion, the death penalty and interracial
relationships make him the wrong person to represent the country in a role that
would directly affect legislation on such issues.

"This is a troubling step backward," said Joe Lucero, interim director of the
Northern California Coalition for Immigrant Rights.

Lucero said Ashcroft's nomination is an affront, especially to the immigrant
community. Members of the Chinese for Affirmative Action organization are
particularly concerned with what they contend is Ashcroft's repeated resistance
to confirmations of members of minority groups.

Ashcroft opposed President Clinton's 1997 appointment of Bill Lann Lee to head
the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice. A year later, he opposed
the confirmation of Susan Oki Mollway to serve as a federal district court
judge. Most recently, Ashcroft opposed Clinton's nomination of Ronnie White, the
first black judge on the Missouri Supreme Court.

"This appointment is just another slap in the face of people of color," said
Diane Chin, executive director of Chinese for Affirmative Action.

Maria Blanco, regional counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said Ashcroft poses a major threat to the Latino community.
She pointed to Ashcroft's vote against the Latino Immigration Fairness Act,
which would allow about 700,000 undocumented immigrants to apply for
citizenship.

The groups were encouraged to see Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., take a lead in
her public opposition to Ashcroft. Boxer on Wednesday became the first senator
to announce a "no" vote against the nominee and asked Bush to withdraw
Ashcroft's nomination.

Ashcroft supporters, however, are skeptical opponents can muster the necessary
51 votes from senators to reject the nomination. Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., has
predicted Ashcroft's confirmation after next week's hearings.

Ashcroft supporters gathered for their own news conferences Thursday, including
a victims-rights news conference in Washington, D.C., called by Sen. Jon Kyl,
R-Ariz., a Judiciary Committee member.

"We need a champion like him; that's the only way victims have a say," said
Darlene Hutchinson, an advocate for crime victims from Texas, who was kidnapped
and raped in 1987.

At another news conference, conservative women's groups denounced attacks on
Ashcroft from liberal groups.

"Not one critic has been able to point to a single instance in which John
Ashcroft allowed his personal political or religious beliefs to override his
sworn duty to uphold the law," said Janet Parshall, spokeswoman for the Family
Research Council.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Associated Press contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 20, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS TO HALT DEPORTATIONS TO QUAKE-TORN EL SALVADOR

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: EL SALVADOR


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said Friday that it would stop
deporting people to El Salvador indefinitely as the country struggles to recover
from last weekend's devastating earthquake.

There are about 1,100 Salvadorans in INS custody awaiting deportation, either
because they are in the United States illegally or because they have committed a
crime while here. The INS took a similar step in 1998, after Hurricane Mitch
ravaged the region.

An estimated 200,000 Salvadorans urgently needed food Friday, and relief workers
begged the rest of the world for more aid. Rains sweeping in from the north also
threatened to unleash fresh avalanches of earth and boulders.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 23, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISIT TO MEXICO TOPS BUSH'S TRAVEL AGENDA A DAY AT FOX'S RANCH: TALKS WILL FOCUS
ON IMMIGRATION, ILLEGAL DRUGS AND TRADE

BYLINE: RON HUTCHESON AND MORRIS THOMPSON, Mercury News Washington, Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush will take his first foreign trip as president next month to
Mexico, a destination that underscores his determination to pay more attention
to Latin America.

Bush will meet Mexican President Vicente Fox on Feb. 16 at Fox's ranch in San
Cristobal, in central Mexico. The one-day foray is a chance for Bush to test his
diplomatic skills on familiar turf while fulfilling a campaign promise to seek
better relations with the nation's nearest neighbors.

The former Texas governor came to the Oval Office with limited foreign policy
experience -- nearly all of it with the country that shares a 1,300-mile border
with his home state. Talks between the two leaders are expected to focus on
immigration, illegal drugs and trade.

Secretary of State Colin Powell will accompany Bush.

Rodolfo de la Garza, an expert on U.S.-Mexico relations at the University of
Texas-Austin, declared Bush's planned trip "a powerful symbol" even if it does
not result in major policy changes.

"The fact that he goes there first signals what he said during the campaign,
that Latin America would rise in importance, with Mexico being first among
equals," said de la Garza, vice president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute,
a Latin American studies center. "You can do nothing in Mexico and still look
good."

There are several topics that are very important to both leaders.

Fox seeks free movement for Mexican workers, not just goods, into the United
States under the North American Free Trade Agreement. He wants help from the
United States, Canada and their businesses to expand investment and employment
in the Mexican interior far from the U.S.-Mexican border. He also wants the U.S.
Congress to take a more lenient approach in evaluating Mexico's efforts in the
war on drugs, an evaluation that affects the trade status and foreign aid.

Bush, a staunch advocate of free trade, endorses Fox's desire to improve
Mexico's economy. But he has rejected the idea of a wide-open border. Bush
contends that the best way to stop illegal immigration is to expand Mexico's
middle class via increased trade between the two countries. In the meantime,
Bush promises to enforce U.S. immigration laws vigorously.

Despite policy differences, the two men share some similarities and seemed to
hit it off when they spent about an hour together in Dallas last August.

Like Bush, Fox often wears cowboy boots and loves the solitude of ranch life.
Both men can converse in each other's language. At their last meeting, Bush gave
Fox a Stetson hat. Fox reciprocated with a pair of black cowboy boots.

"Mexicans are very eager to have a much better relation than in the past and in
having it shaped by values such as friendship," Fox adviser Juan Hernandez said
Monday in an interview in Mexico City. "As Fox told a meeting of Fortune 500
executives, Mexico is changing, and we hope that the UnitedStates is willing to
change, too."

Fox, a former Coca-Cola executive and state governor, was elected in July and
took office last month, ending 71 years of rule by Mexico's Institutional
Revolutionary Party. While president-elect, Fox met with both Bush and then-Vice
President Al Gore before the U.S. election. He urged the victor to join him at
his ranch.

The timing for Bush and Fox is good. Both Mexico and the United States have new
presidents and new congresses, a circumstance that occurs only once every 12
years because of different election cycles.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Hutcheson reported from Washington, Thompson from Mexico City.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 23, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT STUDY SHOWS GREATER ASSIMILATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The assumption that immigrants are a burden to California's economy is
challenged by a study that found poverty levels have declined among long-term
foreign-born residents, researchers said Monday.

"Now that time has passed and they're staying longer, they become more
established," said the study's co-author, Dowell Myers, a demographics professor
at the University of Southern California.

The researchers commented on the study in advance of its scheduled release
today. The researchers used the censuses of 1970, 1980 and 1990, and the Current
Population Survey of March 2000 to measure poverty rates over three decades.

The study documents a decline in poverty levels among California immigrants the
longer they live in the state, the researchers said. Long-term residency and
assimilation have contributed to more skilled workers, homeowners and drivers,
Myers said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 16, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WATCHING THE BORDER BUSH'S FOREIGN POLICY WISELY BEGINS WITH CANADA, MEXICO

BYLINE: BEN WATTENBERG

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 792 words


WHEN Americans think of Canada, which is infrequently, we think of very nice
people and a very nice place. When Americans think of Mexico, we think
"immigrants" and "poor." We might do well to put some shadings on those
simplistic portraits.

President Bush has begun his term well and wisely on the domestic front by
"securing his base." He is wise to start out his foreign policy in the same
manner. Mexico and Canada are America's "base," and vice versa. It's fine to be
a master of the universe, but our safe spot on the North American continent is
at the root of American global security and stability. Bush's first official
foreign visitor was Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien. His first foreign
trip is to Mexico to visit with newly elected President Vicente Fox.

Canada is, by far, our largest trading partner, with more than $1 billion per
day crossing across the longest peaceful border in the world. That's almost all
to the good.

The "almost" concerns terrorism. Beneath the headlines, and mostly beneath the
radar, Canada has become a haven and a jumping-off point for terrorists with
America in their bomb sights. After the United States, Canada is home to the
most terrorist cells in the world. In December 1999, Ahmed Rassam, an Algerian
national, was apprehended crossing into the United States at Port Angeles, in
the state of Washington. He was carrying 100 pounds of powerful explosives, bent
on taking down the Seattle celebration of the millennium, which was subsequently
canceled because of the threat, of which Rassam was only a part. Investigators
later linked this case to a larger plot with ties to Saudi exile Osama bin
Laden.

The threat is real. Although we haven't been hit with a "big one" yet, we've
come close. In February 1993, a 1,200-pound nitrate car bomb killed six
Americans and injured more than 1,000 at the World Trade Center. Had the
circumstances played out differently, the loss of life could have been enormous.
Richard A. Clarke, the White House terrorism czar, has said there is a
100-percent certainty of a weapon of mass destruction being used for terrorism
in the United States within the next 10 years.

Canadians do not have a handle on dealing with terrorists. Canadian security
authorities are the first to admit that their asylum laws are extremely lax,
something like: "Admit first; ask questions later." Yes, Canadians are very nice
people. But everything is not fine.

If Canada poses more problems to the United States than you might think, perhaps
Mexico poses fewer.

Immigration is the big bogey man, but it is clearly destined to shrink. Why?
Mexico will run out of potential emigrants. How so? Mexico is becoming a modern
country. And modern countries have low birth rates.

Consider the Mexican total fertility rate -- that is, the average number of
children born to women during the course of their child-bearing years. Back in
the 1965-'70 time frame, that figure was 6.82 children per woman. According to
United Nations "medium variant" estimates, the 2000-2005 Mexican rate is 2.49
children per woman, and the low variant, which may be closer to the actual rate,
is 2.27, slated to shrink still further to 2.02 in 2005-2010. A total fertility
rate of 2.1 children per woman is the "replacement level," which, over time,
keeps a population stable, absent immigration.

From 6.8 children per woman to 2.3 in just 35 years! In short, a Mexican birth
dearth, going on right before our eyes, all while environmentalists and
nativists are slapping their tambourines, scaring us about an ongoing flood of
illegal immigrants. Ain't goin' to happen. (Actually, these days, many U.S.
citizens are settling in Mexico.)

Moreover, Mexico is climbing the economic ladder. According to the United
Nations, Mexico's per capita gross national product in 1999 was $7,719. That's a
long way from the U.S. figure of $30,600 or Canada's $23,725. But it's right in
league with Chile ($8,370), Malaysia ($7,953) and Turkey ($6,126) -- that is, in
the upper third of global income rankings, with Sierra Leone bringing up the
rear at $414. And growing smartly. In 2000, Mexico showed a robust growth rate
of 7 percent.

Vicente Fox, the man who broke the 70-year run of the statist PRI party, has
pledged to turn the Mexican economy toward free-market principles and away from
the endemic corruption that has plagued Mexico. There is no reason to think it
won't happen, although surely not by tomorrow morning. It's a long, hard path
awinding. But Mexico made real progress even with retrograde policies in a
corrupt environment. They're nice people, too. We are lucky tolive in a swell
neighborhood, and smart to do everything to make it better.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Canada and Mexico
Ben Wattenberg is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. He wrote
this for the Newspaper Enterprise Association.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PABLOS MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Bush meets with Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien in the Oval
Office of the White House on Feb. 5.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 20, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS HAS A HEART AFTER ALL U.S. WISE TO SUSPEND DEPORTING SALVADORANS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 396 words


ONE after another, natural disasters continue to slap El Salvador.

Last week, an earthquake killed more than 250 Salvadorans and flattened 13,000
homes. Just last month, an even more powerful quake took 700 lives and destroyed
70,000 homes.

All this in a tiny country that has yet to recover from its whipping from
Hurricane Mitch in 1998.

The U.S. government can ease the pain. It can continue to give a break to
Salvadorans in this country without the proper immigration papers.

Undocumented Salvadorans, who fled to this country by the thousands in the '80s
because of civil war, are subject to deportation. Before the January quake, the
Immigration and Naturalization Services had been sending 12,000 Salvadorans a
month back to their homeland.

But, mercifully, the INS has stopped deportations while U.S. Attorney General
John Ashcroft reviews whether Salvadorans here are eligible for what's called
"temporary protected status."

That status would allow natives of El Salvador already in this country to stay
for a year. It's granted in emergencies such as natural disasters or armed
conflicts.

If citizens of any nation deserve this protection, Salvadorans do.
Unfortunately, there's no clear indication of how or when the Bush
administration's new Justice Department officials -- who are still in transition
-- will decide.

These doubts lead us to support the speedy passage of legislation to stop the
deportation and detention of Salvadorans for a year while their country repairs
quake damage. Only Salvadorans who can document they were living in the United
States when the first quake struck would be eligible.

There are more than 100,000 undocumented Salvadorans in California, according to
estimates.

Introduced by U.S. Rep. Howard Berman, a Democrat who represents the San
Fernando Valley, the bill also would allow Salvadorans who qualify to work in
this country. They could travel home and return to the United States.

It would be inhumane for this country to send Salvadorans back to an
impoverished country devastated by a series of disasters. Letting them stayhere
for a year would be a small act on our country's part, with an enormous impact
on El Salvador. Now, more than ever, that country relies on undocumented
immigrants here to send dollars home and would have trouble absorbing deportees
with so many people homeless.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sisters Rosaura, 11, and Norma Martinez, 7, walk through the quake-devastated
town of Verapaz, 44 miles from San Salvador. Their country, shaken by two
earthquakes in a month, has yet to recover from Hurricane Mitch.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 8, 2001 Thursday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

REDDY PLEADS GUILTY TO FRAUD DECLARATION: LANDLORD ADMITS IMPORTING GIRLS FROM
INDIA FOR SEX, LABOR

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 756 words


In a weak, shaky voice, a 63-year-old Berkeley landlord pleaded guilty Wednesday
to charges that he brought young girls from India for sex and cheap labor, and
then apologized to his family for embarrassing them.

Lakireddy Bali Reddy's first public admission of guilt is a milestone in a
tantalizing case that sent shock waves through Silicon Valley, and his apology
was long awaited by women's groups and immigration rights advocates.

The story, when it broke in January 2000, exposed one of Berkeley's wealthiest
property owners for abusing the high-tech visa process to import immigrants for
his own gain.

"I brought victims . . . into the U.S. knowing they were minors and with the
intent to have sex with them," a tearful Reddy said to U.S. District Court Judge
Saundra Brown Armstrong. "I plead guilty, your honor."

Then he added, almost sobbing: "I want to apologize to you, the court, and to my
family for the shame I brought on them. I am very, very sorry."

Reddy pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit immigration fraud, two
counts of transporting a minor for illegal sex and one count of submitting a
false tax return in 1998 for lying about having foreign bank accounts in India.

The maximum penalty for these crimes is 38 years in prison. But under a
tentative plea agreement that must be approved by Armstrong, Reddy could spend a
maximum of six and a half years in prison and pay a restitution fee of $2
million to four girls from poor families in India with whom he admitted having
sex.

Also, in return for his guilty plea, the Alameda County District Attorney's
Office promised not to file criminal charges against him for the death of Chanti
Pratipatti, a pregnant 17-year-old who died in November 1999 of carbon monoxide
poisoning in a Reddy-owned Berkeley apartment because of a clogged heating vent.
Prosecutors also pledged not to file state criminal charges against Reddy for
unlawful sex with Chanti, and her sister and roommate -- also minors -- who
survived the poisoning.

Caller sparks probe

An anonymous caller to police after Chanti's death sparked the investigation
into longtime rumors that Reddy was importing impoverished immigrants from his
home state, Andhra Pradesh in southern India. Federal prosecutors charged Reddy
and four relatives for using fraudulent visas to bring over about 50 foreigners
since 1986 to work for less than minimum wage in Reddy's vast empire of 1,000
apartments and restaurants, including the popular Pasand eateries in the East
Bay and South Bay.

Immigrants rights groups were pleased Reddy will go to prison and pay his
victims. But they were upset that he won't be punished more severely for his sex
crimes.

"We're definitely disappointed," said Shaily Matani, a spokeswoman for the
Alliance of South Asians Taking Action, a group that has closely watched the
Reddy case and attended all of the court hearings. "Justice has not been fully
served."

Not enough focus

The organization has repeatedly complained that there has been too much emphasis
on Reddy's visa fraud crimes and not enough focus on his labor violations and
illegal sex acts.

But Alameda County District Attorney Tom Orloff said he is comfortable with not
pressing forward with any criminal charges.

"From looking at the evidence, what we really would have had is an unlawful sex
case," Orloff said, adding that the maximum sentence for having sex with a minor
is three years in prison. Orloff said it wasn't worth his office's resources to
go for that conviction, especially if Reddy could get off in half that time for
good behavior, and would be spending time in a federal prison.

Orloff also said there wasn't enough evidence to charge Reddy with involuntary
manslaughter in Chanti's death.

After his guilty plea, federal marshals immediately took Reddy, crying
anddabbing his eyes with a white handkerchief, into custody.

Both his defense attorney, Ted Cassman, and Assistant U.S. Attorney John
Kennedy, requested that Reddy remain out of custody until his formal sentencing
so that he could sell some of his properties, worth at least $50 million, to
come up with the $2 million. But Armstrong said the law did not allow her to
make that exception for Reddy, who pleaded guilty to the "violent" crime of
transporting minors for illegal sex.

Earlier this week, Reddy's brother, Jayaprakash Lakireddy, and his
sister-in-law, Annapurna Lakireddy, pleaded guilty to one count each of
immigration fraud. They could spend a year in prison.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no photo credit given]
Reddy
Could spend six and a half years in prison and pay $2 million in restitution

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 10, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW STATE AGENCY TO HELP IMMIGRANTS OUTREACH, EDUCATION OFFICE WILL EXPLAIN
CIVIL RIGHTS, CONSUMER-PROTECTION LAWS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 363 words


Recognizing that California continues to be a magnet for immigrants, the state
acted Friday to better serve its foreign-born population, some of whom are
victims of fraud and exploitation.

The newly created Office of Immigrant Assistance will focus on providing
education and outreach to inform immigrants about consumer-protection and civil
rights laws.

"California is the most diverse region in the world, with 244 different
languages spoken here," Attorney General Bill Lockyer said in a prepared
statement.

"I want to ensure that Californians who happen to be new immigrants have the
benefit of protection under our laws, and that there is truly 'justice for all'
in California," he said.

The creation of the office was spurred in part by a growing number of complaints
from immigrants who have been defrauded by private consultants who promise to
help obtain residency cards and citizenship but are often unqualified to provide
that type of assistance.

A number of immigrants, particularly Latinos, have been deported after receiving
bad advice from unqualified consultants.

Immigration consultant fraud is a violation of state law, but victims, who often
are in the United States illegally, are reluctant to report such crimes to local
authorities. The attorney general's office plans to change that by forwarding
complaints to appropriate law enforcement agencies and at the same time
educating immigrants to use the legal system to seek redress.

"This is very good news," said Vu Van Loc, executive director of the Immigrant
Resettlement and Cultural Center in San Jose, a non-profit agency that teaches
English to Southeast Asians.

"Anything they do is a step in the right direction," said Scott Maurer, a staff
attorney with the East San Jose Community Law Center, which frequently hears
from victims of immigration consultant fraud.

The law center educates immigrants about their consumer rights at weekly
workshops. For example, many immigrants, Maurer said, don't know that it is
illegal for a car salesman to deal in a foreign language yet write up a contract
in English.

"There's a lot of non-compliance of that statute," Maurer said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 24, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MERCURY NEWS SERIES WINS AWARD

BYLINE: THE MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 225 words


Fredric N. Tulsky, an investigative reporter for the San Jose Mercury News, has
won the 2001 Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Award for his series on abuses in the
United States' asylum system, "Uncertain Refuge."

The awards, founded in 1968 by reporters who covered Robert F. Kennedy's
presidential campaign, honor outstanding reporting on the problems of the
disadvantaged.

Tulsky's four-part series reported that refugees who come to the United States
to escape persecution in their homelands risk immediate deportation when they
arrive at airports, or jail in Immigration and Naturalization Service
facilities, despite policies designed to protect them.

He also documented for the first time that the immigration judges vary so much
in their decisions that the fate of asylum seekers is often settled, in effect,
by which judge is assigned to hear their case.

Tulsky, 50, began his investigation while on an Alicia Patterson Foundation
fellowship and joined the Mercury News in August 2000. He previously reported
for the Philadelphia Inquirer, where he won a Pulitzer Prize for investigative
reporting in 1987, and the Los Angeles Times.

"Uncertain Refuge" won the Kennedy Award in the domestic print category. The
grand-prize winner this year is "Nightline," for a series on inner-city schools.
The awards will be presented May 2.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Tulsky

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 30, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASIAN-AMERICANS POST BIGGEST GAINS HIGH TECH DRIVES IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1594 words


Fueled by immigration tied to the high-tech boom, Asian-Americans in California
and across the nation reached record numbers in the past decade, becoming the
fastest-growing ethnic minority group in the nation.

At 4.2 million, Asians now make up 12 percent of the state's population,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau. California's Asian population posted a 55
percent growth rate between 1990 and 2000, outpacing all other groups in the
state.

The remarkable population growth reverberated from Silicon Valley to
Raleigh-Durham, N.C., to new high-tech hubs in the South where Asians are
infusing new elements and complexities into America's views on race as they move
eastward in greater numbers.

"It's a breathtaking transformation when you think that in the 1970s, there were
only 1.4 million Asians in the country and now there are 11 million," said L.
Ling-chi Wang, a professor of Asian-American studies at the University of
California-Berkeley.

"It's taken a long time for politicians and social scientists and media to
realize that America's racial complexity has gone far beyond black and white,"
Wang said.

And Asians as a group are extremely diverse. The Census Bureau defines Asians as
Asian Indians, Chinese, Filipinos, Japanese, Koreans and Vietnamese.

Among the Bay Area's larger cities, Asian population growth has been strongest
in Fremont, San Jose, Hayward, Sunnyvale, Union City, Cupertino, Palo Alto,
Milpitas and Santa Clara, all posting growth rates of more than 75 percent.
Among counties with the largest numbers of Asians, Santa Clara County grew the
fastest, at 84 percent. In Alameda, Santa Clara, San Francisco and San Mateo
counties, Asians now make up a larger percentage of the county's population than
Latinos, and are second only to whites.

"Basically, I thought that Silicon Valley was a temple, the home of all
innovation," said K.B. Chandrasekhar, the 40-year-old founder of Exodus, a Santa
Clara-based Web hosting company that was valued last year at $20 billion and
today employs 4,000 people.

Chandrasekhar immigrated from southern India in 1990 on an H-1B visa and now
lives in Cupertino. He found his investors through The IndUS Entrepreneurs, or
TiE , the high-tech networking organization that helped launch the businesses of
young Indo-Americans who went on to build some of the biggest and most
successful Internet companies of the 1990s.

A decade ago, TiE was strictly a Silicon Valley phenomenon. Today, TiE has
chapters in new technology hubs with some of the fastest-growing Asian
populations: Austin, Boston, Raleigh, Dallas, Atlanta and Seattle. Chandrasekhar
has satellite offices in many of the same cities.

Each decade since 1970, the growth of the Asian population in California has
been defined by key events. The lifting of a 1965 U.S. ban on immigrants from
Asia ushered in an unprecedented number of immigrants in the 1970s. The 1980s
brought a new kind of immigrant: political refugees from Vietnam, Cambodia and
Laos who eventually settled in great numbers in California.

But in the 1990s, the growth of the Asian community was marked by a change like
no other in history -- a high-tech boom that connected Asia to other technology
hubs around the country. In some small cities and counties in the South, Asians
have become the largest ethnic group, equal to or surpassing African Americans
or Latinos.

Their move to the East goes against a national population shift to the South and
West, and mirrors high-tech expansion.

"That's exactly the trend you'd find in fiber optics," remarked T.J. Lu, a
director of marketing and sales at Pine Photonics Communications Inc. in
Fremont.

Lu, 33, who lives in Fremont, immigrated from southern China in 1995. He
remembers when fiber-optic companies were concentrated in the western states.

"Now we're talking about fiber optics everywhere. To me, this is why you find
Chinese in not-so-traditional places," Lu said.

Experts estimate that about 1 million legal immigrants a year -- more than a
third of them from India, Taiwan and China -- arrived in the United States
during the 1990s, many of them on work visas called H-1B, the work engine of
U.S. high technology.

In Beaverton and Aloha, suburban communities just outside Portland, Ore.,
Indo-American and Chinese communities are clustered around Intel, the state's
biggest employer. In Austin, Asian growth is centered around Samsung and the
University of Texas.

And as Asian communities grew, new Asian business corridors formed in places
like the Buford corridor just outside of Montgomery County, Md., Fairfax, Va.,
and Atlanta.

In some counties and cities in Virginia, North Carolina and Georgia, Asians make
up the largest single ethnic group, a change being witnessed for the first time
in the South.

"What it does is force the discussion particularly around race relations as
being much more complex," said Michael Omi, a professor of ethnic studies at the
University of California-Berkeley.

In California, the impact of demographic change is most visible at the local
level.

Ten years ago, the Indo-American Community Center in Santa Clara catered to six
or seven families. Today, the two-room center in an office complex is "bulging
at the seams," said executive director Sam Rao.

One recent Wednesday, the modest community room was jammed with about 100
Indo-American seniors, most of whom had endured two-hour bus rides to get there,
for their weekly and only chance to lunch and gab with other seniors from their
homeland.

"There was no place to go to for anything like this 10 years ago," remarked
Darshan Singh, 70, a retired farmworker from San Jose. Now, Singh helps run a
lunch program overrun by Indo-American seniors, many of whom immigrated from
India in the past decade with their adult children.

Rao remembers the days when an organized event failed to draw a few hundred
people. Now most of the Indo-American events sell out. The center is looking to
relocate to accommodate a growing community.

California's Asian population has always been a mix of cultures. Chinese,
Japanese and Filipinos at the end of the 19th century were the largest groups.
But perhaps more than any other decade since the 1960s, the 1990s defined an
Asian-American community that has become as diverse as the continent from which
it draws immigrants.

If Asians are to become political power brokers at the state and federal levels,
they must transcend not just wide breaches of culture and language -- Hindi and
Korean, Tagalog and Mandarin -- but ancient histories of religious and cultural
biases as well.

"You have incredible diversity which makes easy assumptions about this group
very difficult. It would be difficult to find a unified voice," Omi said.

But to Wang of Berkeley, there is a bigger challenge.

"I'm concerned that a lot of Asian-Americans don't understand or don't really
appreciate the contributions of African Americans to protect the civil rights of
Asian-Americans," Wang said.

"There's a Chinese saying: When you drink the water, remember the source. I hope
that when Asian-Americans now enjoy a high degree of freedom and equality, we
have to remember where this enjoyment came from and to be vigilant," he said.

In the United States, Asians make up 2.8 percent of the population. The
community reached its highest visibility yet in American politics when President
George W. Bush appointed two Asian-Americans to the Cabinet, but in terms of
political participation and representation, it has a distance to travel before
catching up with Latinos and blacks.

But its seven-fold growth since 1970 -- from 1.4 million to 11.1 million today
-- is making marketers and economists take notice. According to marketing
experts, the U.S. Asian market has an annual buying power of $254 billion. The
largest slice of that market can be found in Northern California.
Asian-Americans wield their most influential tool in their economic strength as
they work for greater political empowerment.

Asians have brought greater diversity to America's population, but diversity has
always defined America, said demographer John Haaga of the Population Reference
Bureau in Washington, D.C.

"Eighty years ago, there were Jews, Italians, Ukrainians, Czechs, Slovaks living
in separate blocks and not having any common language. And now nobody thinks of
them as diverse. They're non-Hispanic whites. We define them by what they're
not. We no longer think of the differences among them," Haaga said.

"I'm not saying Asians will disappear like that or not feel a connection to
their culture," he said. "It's not they that will get lost in American culture.
They will change the culture and they will shape it."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
ASIAN-AMERICANS IN CALIFORNIA
Here's a look at the top 10 cities in California with the largest Asian-American

 populations.
City                     Total           Total Asian      % of Change
Population 2000  Population 2000 from 1990-2000
Los Angeles                 3,694,820       406,028         26.6%
San Jose                      894,943        258,797         76.6
San Francisco                 776,733        256,057         24.5
San Diego                   1,223,400        193,446         56.7
Fremont                       203,413         81,715        150.9
Sacramento                    407,018         80,895         52.1
Long Beach                    461,522         68,739         24.5
Oakland                       399,484         68,153         28.5
Daly City                     103,621         56,171           44
Stockton                      243,771         54,675         20.9
Source: U.S. Census Bureau

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Census 2000
A Mercury News Special Report
See related stories: pages 1A and 20A-22A
FASTEST-GROWING GROUP
Mercury News database editor Griffin J. Palmer and Mercury News database analyst
Seth Hemmelgarn contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: EUGENE H. LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
At the Filipino American Community Center in San Jose, volunteer Perpetua
Alipuro serves a St. Patrick's Day lunch to, from left, Apolonia Manaois,
Hernando Manaois and Olivia Suarez.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 5, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S., MEXICO BEGIN WORK ON IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: MEXICO


The top foreign-policy and justice officials of the United States and Mexico
vowed Wednesday to make their shared border a friendlier place by allowing
additional Mexican workers to cross legally and curbing the abuse of illegal
immigrants.

Secretary of State Colin Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft met at the
State Department with Mexican Foreign Secretary Jorge Castaneda and Interior
Secretary Santiago Creel to begin drafting an immigration policy for the new
administrations in Washington and Mexico City.

U.S. officials said both governments hope to produce ideas that President Bush
and Mexican President Vicente Fox can discuss when they meet April 20-22 at a
Western Hemisphere summit in Quebec City.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 28, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUNDREDS CROWD INS OFFICE TO BEAT DEADLINE FOR RESIDENCY

BYLINE: JOHN HUBNER, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 845 words


Caught in a last-minute rush, hundreds of frustrated people have been camping
outside the San Jose INS office all night long -- just hoping to get through the
door.

Some have been waiting up to 24 hours for a chance to apply for green cards
before a crucial Monday deadline.

As the cutoff fast approaches, the lines have been getting longer -- and tempers
shorter.

Undocumented immigrants have been flooding the office for days. If they miss the
cutoff, they will have to return to their home countries and wait up to 10 years
to apply for legal status.

On Thursday night, about 300 people camped out in chilly weather in front of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service office on Monterey Road.

One Indian doctor, who didn't want to give his name, said he waited 25 1/2 hours
just to get through the door. The man, who was trying to get some important
paperwork for his wife, had arrived at 5:30 a.m. only to find about 400 people
ahead of him.

From the door, the line moved along the big gray building, made a right angle at
a wall, made another right angle and snaked through a parking lot. Couples were
snuggled close in sleeping bags, people were bundled in down jackets, music was
playing softly on a dozen boomboxes.

The grounds were filthy. Plastic food trays, soda bottles and old newspapers
were strewed everywhere. Five blue portable toilets were overflowing and out of
toilet paper. The smell was horrible.

"We stood by those things for an hour and a half this afternoon," said Enrique
Jimenez, 22, who works for Office Depot in Fremont.

For people in the line, the stakes were high.

They were there because in December, Congress added section 245(i) to the Legal
Immigration Family Equity Act, which allows "out of status" immigrants to file
for green cards and adjust their status without leaving the country. To be
eligible, immigrants must be married to an American citizen, have a parent or a
sibling who is a citizen or legal resident, or be sponsored by an employer.

After 245(i) expires Monday, illegal immigrants face options that can be
described as bad and really bad. They can remain in the United States as illegal
immigrants indefinitely. Or, if they pursue legal status, they will have to
return to their home countries to file for green cards.

If the INS determines an immigrant was in this country illegally for more than
six months, he or she must wait three years before applying for a green card. If
the INS discovers the person was here illegally for more than a year, a 10-year
wait is required.

Faced with those alternatives, Joel and Lisa, who did not want their last names
used, moved their wedding from August to the middle of April. Marrying Joel, an
American citizen, made Lisa, who is an undocumented immigrant, eligible to apply
for her green card under 245(i).

If the couple could not get through the INS doors by Monday night, they feared,
they would have to cross the border and live in Mexicali, Lisa'shometown. Lisa
has asthma; the air over Mexicali is polluted. Joel works in Internet service
sales. There is not much Internet work in Mexicali.

As the hours passed and tension grew, Lisa had a run-in with one of the guards
outside the INS office Thursday afternoon. "These people are very mean; they
don't give you information," Lisa said.

The guards are under contract and are not INS employees. On Friday morning,
person after person besieged them with policy questions they were not trained to
answer.

People in line complained that nobody from the INS was available to answer their
questions, as airline personnel do when lines grow long at ticket counters.

"We send officers outside all the time to work the lines," said Sharon Rummery,
an INS spokeswoman.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren said the INS needs to modernize its operations so it can offer
better service.

"It is outrageous. No business would treat people the way the INS is," she said.
"The INS is a dysfunctional agency operating with 1960s technology."

But Rummery said the agency has been working hard to improve service: "Always,
always call customer service first; it can save you a long wait in line."

Friday morning, shortly after the doors opened, Joel and Lisa found out they
will not have to move to Mexicali.

"It turned out OK in the end; we got the authorizations," Joel said.

Outside the INS office, Heidi and Oscar Alfaro were standing in a line of about
200 people, hoping they were not too late to apply under 245(i). The INS forms
were so complicated, the Alfaros had hired an immigration attorney to fill them
out. The attorney had just completed the forms.

The Alfaros worried about meeting the deadline. But Rummery said the INS will
extend its hours Monday and guaranteed that all who show up that day will get
their 245(i) applications processed.

"We will be open until midnight on Monday," Rummery said. "We will take every
single application. If we don't get to them Monday, we'll give them appointments
for later. Nobody will miss out this chance to get this key to the golden door."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
An officer at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in San Jose,
above, talks last month with people trying to become legal residents.
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Alvaro Bejur, left, waited at a window for forms to attain U.S. citizenship.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 28, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WOMAN'S DEATH MEANS MOTHER TO BE DEPORTED LEGAL GROUNDS TO STAY IN U.S. LOST

BYLINE: JUSTIN PRITCHARD, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Last week, 73-year-old Zhenfu Ge lost her daughter to cancer. And because of the
death, Ge also lost her legal right to stay in America.

If her daughter, Yanyu Wang, had survived until Thursday, Ge would have left her
hearing before the Immigration and Naturalization Service as a permanent
resident of the United States.

But her chances of staying legally in the United States died with her daughter,
an American citizen who was sponsoring Ge's green card application. Ge now faces
deportation to China and separation from the grandchildren she promised a dying
Wang she would help raise.

"It's very hard for me to leave them here," Ge said through an interpreter
Thursday after an INS officer told her she has to leave the country. "This is
something I cannot do."

But the law clearly says Ge cannot stay, according to INS spokeswoman Sharon
Rummery.

"Your heart goes out, you know," she said. "It's unfortunate, but it happens."

Ge's application appeared to have been a sure thing.

John Mark, Wang's husband, who lives with Ge and his two children in Sausalito,
said he was even told that if his wife were alive, Ge would have gotten a green
card.

Because he is a son-in-law and not a blood relative, Mark cannot take overGe's
green card application.

Since spring 1998, Ge has been in the Bay Area taking care of her 3-year-old
granddaughter and 12-year-old grandson. That summer, Wang was naturalized as a
U.S. citizen and immediately filed as a sponsor for her mother's green card.

The INS set Thursday for Ge's hearing to become a permanent resident. But then,
on April 15, Wang succumbed to lymphoma.

Ge next will receive a letter asking her to leave the country. If she remains
and the INS finds out, she will face deportation.

Ge could appeal the deportation order, but that would only postpone her
departure temporarily because immigration lawyers who have reviewed the case
agree she has no legal grounds to stay.

Mark is considering a lasting solution. He could appeal a deportation order,
though a reversal is rare. He also has contacted federal lawmakers, asking them
to shepherd through Congress legislation specifically allowing Ge to get a green
card.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ERIC RISBERG -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Zhenfu Ge, 73, spends time Wednesday with son-in-law John Mark and grandchildren
Yichao Wang, 12, and Lily Mark Wang, 3. Ge faces deportation because of the
death of the daughter who was sponsoring her green card application.
PHOTO: Wang

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 4, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

KIM JONG IL'S SON EXPELLED FROM JAPAN? MAN SAYS HE WAS HEADED TO TOKYO
DISNEYLAND

BYLINE: MICHAEL ZIELENZIGER, Mercury News Tokyo Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


A man believed to be the son of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il was deported to
China today after being arrested by Japanese immigration officials on suspicions
he was trying to enter Japan on a forged passport.

The man, thought to be Kim Jong Nam, 29, next in line to lead the communist
nation, was taken in a police van with a patrol car escort to Narita
International Airport, just outside Tokyo, from a nearby immigration office.

Under heavy security, he was put on an All Nippon Airways flight to Beijing.

The man, apparently on his way to Tokyo Disneyland, had been held Thursday in a
detention center, Japanese media reported, after he and three others tried to
enter the country Tuesday afternoon through Narita International Airport using
fake Dominican Republic travel documents.

Officials said the man told them he had come to Japan simply to visit a theme
park. "I wanted to go to Disneyland," officials quoted him as saying. Two women
and a 4-year-old boy accompanied the man on a Japan Airlines flight from
Singapore.

Tokyo Disneyland is less than an hour from the airport. The park is, for the
most part, a replica of the original Disney theme park in Anaheim, and it draws
huge crowds from throughout Japan and across Asia.

Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi released a statement saying the man's
identity was being investigated.

If the man is indeed the son of North Korea's reclusive leader, the case
presented Japan with a dilemma. North Korea, considered a "rogue state" by the
United States, has fired a ballistic missile over Japanese territory and is
accused of having kidnapped Japanese children nearly two decades ago. It has
also been accused in drug and diamond smuggling and counterfeiting.

Japan did not want to exacerbate tensions with North Korea at a time when Kim
Jong Il is beginning to reach out to the rest of the world. But trying to enter
Japan using forged documents is a crime, and police officials believed they have
ample reason to hold the man suspected of being Kim's son. The two nations have
no diplomatic ties.

"There are more than sufficient grounds for arresting and investigating him," a
police official told the Mainichi Shimbun newspaper.

Officials told the Kyodo news service the date of birth on the man's passport is
May 10, 1971, the same as Kim Jong Nam's, and that the man lookslike the North
Korean leader's son.

South Korean newspapers previously have reported that Kim Jong Nam has worked
for the North Korean National Intelligence Agency and is widely reported to be
an Internet buff.

Though details of his family life are murky, his mother is said to be a former
actress, Song Hye Rim, who never married Kim Jong Il.

Reports today said the fake passport showed that the man had entered Japan last
year, and officials said they believe he was the "polite young man" who had
toured Japan and gone to Disneyland in 1995. Authorities had followed him then,
according to the Japanese newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun, but had not known his
identity.

The possibility of Kim's presence had prompted Koizumi, Japan's new prime
minister, to huddle with aides during a week of holidays. The decision to expel
the man, said to be the usual procedure for persons caught with false documents,
could avoid further complicating already tense relations with North Korea.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 10, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOOM OF LATINOS DRIVEN BY GROWTH OF MEXICAN GROUP CENSUS DATA SHOWS HIGH INFLUX,
BIRTHRATE

BYLINE: TONY PUGH, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The surge in the nation's Latino population in the 1990s was due mainly to a 53
percent increase in the number of people of Mexican heritage.

Expansive immigration and a steady birthrate drove the number of Mexican
descendants in the United States from 13.5 million in 1990 to 20.6 million in
2000, according to census data released today.

People of Mexican origin, who now make up 58 percent of the nation's 35.3
million Latinos, are by far the fastest-growing segment of the United States'
Latino population.

The number of Puerto Rican and Cuban descendants, the nation's second- and
third-largest Latino groups, grew by 25 percent and 19 percent. Census 2000
counted 3.4 million Puerto Ricans who were not living in the U.S. commonwealth
and 1.2 million Cubans.

Immigration may account for up to half of the 58 percent growth in the U.S.
Latino population during the 1990s, said Charles Keely, professor of
international migration at Georgetown University. The census counted 22.4
million Latinos in 1990.

The new census study also details the relative youth and residential
distribution of Latinos, America's largest ethnic group.

Half of all Latinos live in Texas and California, and 77 percent (27.1 million
people) live in seven states: California, Texas, New York, Florida, Illinois,
Arizona and New Jersey.

A new study by the Urban Institute, a Washington-based public-policy research
group, says low-income jobs in some states are attracting immigrants, more than
half of whom are Latino.

The nation's Latinos are a relatively youthful group because of generally higher
birth and fertility rates and the migration of youngsters from foreign
countries, Keely said. The median age for Latinos was 25.9 compared with 35.3
for the United States as a whole, the census found.

The data released Wednesday creates a mystery: For the first time, a huge number
of Latinos, more than 6 million, declined to identify the country where they or
their ancestors were born.
The Washington Post contributed to this article.

Contact Tony Pugh at tpugh@krwashington.com.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
U.S. Hispanics
Source: U.S. Census Bureau

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Washington Post contributed to this article.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 14, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL WOULD ALTER RULES FOR CHILDREN LIKE ELIAN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 89 words


With memories still fresh of the chaos that followed Elian Gonzalez's arrival on
Florida shores, Dianne Feinstein and other senators are sponsoring legislation
that would change the way in which unaccompanied immigrant minors who arrive in
the United States illegally are treated by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The new legislation would not alter the standards for granting such asylum.
Rather the bill spells out how the minors are to be housed, counseled and
educated while they await a decision on their cases.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 18, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SHEEN GREETED WITH PROTEST AS HE ATTENDS AWARDS DINNER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 162 words


Actor Martin Sheen was the target of a demonstration Wednesday as he stopped in
Philadelphia to pick up an award for his work on behalf of the civil rights of
immigrants.

About 100 supporters of the family of slain police officer Daniel Faulkner
picketed outside the Wyndham Franklin Plaza Hotel on Wednesday night, where
Sheen was given the SOLAS award by the Philadelphia Immigration Resource Center.

The demonstrators were protesting the attention being given to Sheen, who is
among many national and international celebrities and politicians who have taken
up the cause of Faulkner's convicted murderer: former radio broadcaster and
radical Mumia Abu-Jamal.

Sheen said he was sorry that he had not had a chance to talk to the
demonstrators. He said he thought he and they had more in common than they
realized. "I'm never bothered by demonstrators," said Sheen, who plays the
president on the NBC television series "The West Wing." "I've been one myself."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: People in the News

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: BOB GALBRAITH -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Martin Sheen, pictured in October 2000, plays the president on NBC's drama "The
West Wing."

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 22, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ATTORNEY GENERAL PUSHES SAFE IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: MARK STEVENSON, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 375 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


John Ashcroft stressed border security and safe immigration Monday in his first
journey outside the United States as attorney general, a trip he said was
symbolic of closer relations with Mexico.

Fresh from a tour of the two countries' common border, Ashcroft said the Bush
administration will send Congress a program that would grant Mexican immigrants
guest worker visas.

He said the Bush administration is not demanding any specific measures to reduce
illegal immigration in return, although officials would like to see both
countries dedicate more resources to border areas.

"As did President Bush, I chose Mexico as my first international visit, to
underscore the importance of the bilateral relationship," Ashcroft told
reporters.

Bush visited Mexico on Feb. 16, meeting with Vicente Fox less than three months
after the Mexican president took office and pledging closer cooperation with the
United States' southern neighbor.

Ashcroft spoke after a two-hour meeting with his Mexican counterpart, Rafael
Macedo, that focused on drugs and weapons trafficking, money laundering and
joint efforts to educate prosecutors and police.

Ashcroft refused to comment on reports that the Secret Service was going to set
up an office in Mexico or that the FBI would establish a permanent training
facility for Mexican police.

Much of their talks focused on pursuing fugitives who flee across the border,
and ways to ensure they are extradited and convicted.

Ashcroft signed an agreement with Macedo to allow suspects who face trial in
both countries to be tried in one -- and then be immediately extradited for
trial in the other -- before serving any jail time in either.

Ashcroft said he was "pleased to say we are open to a guest worker program," the
kind that once allowed Mexicans temporary permits for U.S. agricultural jobs.

He said he was awaiting Mexican proposals on the specifics of the program,
including how many visas should be included.

"Our first priority is border safety," Ashcroft said.

Ashcroft, Secretary of State Colin Powell, Mexican Foreign Relations Secretary
Jorge Castaneda and Mexican Interior Secretary Santiago Creel are part of a
working group that will decide on a joint proposal by summer.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no credit given]
Ashcroft

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 23, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GROWING HOUSEHOLDS SET BAY AREA APART AGAINST U.S. TREND: HOME PRICES, IMMIGRANT
FAMILY VALUES ARE FACTORS

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN AND SUE MCALLISTER, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1111 words


Bucking a national trend, the size of the typical Bay Area household increased
over the last decade, as immigration and high housing costs changed the way many
people live.

The trend was particularly pronounced in working-class communities, where
families have doubled up and tripled up to afford the high housing prices. But
in the most affluent communities, buoyed by the high-tech boom, the household
pattern was closer to the nation's.

The average household size grew statewide as well, although for different
reasons in different places.

In San Jose, it was because more people are living with their extended families.
In San Francisco, it was roommates. And in East Palo Alto, where household size
grew more than any other city in California, it was both.

The California phenomenon runs counter to a longstanding national trend of
shrinking household size, as baby boomers' grown children left home, women had
fewer babies and more people lived alone.

"California has some different trends than the rest of the nation," said Hans
Johnson, a demographer with the Public Policy Institute of California. "They
reflect how unique California is in terms of its demography and housing prices."

Indeed, for the first time, the number of housing units built in California grew
more slowly than the nation as a whole. Nationally, the number went up 13
percent. In California, it went up 9 percent. In the Bay Area, it grew 8
percent.

"Everyone who thinks California is this place that's adding a tremendous number
of new housing tracts and urban sprawl might be surprised to find that we're not
doing that as fast as the rest of the United States," Johnson said.

California also diverged from the nation in another important respect. While the
number of people living alone grew 21 percent nationally, it grewjust 11.5
percent in California, although the nation and the state grew at almost the same
rate.

In the Bay Area, the number grew 9 percent. In San Francisco it grew just 6
percent. Demographers said the trends, especially in San Francisco, were most
likely the result of high California housing prices.

Much variety

But even within the Bay Area, where the state's housing shortage is most acute,
household size dropped in some cities.

In wealthy communities, such as Los Altos, Hillsborough and Woodside, household
size went down slightly, although not as much as it did nationally.

But in cities with large immigrant populations, such as San Jose and East Palo
Alto and especially along the working-class corridor of the East Bay, household
size went up, sometimes dramatically.

Partly, this is because many residents come from countries where there is a
strong tradition of living in extended families. But it's also driven by
economics.

Often in these cities, whole families moved into basements, attics and garages.

Mike Hannon, a code-enforcement administrator with San Jose's planning
department, sees the telltale signs -- a window or entryway cut into the garage
door -- as he drives down many city streets.

"The houses are tract homes that have three or four bedrooms," he said. "There's
simply not enough rooms to accommodate the extended family."

East Palo Alto is the place where these changes have been most evident.

The average household size there went up by almost an entire person between 1990
and 2000 -- from 3.31 to 4.2. Demographers said it reflected the influx of
Latino immigrants. High housing prices also probably play a role. As of April,
the median housing price in East Palo Alto was $420,000.

Another number paints the change in even starker terms: While the number of
households in the city grew less than 1 percent, the number of people living in
them grew 27 percent. Extended family and roommates grew much faster than
children.

Enrique Lopez, for example, lives with nine relatives..

Buying the house was the fulfillment of a dream for Lopez, who owns a trucking
company. But he wishes he could have more space.

"A little house with three bedrooms is not enough for us, because we are too
many people," he said, lamenting that housing prices have risen so high he may
not be able to buy a second home. When he first considered buying a home three
years ago, he looked at one priced at $125,000. When he finally bought, he had
to pay $330,000. "It's too expensive."

Immigrants aren't the only ones living in close quarters. As housing prices rose
in San Francisco, the number of roommates grew by a third, although the city
population grew just 8 percent.

"I live with roommates because I can't afford living by myself," said Stephanie
Blackwood, 24, who shares a rented three-bedroom apartment in San Francisco's
Haight-Ashbury district with two roommates and a cat.

Roommates needed

The rent is $2,500 a month, of which Blackwood pays $900.

"My last apartment was a studio that I had alone, but it was in a very bad
neighborhood," she said. "I decided that I would rather live in a nice place and
be safe, and that meant living with roommates."

However, the number of people living in extended families also grew in San
Francisco, where the Asian population grew faster than the city as a whole.

It won't be possible to tease out how much of the household growth is due to
high housing costs and how much is due to immigration until later this year,
when more detailed census data is released.

"We're looking at the tip of the iceberg here," said Dowell Myers, professor of
urban planning and demography at the University of Southern California's School
of Policy, who said the changes in California's household composition were
actually less than he had expected.

The census also may have understated some of the household growth, especially in
rental units.

Noeun Nancy Thang, a student at San Jose State University, helped people fill
out their census forms in San Jose last year.

She said renters regularly under-reported the number of people in their
households.

"If they're not on the list of people that are allowed to live there, they don't
put that down," she said.

The only state that saw a bigger increase in household size than California was
Nevada, which has had a lot of domestic migration from California and other
states. Many of those migrants came in search of jobs and affordable housing,
Johnson said, and most likely had small children, something that drives up
household size.

CHART: KARL KAHLER -  MERCURY NEWS
CHANGING HOUSEHOLDS
[Chart not in database]
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
CHART:  MERCURY NEWS
HOUSEHOLD CHANGES
[Chart not in database]

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 2000 Census
See related story: page 1B
Mercury News database editor Seth Hemmelgarn contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Charts (2);
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Enrique Lopez, on the left end of the couch with his wife, Angelica, bought a
house in East Palo Alto. His father, Antonio Lopez, is to the left of Enrique.
Seven other extended-family members live there, five of whom are pictured.
Standing are Ignacio Lopez and Maria Lopez. Kneeling at back left is Adam
Vazquez. Also on the couch are Felipe Lopez with his wife, Anna Maria, and their
daughter, Anabelly, who do not live in the house. At right end of couch is
Elvira Lopez, wife of Antonio. Kneeling in foreground are Felipe Lopez Jr. and
Enrique Lopez Jr. Antonio Lopez Jr. was absent as was Ernestina Lopez, Ignacio's
wife.
PHOTO: JOANNE HOYOUNG LEE -- MERCURY NEWS
Lily Manis, left, poses with her cousin Clarita Lobyoc and Clarita's husband,
Gerardo Lobyoc, in the Milpitas home the three have shared for two years.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 29, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT JOHN DOES FILL GRAVES AT DESERT CEMETERY DOZENS DIE WHILE TRYING TO
CROSS INTO UNITED STATES

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: HOLTVILLE


The tractor buries two men in a dirt lot at the edge of the Southern California
desert, its engine rumbling during what might otherwise be a solemn moment.

A long path and tall bushes set their graves apart from the ornate headstones at
the local cemetery. No relatives are present as the men are buried in less than
15 minutes on a May morning.

No one knows who they are.

Authorities believe they were illegal immigrants from Mexico, two more among the
hundreds who die each year while trying to cross into the United States.

"I'm sure their families are waiting for them to return home, and here they are
today being buried," said Bibi Jaime, an apprentice funeral director who read a
brief prayer before the tractor's engine was started.

Unidentified immigrants are filling the Holtville pauper's cemetery, which
opened in 1995, two months after a U.S. border crackdown began in San Diego that
pushed migrants eastward to the deserts of Southern California and Arizona.

Since then, Imperial County has buried 122 unidentified immigrants, said Dennis
Jones, superintendent of the cemetery district that manages the one-acre site in
Holtville, a farm town 120 miles east of San Diego.

Jaime, an immigrant from Mexico, has presided over several dozen John Doe
funerals in the past three years. He expects to see more as immigrants continue
to risk desert crossings.

"I wish we could do something to stop them coming across the way they do," he
said. "I wish they could see what goes on out here."

The bodies of immigrants known to be from a certain country are generally
returned there, often with that nation paying some of the cost. But many don't
carry identification or it is lost or stolen during their journey.

Of the 491 immigrants who died entering the United States last year through
Mexico, 114 were classified as unidentified, a Mexican government report said.

Immigrant deaths happen regularly in the Imperial Valley, a sparsely populated
region of deserts and mountains that supports an agricultural economy via a
network of canals that carries Colorado River water to the area.

The El Centro division of the Border Patrol, which includes the Imperial Valley,
recorded 77 deaths last year -- higher than any other sector patrolled by the
agency, for the second year in a row.

Most are caused by exposure or from drowning in the All-American Canal, a
fast-moving waterway that parallels the border for 82 miles. In 2000, 26
drowned; 11 died there so far this year, including the two men buried May 17.

As summer approaches, deaths are expected to increase as immigrants risk the
seemingly calm waters. More are also likely to die in the harsh deserts of
Southern California and in Arizona, where 14 men and teenage boys died from heat
exposure just last week.

Determining an identity can be complicated because bodies often aren't
discovered until weeks after the death in a remote section of canal or desert
wash.

Imperial County, one of the poorest regions in California, doesn't have space to
keep a body for more than about five weeks before the bodies are sent to
Holtville. This frustrates identification efforts, but few fault local
officials.

"The counties do the best they can," said Claudia Smith, an attorney for the
California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation, an advocacy group. "They bury
immigrants like they bury all indigents. They don't differentiate."

At the final resting place of the two unidentified men, a brick-size stone marks
their graves with the words "John Doe," joining the dozens of others tagged with
the same name.

But beside many of the markers, a migrant advocacy group has placed wooden
crosses written with Spanish: "No Olvidado." It means "not forgotten."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 'Not Forgotton'

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DENIS POROY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
A church group walks past a cross reading "not forgotten" at a grave of an
unidentified immigrant.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 1, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRO-UNION FILM WEARS ITS HEART ON ITS SLEEVE

BYLINE: GLENN LOVELL, Mercury News

SECTION: EYE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 490 words


If good intentions were enough, Ken Loach's latest civics lesson would go on to
instant critical acclaim and monetary reward. "Bread and Roses" -- about
Mexican-immigrant janitors striking for a livable wage -- is nothing if not
well-intentioned.

And like all good agitprop, "Bread and Roses" (in subtitled English and Spanish)
is about as subtle as a poker in the eye -- a poker forged in anger and dripping
with righteous indignation. Come to think of it, this low-budget expose might
have worked better distilled to placards and street banners.

A lifelong champion of England's underclass (see "Raining Stones" and "Ladybird,
Ladybird"), Loach has hopped the pond to tackle social injustices meted out to
the United States' undocumented immigrant population, specifically Mexican
laborers in Southern California. His first American film chronicles the
exploitation of non-union workers and the strikes and demonstrations of the
1990s that brought union representation to 2,000 janitors in Los Angeles County.

Pilar Padilla plays Maya, a young Mexican who arrives in the United States
illegally. After a short stint as a barmaid, she joins sister Rosa (Elpidia
Carrillo) at the Angel Cleaning Company, a high-rise janitorial service. From
Day One, she is submitted to sexual harassment from her boss and receives
subsistence wages ($5.75) and no benefits.

Enter Sam Shapiro (Adrien Brody), a savvy union organizer mounting a Justice for
Janitors campaign. At first he is shown the door by Angel workers, but when an
elderly janitor is fired for being late, Shapiro's pro-union pitch begins to
find an audience. As things invariably escalate -- after an incriminating piece
of paper accidentally on purpose falls into management hands -- the battle lines
are drawn, with the pragmatic Rosa and a young university student who doesn't
want to jeopardize his scholarship among the lone holdouts.

Management retaliates with lockouts and firings. The janitors march in the
streets and crash a cocktail party as real-life celebs William Atherton and Ron
Perlman look on in amazement. The cry from the street is for more than the bare
essentials: "We want bread, but we want roses, too."

It goes without saying that this is worthwhile material -- material that already
has been mined for strong drama by Robert M. Young (in "Alambrista!") and
Gregory Nava (the stunning "El Norte"). Unfortunately, "Bread and Roses" betrays
its director's unease working so far from home. In contrast to his UK films,
Loach's latest is neither very urgent nor compelling. At its worst, it's a whole
lot closer to melodramatic "Norma Rae" than to riveting "Traffic." Rosa's
11th-hour confession of what she has endured for her family belongs on a daytime
soap opera.

The film's most devastating moments feel unrehearsed and real. Fired for missing
her bus, the elderly Teresa sobs in broken English, "I need my work . . . I need
my work."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story: page 8Bread and Roses
(star)(star)
Rated: R (for profanity)
Cast: Pilar Padilla, Adrien Brody, Elpidia Carrillo
Director: Ken Loach
Writer: Paul Laverty
Running time: 1 hour, 50 minutes
In English and Spanish, with subtitles

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MERRICK MORTON
Elpidia Carrillo, left, and Pilar Padilla, right, play immigrants who are
exploited on their janitorial jobs.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 20, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS HELP LAY VALLEY FOUNDATIONS LIKE THE EARLY CHINESE, MANY FLED
OPPRESSION FOR CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 30S

LENGTH: 1356 words


A century and a quarter before the moniker Silicon Valley became worldwide
parlance, the immigrant-driven valley was already as much a state of mind as a
piece of rich earth.

Like all of the people who lived in the part of the world that later became
California, the residents of the Santa Clara Valley in the mid-19th century
lived in a rustic, parochial place.

James Wilson Marshall's discovery of gold at Coloma in 1848, of course, changed
everything. The valley's easy pace became a frenzy as argonauts from the four
corners of the Earth and every nook and cranny of the United States descended
upon the region.

About the same time, however, forces abroad that had nothing to do with precious
metals turned the Santa Clara Valley into a kind of international experiment
that is still taking shape.

Often, the new arrivals from overseas and Latin America have been the victims of
war and its aftermath.

In 1850, the Taiping Rebellion against the Manchus began in China. The
rebellion, which grew out of social and economic upheaval, plunged the country
into 14 years of civil war in which about 20 million died.

About 100,000 Chinese became California's first "boat people" as refugees
flooded into the state after disembarking from huge Chinese junks. Hundreds of
Chinese settled in the valley.

They worked 12-hour days at the New Almaden Quicksilver Mine outside San Jose.
They did railroad labor, building San Jose's Southern Pacific rail station and
the first rail link between San Jose and San Francisco.

One of the most momentous events in the valley's immigration history occurred
more than a century later after the country lost its first war. In
April 1975, when the U.S.-backed government in Saigon fell to invading North
Vietnamese forces, tens of
thousands of terrified strangers came to a new land.

In the late '70s, Cambodian refugees fled the killing fields of fanatical
communists trying to turn their country back to the Year Zero. A few years
later, civil war in El Salvador and other Central American countries drove tens
of thousands to flee their homes and settle in the greater Bay Area.

But from the beginning, the state and the Santa Clara Valley often looked more
like a cracked mosaic than a melting pot.

Take the California Foreign Miners Tax, enacted in 1852. More than half of the
49ers were immigrants, but only the Latino and Asian miners were taxed.
Europeans were exempt.

One in four of the 49ers was Chinese, generating enormous revenue for the state
in the 1860s and 1870s, said Paul Fong, an Evergreen Valley College professor
and authority on the valley's ethnic history.

Still, miners of all ethnicities often seemed to get along fine, at least on the
surface.

"Chinese Sam" was one of the most popular residents of the New Almaden
Quicksilver Mine several miles from downtown San Jose. When Sam, head cook at
one of the mine's boarding houses, died in February 1889, his fellow workers,
most of them white, raised money to send his body back to his ancestral home.

The miners liked him even though he had killed a co-worker who had tried to take
over his job by underhanded means. Sam was tried for murder but was released
after several months in jail because "he only killed another Chinese man -- and
he was an excellent cook," according to historical writer Mary Hallock Foote.

That kind of underlying racism drove California's white-dominated labor unions
to push Congress to pass the Chinese Exclusion Act. The 1882 legislation was
designed to halt the flow of "Celestials" into the state.

Ironically, though, the xenophobia that led to the Chinese Exclusion Act led to
a mass migration of Japanese later in 1880s because California industrialists
and farm owners still demanded cheap labor.

Many of those Japanese laborers rose from farmworkers to farm owners. In the
valley, they planted tomatoes and strawberries. They also laid the foundation of
the area's flower-growing industry, further beautifying the valley with roses,
carnations and chrysanthemums.

The state Legislature responded with the Alien Land Act of 1913 after white
growers and shippers complained. "So the first generation of Japanese ended up
as tenant farmers -- having to lease land," said Alex Yamato, a professor in
Asian-American studies at San Jose State University. "But
they couldn't go back to Japan because the Japanese wouldn't accept their
children, because they were born
in America."

During the first couple of decades
of the new century, immigrants continued to pour into the state -- mostly from
Europe. The new arrivals included Genovese fishermen and their families to the
bays of Monterey and San Francisco; Portuguese-speaking second sons from the
Azores, unable
to inherit the small family plots left
to older brothers; sheep-herding Basques in the hills near Los Gatos; Jews
fleeing pogroms in Eastern
Europe, Germans, Irish.

It wasn't until around 1920 that European immigration began to decline, and
peoples from around the Pacific Rim again set their sights on California.
Filipinos came to the valley, as did Sikhs from India and Samoans and other
Pacific Islanders.

But in 1924, Congress, with a wary eye on California, panicked and passed an
immigration law that remained on the books for six decades, putting strict
quotas on peoples from Asia and Latin America. Asians were banned from becoming
citizens.

The next big population wave came during the '30s, when hundreds of thousands of
Dust Bowl refugees got their fix on Route 66 as they headed toward the
California cornucopia.

Migration also brought more blacks to the state. The relatively small numbers of
African-Americans soared during and after World War II as jobless laborers
sought work in shipyards and airplane factories. Soldiers and sailors, many of
them black, came back to live near the California bases where they had spent
boot camp.

After Hitler and Hirohito were defeated, immigration slowed, and thevalley's
orchards were turned into tract home developments and industrial parks.

"It was 'Leave It To Beaver' and the Beach Boys," recalled Fong, 48, whose
family emigrated from China when he was 3.

The nearly 6-foot Fong, a quarterback for Sunnyvale High, could have assimilated
with a smile. But he
chose not to. The self-professed "tough guy" hung out with gang members
and fought the "model minority"
stereotype.

"It was horrible being Asian, being a minority," Fong recalled. "There was
harassment. There were hate crimes."

The state's demographics began to change significantly after Congress passed the
U.S. Immigration Act of 1965, dropping ethnic quotas favoring immigration from
Europe.

Assimilated Japanese-Americans were replaced by newer groups, particularly the
Vietnamese.

The 1975 collapse of Saigon couldn't have happened at a better time economically
for the emigres. It came a few years after the birth of the microprocessor.

Former anti-Vietnam war radicals getting rich from garage start-ups began hiring
thousands of anti-communist Vietnamese. And Vietnamese who had ended up in such
frigid places such as St. Paul, Minn., and Madison, Wis., soon followed the sun
and the silicon to the valley.

Big Silicon Valley firms began hunting for engineering talent when they couldn't
find enough in American universities. Workers came from Taiwan, Hong Kong,
India, Pakistan and Iran.

"You can't say what a Californian looks like these days," said Kevin Starr, the
state's librarian and author of several books on the state. "He or she looks
like the world. And particularly in well-off, well-educated places like the
Santa Clara Valley, people don't have to shed their identities to enter the
common culture."

Because of the rising Latino and soaring Asian populations, by the late '90s the
valley had no ethnic or racial majority, as the white population dropped below
50 percent.

"Overall, this is the greatest place in the world to live," said Fong, president
of the board of trustees for the Foothill-De Anza Community College District.
"Most of the negatives are in the past. Now we can move ahead, together."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS: CELEBRATING OUR 150TH YEAR
OUR EVOLUTION: IMMIGRATION

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
REMEMBERING THE PAST
Tu Vo, who emigrated from Vietnam in 1992, was one of the many
Vietnamese-Americans who gathered at St. James Park in San Jose on April 30,
2000, to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the fall of Saigon.
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
A NEW AMERICAN
Jennifer Montemayor, 7, and more than 100 other children became U.S. citizens at
a ceremony in San Jose in March.
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
OPEN FOR BUSINESS
Young Ku is reflected in the window of his frame shop on South Abel Street in
Milpitas. His shop, Mook Hyaang Art Gallery, offers Asian art, painting and
framing. Ku arrived in the United States 15 years ago and opened his shop two
years ago. Ku's store is representative of the growing number of Asian-owned
businesses in Milpitas that have transformed the city over the past decade.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 28, 2001 Thursday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

LAOTIAN IMMIGRANTS BREAK OLD CUSTOMS SCHOLARSHIPS HELP: COLLEGE EDUCATION
REPLACING TRADITION OF EARLY MARRIAGE

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 782 words


Moung Saetern married her high school sweetheart immediately after graduation
from high school, and following Iu Mien tradition she had three children by the
time she was 20.

Despite a lack of role models, the immigrant mother went to college, earned a
degree, and now is working as a high school counselor.

The Iu Mien pioneer -- she is one of the first members of the Laotian highland
ethnic group to earn a postgraduate degree -- has for the past four years tried
to show other young Iu Mien that they, too, can break the old customs and forge
their own path in life.

To encourage young Iu Miens to stay in school, Saetern helped form the LaoIu
Mien Culture Association in 1997 in order to start a scholarship fund. Friday
marks the fourth annual Iu Mien Scholarship dinner to raise money for
scholarships for Iu Mien students to attend college. There are about 20,000 Iu
Mien living mainly on the West Coast.

Saetern wishes such support had been available when she was struggling to get
through school. With her family's help looking after three young children, she
worked full time as a counselor at the East Bay Asian Youth Center and attended
school part time at night, first at Laney College in Oakland, then at San
Francisco State University.

"I'd come home from work and be the dutiful daughter-in-law, relieve my
mother-in-law who was looking after the kids and prepare dinner," Saetern
recalled. "Then when the kids went to bed, and after finishing up the chores,
I'd study sometimes to 3 in the morning."

In the mountains of Laos where the Iu Mien come from, life is harsh and large
families are a hedge against high mortality rates. In the United States,
highland Laotians continue to have the largest families of any immigrant group.

Saetern wanted to break the pattern, and though it was a hard struggle, she
eventually obtained a master's degree in social work, had a fourth child, and
now works as a counselor at Oakland High School.

High pregnancy rate

Until recently, most young Miens in the United States continued the tradition of
starting families young. According to a study to be released in July by the
Center for Reproductive Health Research and Policy at the University of
California-San Francisco, highland Laotian teenagers have the highest pregnancy
rate of any ethnic group -- almost 19 percent, well above the state average of
11.8 percent -- even as teenage birthrates have reached their lowest point in 60
years.

The Southeast Asian community has burgeoned over the past decade, according to
census figures. Collectively, "other" Asians, primarily Laotians, Thais and
Cambodians, grew by 78 percent in the Bay Area to 78,992, with many clustered in
Oakland and Richmond.

Some Miens dispute the center's findings, although they say their information is
anecdotal rather than scientific since no formal study has been made of their
community.

The study covers up to 1998, but Tut Wang Tang of Oakland said that the
information is already outdated. "A lot has changed even in three years. Now
every young Mien that I know is graduating and going on to community college,
unlike when I graduated in 1993 and was one of the few to go to university."

Tang went to UC-Berkeley and is now enrolled in the master of business
administration program at California State University-Hayward and is one of the
few Miens in graduate school.

Many head for college

Linda Saetern (no relation), 21, one of the first recipients of the Iu Mien
scholarship, is attending San Jose State University and studying accounting. She
received a $150 scholarship.

"It wasn't a huge amount of money, but it showed me how my community came
through for me," she said. With the exception of one friend who had a baby, all
of her friends are going to community college or college.

"We see the importance of education because our parents didn't have one,"
Saetern said. "It's a chance for us to succeed and help our parents have a
better life."

Saetern is the scheduled keynote speaker at the fundraiser.

After 20 years in the United States, assimilation has been slow for the Iu Mien.
Living in the inner city, many youths were derailed by gang life and dropped out
of school. California Youth Authority figures for 1990 show that the
incarceration rate for young Iu Mien -- 1 out of every 382 -- is higher than
that for any other ethnic group.

But a seismic change has taking place in the Mien community in the last few
years with the realization that education is the way out of poverty.

"Not only do we want our kids to stay in school and go to college but we want
them to come back and help our community get stronger," Moung Saeternsaid.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The fourth annual Iu Mien Scholarship Dinner will take place Friday at the
California Ballroom, 1736 Franklin St., Oakland, at 6 p.m. For more information,
call (510) 333-7229.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Moung Saetern, one of the first of her ethnic group to earn a postgraduate
degree, tries to show others that they, too, can break the old customs.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 6, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NUMBERS SHRINK, HERITAGE THRIVES JAPANESE-AMERICANS REDEFINE THEMSELVES AS LOW
IMMIGRATION, INTERMARRIAGE TAKE TOLL

BYLINE: LORI ARATANI, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1207 words


John Tateishi, the grandson of Japanese immigrants, grew up in California during
the 1950s when it would have been unheard of to marry anyone outside his own
ethnic group.

Today, Tateishi, 61, is a leader in that community as executive director of the
Japanese American Citizens League. And while he would like his children to marry
other Japanese-Americans, he takes in stride the fact that his son datesan
Iranian woman, his daughter a Latino man. What matters most, he said, "is that
my children are happy."

Dating, then marrying outside the community isn't a bigger issue for
Japanese-Americans than for other ethnic groups. But combined with low birth
rates and immigration that has slowed to a trickle, it helps explain a
demographic quirk: The Japanese-American population is shrinking at a time when
Census 2000 figures show explosive growth among Asians in America overall.

According to the census, the number of Asians in America grew by 48 percent in
the previous decade to 10.2 million. But the number of Japanese decreased by 6
percent overall, and in California, home to the largest concentrations of
Japanese outside of Hawaii, the number dropped 8 percent.

Even in San Jose, where a rapidly developing Japantown neighborhood still serves
as a social and religious center, population numbers are down 3 percent.

"We're just not replacing our current population," said Larry Shinagawa, a
professor at Sonoma State University.

What the Japanese-American population decline means for the future of the
ethnicity once dominant among Asians in the United States is the subject of much
debate. Some see declining numbers translating to diminished political
influence. Others fear that if the trend continues, Japanese-Americans will
cease to exist as a separate ethnic group and their culture will be lost.

Yet many are optimistic. "It doesn't worry me," said Katie Hironaka, 81. "I feel
that the Japanese will still go on."

Contributing factors

Some attribute part of the decline to the new mixed-race option on the 2000
Census forms. But most explanations cite other factors.

The bulk of Japanese immigration took place from 1900 to 1920, with more than
213,000 entering America. These days, there is little immigration from Japan
because it is a fully industrialized nation.

That contrasts with other Asian countries, including China and India, that were
the starting points for many immigrants during the 1990s. According to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the number of immigrants from Japan in
1998 was 5,647 -- about one-eighth the number from China and one-sixth of those
from India.

For many Japanese-Americans, there have been signs for years that the community
is getting smaller.

Pam Yoshida, the daughter of strawberry farmers, need not look any further than
her family to understand one reason for the decline: the birth rate. Her mother
was one of eight children, her father one of 12. She was one of three in her
family, and she and her husband have no children.

"The reasons to have large families have largely disappeared," she said,
referring to past need to provide farm help. "I mean, can you imagine raising 12
children these days?"

In many ways, the overall Japanese-American experience mirrors that of other
ethnic groups. As subsequent generations are born, they assimilate and develop
stronger ties to the United States.

But some experts say the assimilation process for Japanese-Americans may have
been accelerated because of historical factors. During World War II,
Japanese-Americans worked hard to show their patriotism. Even after their
families were sent to internment camps, many young Japanese-Americans were eager
to prove their loyalty and volunteered to serve in the armed forces.

There was "tremendous pressure for Japanese-Americans to assimilate and to make
Japanese culture as acceptable as possible," said Alex Yamato, a professor of
Asian-American studies at San Jose State University.

Intermarriage contributes to assimilation. According to Shinagawa, the
intermarriage rate for Japanese-American men is 50 percent, below the 60 percent
rate for women -- though that figure includes Japanese nationals who marry
American soldiers.

There are tangible signs of the shrinking population. Once more than 40
Japantowns and communities flourished in the United States. Today, only three
remain -- San Jose, San Francisco and Los Angeles -- and the latter two are
fighting to remain viable. Japanese-American newspapers are also struggling.

Rethinking identity

Changes in the community also have forced groups like the San Francisco-based
Japanese American Citizens League to rethink what it means to be a
Japanese-American at a time when many young people are of mixed ancestry.

Sue Sakai-McClure, 47, a Japanese-American who is married to a Irish-American,
argues that the Japanese culture doesn't fade away simply because people choose
to marry those of another ethnicity.

Her son, Conor and daughter, Addi, attend the San Jose Buddhist Church Betsuin
in Japantown, take Japanese language classes and dance in the Obon festival. In
fact, her husband James is chairman of Obon, the annual Buddhist celebration of
the dead.

"I think my children identify strongly with the Japanese culture because they
spend so much time around the church and around other Japanese-Americans," she
said.

Yet, even as some institutions in the Japanese-American community are fading
away, others are thriving.

Across the country the number of groups performing the Japanese drumming art of
taiko is growing. Around the Bay Area, there are waiting lists for admission to
Japanese summer culture schools.

At San Jose's Suzume no Gakko, close to 100 students -- some from as far away as
Oregon -- are enrolled in a three-week program, where they'll learn everything
from how to make sushi to how to speak Japanese. Sprinkled in among the
Nakayamas and Yamakoshis are names like Ozawa-Burns and Vasper.

"I know a few individuals of other ethnicities are more Japanese than some
Japanese-Americans that I know," Yoshida said. "Sometimes, it isn't just
bloodline."

So far, their shrinking numbers haven't diminished Japanese-Americans' political
influence. The majority of Asians serving in Congress are Japanese-American,
including Reps. Mike Honda, D-San Jose, and Robert Matsui, D-Sacramento.

"I think if we are concerned that we're going to lose out in terms of our hold
on the American dream, I don't think that's the case," Honda said. "We're an
example of an immigrant group that came at the turn of century, put up with
generations of anti-Asian sentiment and survived, but held tight to our dreams
and made it work."

In some ways, said Sonoma State's Shinagawa, Japanese-Americans may be at the
forefront of a new change: the shift to a more pan-Asian identity as
Asian-Americans.

"The concept of Japanese-American is almost outdated now," he said. "In two or
three generations it's going to be a much more symbolic identity. The concept of
one identity is going to be very remote."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Japanese-American population decreases
Source: U.S. Census
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Chart;
PHOTO: JOANNE HOYOUNG LEE - MERCURY NEWS
Census numbers show Japanese-American numbers are shrinking. Yet Japanese
heritage is kept alive at cultural schools like San Jose's Suzume no Gakko,
above. Ken Iyoya, 10, left, is a student there.
PHOTO: JOANNE HOYOUNG LEE - MERCURY NEWS
From left, fifth graders Yukiye Kawaguchi, Hideko Kanemori, Yoshiko Doi
participate in language class at a San Jose Japanese school.
PHOTO: JOANNE HOYOUNG LEE - MERCURY NEWS
Grant Kadokura, 12, of Cupertino practices a traditional Japanese folk dance for
the upcoming Obon festival.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 6, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLICE ALLEGEDLY AIDED IMMIGRANT TRAFFICKERS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 74 words

DATELINE: MEXICO


Investigators are on the verge of beginning large-scale arrests of corrupt
police who helped traffickers make southern Mexico into a huge illegal
immigration pipeline to the United States, a top official said Thursday.

Immigrant traffickers allegedly paid off police and immigration inspectors to
maintain a trade more profitable than drug trafficking, according to the top
immigration official in the state of Veracruz, Alejandro Cossio.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World In Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 15, 2001 Sunday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

USE OF EXOTIC PLANTS CAN RUN AFOUL OF U.S. LAW CULTURAL DRUG USE RISING IN BAY
AREA INTOXICANTS SUCH AS KHAT, KAVA AND BETEL NUTS, WHICH ARE TRADITIONAL AND
LEGAL IN OTHER COUNTRIES, CAN VIOLATE AMERICA'S STRINGENT DRUG LAWS AND
SOMETIMES LAND RECENT IMMIGRANTS IN JAIL.

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1110 words


The emergence of exotic plant-based drugs in the Bay Area is sparking a culture
clash as immigrants discover that their age-old traditions can violate America's
modern-day regulations, and even land them in jail.

The use of substances such as khat, kava and betel nut -- legal and often
socially encouraged in immigrants' homelands -- are a growing problem in the Bay
Area, not only for immigrants but also law enforcement agents, drug counselors
and regulators.

"It's overwhelming . . . Don't even get me started," said Food and Drug
Administration consumer safety officer George Butler. "There are so many
products and ingredients coming in that we do the best we can do, but we just
can't keep up."

Khat, a plant native to East Africa and the Middle East, is a particular concern
because it contains cathinone, an amphetamine that is illegal under federal law.
Last year, the U.S. Customs Service reported a 46 percent increase in
confiscation of khat: 70,000 pounds were seized last year, compared with 48,000
in 1999.

Although both are legal, kava and betel nuts also pose problems. Kava contains a
depressant used in drinks in Tongan and Samoan rituals. Two Pacific Islanders on
the Peninsula recently have been prosecuted for driving while impaired after
consuming kava tea.

Betel nuts are tropical Asian palm tree seeds that act as a stimulant but which
may have cancer-causing properties that are made worse when the seeds are
combined with tobacco.

At least five Yemeni immigrants in the Bay Area have been prosecuted in recent
years for growing khat, which falls into the same drug category as LSD and
heroin. One of them is Abdo Algazzali, a 65-year-old father of eight, whose
heart still pumps faster talking about the day two years ago when police stormed
his San Leandro back yard, whacking down 800 khat plants.

While hunting for the shrubs, police shouted at his wife: "Where's the cat? The
cat?"

They became furious with her denials, unaware that she didn't speak fluent
English and that they were mispronouncing the object of their feverish search.
Khat is pronounced more like "ghat."

"You chew khat every day in Yemen," said Algazzali, owner of two convenience
stores in San Francisco and Oakland. "In my country, there is no law against it
. . . They treated me worse than if I had been running a crack house."

Algazzali pleaded no contest last year to a misdemeanor drug charge andpromised
to buy "Say No to Khat" ads in a Yemeni newspaper.

The culture clash is complicated by local, state and federal agencies that
sometimes make conflicting decisions.

FDA rules

When contacted by the Mercury News, at least two FDA agents said they believed
there was a ban on betel nuts because they are carcinogenic. One Indo-American
store owner in Fremont doesn't carry them, citing the "ban." But two similar
stores down the street carry them in various shapes and sizes.

There is no ban. In September, however, the FDA did issue a bulletin advising
inspectors to use their discretion to decide if the nuts are allowed into the
country. FDA rules let inspectors seize products they feel are unsanitary, not
truthful in their labeling, not identified in English, or, in the case of betel
nuts, may be part of a "violative trend." The FDA could not provide any
statistics on how many betel nut packages have been taken.

A 'legal high'

Other foreign drugs fall into bureaucratic limbo, too.

Ma huang, a Chinese herbal upper that acts like methamphetamine, is considered a
"legal high," despite FDA warnings about its link to heart attacks, seizures and
psychotic episodes. While khat is illegal under federal law, it's not mentioned
in California drug law.

Immigrant advocates say that education, not incarceration, is the best way to
deal with newcomers struggling to decipher complicated U.S. rules.

Alison Renteln, author of an upcoming book called "The Cultural Defense," said
harsh crackdowns can unfairly penalize immigrants. Her research found a
nationwide increase in prosecutions of khat, kava, opium and peyote -- all
products used in ritual or religious life.

"Americans are quite paranoid of people who are different and substances that
are different," she said. "Immigrants shouldn't be thrown into prison for
drinking kava or chewing khat."

Nation of laws

The University of Southern California professor doesn't advocate breaking the
law, but said law enforcement should take cultural beliefs into account before
meting out punishment. But police and prosecutors say immigrants must learn to
live by the rules of their new country.

"We're a nation of laws," said Blair Thomas, an Alameda County prosecutor in
charge of drug crimes. "And the bottom line is the uniformity of the law. If
there's a rule, everyone has to abide by it."

Some of the substances are deemed dangerous even abroad. Agencies in Taiwan and
India have warned that betel nuts are linked to mouth cancer, and Yemeni
officials recently forbade government workers from chewing khat because they say
its overuse can lead to laziness.

Bay Area law enforcement officials acknowledge that exotic drugs are not nearly
as worrisome as heroin or cocaine. But they say they want to curb their
emergence before their use becomes widespread.

Some East Palo Alto community leaders and drug counselors say they are seeing a
greater use of kava. They soon plan to launch an awareness campaign about the
harmful properties of the drink.

Recent brushes with the law have forced some immigrants to alter their behavior
-- abstaining from their cultural staples or hiding their use.

Secret trade

Since Algazzali's arrest, some Yemeni community members are secretly importing
khat rather than growing it in their yards. Some Indians, especially Hindus,
have been known to sneak betel nuts past federal investigators to ensure that
they can use the caffeine-like seeds in religious ceremonies. And some Pacific
Islanders are more surreptitious in their kava drinking since last year's
prosecution of Taufui Piutau, a San Bruno man from Tonga, who wasdriving after
drinking 23 cups. His trial resulted in a hung jury, and he hasn't been retried.

While some immigrants will continue to sneak, drink and chew their hometown
concoctions, Algazzali swears he'll respect the U.S. legal system and stay away
from khat forever.

What he's most worried about is the new sitting room he's building for his
guests. What will he serve?

"That's what you do when you have friends over," he said. "You go and sit down
and chew khat. Sometimes from one in the afternoon to midnight. I'm still
waiting to see if people will come to visit me."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

GRAPHIC: Photos (4);
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Leelq Mathur, right, worships at an altar containing a betel nut at the Fremont
Hindu temple Vedic Dharma Samaj. These nuts used in religious life act as a
stimulant but may have cancer-causing properties.
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
Kava: It contains a depressant used in drinks in Tongan and Samoan rituals. Two
people have been prosecuted for driving while impaired after consuming kava tea.

PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Khat: Native to East Africa and the Middle East, it contains an amphetamine
illegal in the United States. U.S. Customs Service seized 70,000 pounds last
year.
PHOTO: SPECIAL TO THE MERCURY NEWS
Betel nuts: The tropical Asian palm tree seeds act as a stimulant but may have
cancer-causing properties made worse when combined with tobacco.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 17, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PONDER AMNESTY IDEA WITH MIXED EMOTIONS

BYLINE: CLAUDIA MELENDEZ AND JOHN HUBNER, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 683 words


As the Bush administration sent conflicting signals about the possibility of
granting amnesty to 3 million illegal Mexican workers, Bay Area immigrants and
their advocates Monday were hopeful, skeptical and confused.

They embraced the prospect of citizenship but worried that President Bush,
responding to pressure from conservative Republicans, might endorse a more
restrictive policy that would include tougher employment requirements and make
legal status very difficult to achieve.

At the Tropicana shopping center in East San Jose, immigrants said that amnesty
would transform their lives, making it easier to get better-paying jobs and
allowing them to return to Mexico to visit their relatives without risking their
lives in desert crossings.

"People would stop being afraid," said Leticia Garcia, 28, who arrived from
Oaxaca, Mexico, six months ago without immigration papers.

Driver's licenses

Legal status would allow Garcia and others in her situation to obtain driver's
licenses, which would make it much easier to get to work.

"It would be great," said Doroteo Yeska, 35, who came from Oaxaca eight months
ago. It takes him an hour to get to work on public transportation.

Yeska earns $7 an hour washing dishes at a San Jose restaurant. A driver's
license, he said, would make it less difficult to find a better-paying job:
"After paying for food and electricity, I have hardly any money to pay for
clothes."

Contradictory statements came from Washington this week, and it was unclear what
course Bush would follow. Although a top-level administration task force was
said to be weighing the idea, the White House seemed to back away Monday from
automatic amnesty.

Meanwhile, conservative Republican senators have introduced a bill that would
grant legal status to some under much more restrictive rules. The bill,
sponsored by Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, would require an undocumented worker to
work 150 days in agriculture before applying for a green card. To actually
receive a green card, the worker would then have to work 150 days in the fields
in four of the following six years.

Might be impractical

However, experts say the average farmworker in California is able to cobble
together only 100 days of work a year.

"The people who track this stuff are confused," said Ed Kissam, a Bay Area
policy analyst who does immigration studies for the U.S. Department of Labor.
"Imagine how confusing it must be if you are undocumented and don't speak
English."

Another proposal under consideration by the administration and supported by Sen.
Phil Gramm, R-Texas, would allow Mexican "guest workers" to enter and leave the
country as needed, reducing dangerous border crossings and other hazards of
illegal immigration.

The confusion among specialists did, indeed, filter down to the streets. In the
East San Jose Community Law Center, immigration law attorney Lynette Parker said
there was none of the excitement that usually accompanies amnesty announcements,
no matter how tentative.

"It's become a trust issue," Parker said. "Rumors there is going to be a new
amnesty have come up more than once, only to be shot down."

Farmworkers in the Central Valley were feeling just as bewildered.

"They have a lot of questions about what the rules will be," said Luis Magana,
program assistant for the Rural Economic Alternatives Project in Stockton.

But immigration advocates cheer the prospect of blanket amnesty.

"This is a very positive step forward," said Mark Silverman, an attorney at the
Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. "In terms of immigration, Bush
is a smart Republican who understands the immigration issue and the importance
of the Latino vote."

Long-delayed visit

If amnesty is approved, Rosalia Ochoa, 35, will be able to visit her family for
the first time in 10 years. She hasn't been able to return to Mexico to visit
her family because, without papers, the trip is too dangerous.

"I hope this becomes a reality," she said of the amnesty idea. "There are so
many of us who are in this situation. I hope to God."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: Page 8A
MONDAY'S DEVELOPMENTS

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 19, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS CHIEF NOMINEE COASTS IN HEARING

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 100 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


President Bush's choice to head the Immigration and Naturalization Service
sailed through a Senate confirmation hearing Wednesday, even as he declined to
reveal his views on a possible White House policy shift that would grant amnesty
to millions of Mexicans living in the United States illegally.

Appearing before a Senate Judiciary Committee, James Ziglar politely deflected
questions about a sweeping amnesty proposal being considered by the White House,
saying he was not involved in the discussions on it. Pressed on the question,
Ziglar replied: "Let me say this: I'm not anti-immigrant."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 20, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ACCENT ON CLEARER SPEECH TIRED OF BEING MISUNDERSTOOD, BAY AREA SPEAKERS OF
ENGLISH AS A SECOND LANGUAGE SMOOTH THEIR INFLECTION

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1065 words


For many Silicon Valley immigrants, knowing English is not enough.

Chinese-born chemist Daniel Sheng, for example, realized his co-workers at a
Santa Clara biotech research firm had difficulty understanding him because of
his intonation.

Gelinda Roduta, a native of the Philippines, felt embarrassed because she
botched the pronunciation of certain words in front of her daughter's friends.

So Sheng, Roduta and other immigrants frustrated that their English is often
misunderstood are signing up in increasing numbers for specialized courses to
help them modify, reduce or eliminate their distinctive foreign accents.

"Silicon Valley has a fantastic workforce of immigrants who every day are faced
with a puzzled brow or wince whenever they open their mouths," said Kathleen
Miranda, who teaches accent reduction to foreign-born professionals in the Bay
Area.

"Their work skills get them their exciting jobs," she said, "but their
communication skills hold them back."

Accent-improvement courses are offered in adult education classrooms, community
colleges, corporate conference rooms and the offices of speech pathologists.
They have been around since at least the 1970s as part of English as a Second
Language (ESL) programs. But with the arrival of more immigrants in recent
years, their popularity has risen steadily.

The Sunnyvale-Cupertino Adult & Community Education program, which offers as
many as four such classes, at times has a waiting list; three years ago there
was just one class, the program director said. And the courses are filled within
days after catalogs are mailed.

San Jose City College will add a component this fall to its Semiconductor
Technology Program -- English communication skills -- because employers have
complained of difficulty making out what the program's graduates are saying.

National Semiconductor University, an in-house educational complex at the
company's Santa Clara headquarters, offers a 12-week course in "Pronunciation of
American English." This is where Gelinda Roduta set aside her duties as an
accounts receivable analyst to join four co-workers who say they also
haveproblems with their accents.

During a session, these immigrants, some of whom learned English long ago,
engaged in a lively interaction with their instructor, Leah Ball, from ESL
On-Site, an Oakland-based firm that has trained hundreds of workers in several
countries.

Ball works with the students to alter their jaw position, vowel length and
position of their tongue.

That day Ball focused on the value of placing just the right amount of stress to
emphasize a certain mood when speaking phrases such as "Come on" and "Go away."

"Americans only stress one word in a phrase," Ball explained. "If you stress
more, American listeners think you sound irritated or angry."

Boost in confidence

Roduta spoke English in the Philippines, and everyone understood her just fine
until she moved to the United States. After her 22-year-old U.S.-born daughter
kept correcting her in public, Roduta decided to modify her accent.

Now finished with the course, Roduta says it has boosted her confidence. "It
makes me feel like I'm on top of the world when I speak."

Daniel Sheng, who took an in-house pronunciation class with seven co-workers,
said he learned to imitate the instructor's pronunciation because the accent he
was taught in China had a British tone.

Pronunciation classes at the workplace, offered by about a dozen companies and
dozens of individuals around the Bay Area, start at around $750 per participant
for a two-hour-a-week, 12-week class. Many classes cost much more. Students in
most cases sign up voluntarily.

The economic slowdown has reduced corporate training budgets, yet demand has
remained fairly steady, instructors said, because of the valley's multicultural
workforce.

Slightly more than half a million of Santa Clara County's 1,682,585 residents
were born outside of the United States, mostly in Asia or Latin America.

At National Semiconductor, the classes have helped employees communicate better
not only with co-workers and supervisors, but also with customers, said Mary
Raz, director of the internal university.

"In cases where the listener does not want to risk offending the person with the
hard-to-understand accent, he or she will walk away wondering what was said, or
even worse, leave with an unintended and wrong message," Raz said. "Think of the
implications with an engineering design, a business process or a production
line."

Managers trained

Accent instructors sometimes are called to give trainings when supervisors who
are native speakers become exasperated that immigrant employees are not speaking
up at important meetings, said Kathryn Burkhead of ESL On-Site.

The problem may require cultural training for the manager and the employee; some
immigrants believe it's not in their place to speak out at a meeting. But often
the lack of communication arises because an employee who sends perfectly written
e-mails is wary of speaking in public.

A large proportion of accent-improvement students, instructors say, are
high-tech workers of Asian descent. And students from different countries
generally have different needs when it comes to pronunciation improvement.

Vietnamese contains monosyllabic words spoken in as many as six different tones,
which some native English speakers will interpret as sounding like shouting,
said instructor Kathleen Miranda.

Indian immigrants, who come from a country with a variety of dialects, often
speak English with an upward intonation, Miranda said, which can make it seem as
if they are asking a question, or are insecure.

Accents can be improved by emphasizing certain verbs and nouns in a sentence.

"American English is a rhythm-timed language, as opposed to a syllable-timed
language such as Japanese -- in English we stress the most important words and
reduce the less important ones," said John Halbert, president of Linguatec of
Sunnyvale, which started in 1980.

With so many foreign newcomers in the valley, some course instructors predict
the next wave of accent improvement will be for native speakers, so they can
better understand the immigrants.

Said Kathleen Hanson, the ESL coordinator at San Jose City College: "We're just
going to have to get used to hearing English with traces of other languages."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TIPS FOR NATIVE SPEAKERS
Ten suggestions for better communication between native English speakers and
non-native colleagues:
Face your listener when speaking.
Be aware of slang and jargon and limit your use of it.
Repeat key words slowly.
Slow your pace so the listener has a chance to ask for clarification.
If you don't understand what the person said and asking them to repeat it
doesn't help, ask to see the word in writing. The non-native speaker learns from
the mistake.
In conversations (or meetings), summarize and check for understanding often.
Be careful with sarcasm and humor; these are culturally bound.
Use short, direct statements; avoid embedded questions.
Avoid the temptation to take control of the conversation. Give the non-native
English speaker time to absorb what you say -- and room to respond.
Stay focused on one idea at a time. Make transitions clear to help the listener
follow your ideas.
Annie Gardiner, president,
ESL On-Site Inc.
TIPS FOR NON-NATIVE SPEAKERS
Ten suggestions for non-native speakers for improving their American English
accents:
Make eye contact, speak directly and use body language such as facial
expressions.
Immerse yourself in listening to English everywhere you go.
Learn phonetics because it will teach you how to make the sounds of English and
how to listen more successfully.
Work on learning the American intonation pattern; 85 percent of being understood
is speaking with American intonation.
American intonation is up and down, rather than flat or staccato. Nouns and
verbs are stressed. Example: Go to the store and bring me some eggs.
Tape record your own speech, and self-monitor your pronunciation.
Make a list of words that are difficult to pronounce, and practice them with a
native speaker.
When someone speaks too fast, ask him or her to repeat; never pretend to
understand.
Practice using your face muscles daily, saying uh-ah-oh-oo-ee.
Smile when you speak. It relaxes your voice.
Arline Hegglund, president,
Accent on English

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
National Semiconductor employees Gelinda Roduta, left, and Elizabeth Thomas,
center, work with instructor Leah Ball to improve their pronunciation.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 22, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH RATE OF IMMIGRANT DEATHS REPORTED IN N.Y.

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 70 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


New York has the nation's highest rate of immigrants killed in the workplace,
with foreign-born workers accounting for three of every 10 such deaths, Newsday
reported today.

Often performing jobs nobody else wants, usually for low pay, immigrants were
killed on construction crews, shot for cash as late-night store clerks, and
crushed, impaled or electrocuted while working as landscapers, the newspaper
reported.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 1, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATE OKS BUSH'S CHOICE FOR INS CHIEF CHAMBER'S SERGEANT-AT-ARMS HAS MANAGEMENT
BACKGROUND

BYLINE: JESSE J. HOLLAND, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 297 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Senators on Tuesday approved the nomination of former Senate Sergeant-at-Arms
James Ziglar as the new Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner.

Ziglar got a standing ovation from the senators after they approved his
nomination by voice vote.

"On behalf of the entire Senate, we wish Jim Ziglar well in his new role and new
responsibilities," said Senate Majority Leader Thomas Daschle, D-S.D. "I can
think of no one who can serve more ably."

Ziglar had been Senate sergeant at arms, the chief of protocol and law
enforcement officer of the chamber, since 1998.

"We all wish him well in this very important job that's going to take a lot of
administrative ability and a lot of willingness to make changes to make sure
that agency is run more efficiently," said Senate Republican Leader Trent Lott,
R-Miss.

The INS has come under fire for backlogs in its citizenship, visa and other
work.

Lawmakers point to Ziglar's 35 years of management experience as a key asset
that will be critical should Congress decide to split the agency's service and
enforcement responsibilities.

Ziglar previously worked as managing director of PaineWebber and has held
several government positions, including assistant secretary of the interior for
water and science.

A native of Pascagoula, Miss., Ziglar received his undergraduate and law degree
from George Washington University in Washington.

Immigration advocacy groups have been concerned about Ziglar's lack of
immigration experience, but have not been overly critical.

When asked during his confirmation hearing whether he supports legalizing the 3
million undocumented Mexican immigrants in the country -- an issue President
Bush is considering -- Ziglar said he had not studied the issue enough to
comment.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 3, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW BORDER STRATEGY DEADLIER, REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Border Patrol strategies focused on keeping immigrants away from citieshave
forced more to risk death sneaking into the country over mountains, through
deserts and across rivers, congressional investigators found.

The strategy assumed that rugged terrain would deter immigrants from trying to
enter the country illegally, and that those who did take the risk would be
easier to catch.

"While migrants have always faced danger crossing the border and many died
before INS began its strategy, the strategy has resulted in an increase in
deaths from exposure to either heat or cold," a report from the General
Accounting Office said Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 6, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CALIFORNIA'S LEAD IN IMMIGRATION NARROWS TWENTY-SIX PERCENT OF THE STATE'S 33
MILLION RESIDENTS WERE FOREIGN-BORN. BUT WHILE CALIFORNIA STILL LEADS THE NATION
IN IMMIGRANT POPULATION, DATA SHOWS THAT MANY ARE INCREASINGLY SETTLING IN OTHER
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1166 words


More than one in 10 U.S. residents are immigrants, the highest share of the
nation's overall population since the 1930s, and no state had a higher
percentage of foreign-born residents than California, the Census Bureau reported
today.

In all, 26 percent of the Golden State's 33 million residents, or 8.6 million
people, were foreign-born, with three quarters from Mexico or Asia.
Bycomparison, America's 30.5 million immigrants make up 11 percent of the total
population.

While the numbers are not surprising, the Census 2000 Supplementary Survey
provides the most current and comprehensive look at immigration. The survey
sampled 700,000 households nationwide on a variety of issues.

Among the findings: Californians continue to be the most likely to speak another
language in the home, but the vast majority of children in those homes speak
English well.

The survey also showed that, despite California's image as the nation's premier
melting pot, immigrants are increasingly going to other states. Of the 13.3
million immigrants who arrived in the past decade in the United States, a
smaller percentage settled in California than had in the 1980s.

The reason: Immigrants bypassed traditional gateways to establish beachheads
across the South and the Farm Belt.

"We've seen a major dispersal," said Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Urban
Institute in Washington, D.C. "They didn't just go to the old-line states."

Still, California added almost 3.3 million foreign-born residents in the 1990s,
capping an unprecedented three-decade surge that remade the state's identity and
economy while igniting a host of political and social issues.

The numbers hint at the potential impact of recent plans offered by President
Bush and congressional Democrats to expand the paths to legal residence,
analysts said.

Push for reductions

Those who favor reducing immigration levels said the survey results underlined
the need for more -- and better-enforced -- limits.

"We need a policy more based on skills, that allows somewhat fewer immigrants
overall, which would facilitate assimilation," said Steven Camarota, director of
research at the Center for Immigration Studies, an independent non-profit
research organization based in Washington, D.C. "It's certainly clear that the
networks and family connections are all in place so that any kind of amnesty
will cause the immigrant numbers to increase rapidly."

Immigration proponents, however, said the higher-than-expected foreign-born
numbers showed that newcomers had been a critical asset to the decade's
prosperity, not a drag on it.

"The anti-immigration folks say they're bringing us down; they aren't good
enough to be Americans," said Douglas Rivlin, spokesman for the National
Immigration Forum. "They said the same about Poles, Slavs and Jews. They were
wrong then, and they're wrong now."

The new census figures also found that 40 percent of Californians speak a
language other than English in their homes.

New Mexico was second at 36 percent, followed by Texas at 32 percent.
Nationwide, 18 percent of residents spoke a language other than English at home.

Hans Johnson, a researcher with the Public Policy Institute of California, said
that the vast majority of California immigrants' children reported speaking
English either "very well" or "well," however.

Among Spanish speakers, 86 percent of children had strong English language
skills. And about 90 percent of youths who speak an Asian or Pacific Island
language also spoke English "very well" or "well," he said.

"The high rate of languages spoken at home other than English is directly
attributable to the fact that you have a very large, young population of
children from parents who were born abroad," said Andres Jimenez, director of
the California Policy Research Center. "Children who are born here regularly see
family from Mexico and speak to their parents in Spanish. You also see it in the
Chinese and Southeast Asian communities."

Lawmakers and others who develop public policy need to adapt education, health
care, housing and transportation strategies to better serve immigrants, Jimenez
said.

Other findings

Today's release of new data also revealed other snapshots of America at theclose
of the 20th century.

The data showed Americans finished the 1990s more prosperous in material wealth.

Among the findings:

* More Americans are graduating high school and college than ever before. In
2000, 82 percent of people 25 and older had graduated from high school and 25
percent had at least a bachelor's degree. In 1990, the figures were 75 percent
and 20 percent, respectively.

* Car ownership is at an all-time high. More than 90 percent of households owned
a car, van or truck in 2000. And 18 percent owned three or more vehicles.
Seventy-six percent of workers nationwide drove to work alone, up 3 percent from
1990.

* Homes are getting bigger. More than one out of four homes now has seven rooms
or more, up slightly from 10 years ago. This confirms other data showing that
nearly one of five new houses exceeds 3,000 square feet. In 2000, the median
monthly mortgage for U.S. homeowners was $1,307, significantly higher than a
decade ago.

* Poverty remains in many areas, however. Nearly 13 percent of the population
was living in poverty in 2000, down slightly from 1990 levels that are not
strictly comparable. Among the poor are 17 percent of children under 18 and 11
percent of adults 65 or over. Seventeen percent of households received some sort
of public assistance.

But perhaps no trend reshaped America's culture, economy, society, education and
identity than its changing diversity, driven by levels of immigration not seen
in most Americans lifetimes.

By some measures, immigration reached a crescendo nationally in the 1990s,
despite federal measures meant to curtail legal entry.

Almost 44 percent of the nation's foreign-born arrived in the past 10 years,
compared with the previous peak of 32 percent in 1910.

California losing appeal

But California's luster has dimmed somewhat. California saw its share of new
U.S. arrivals drop from 37.6 percent in 1990 to 24.6 percent in 2000 as a
crippling recession, crowding, high living costs, social unrest and natural
disasters ate away at its appeal.

Breadbasket mainstays such as Iowa, Kansas and Nebraska and Sunbelt states such
as Georgia and the Carolinas picked up where California left off, as much as
quadrupling their share of immigrants.

While providing a jolt of economic energy to those new destinations, the
redistribution may also relieve some pressure on social services in California,
demographers said.

"Immigration was way out of scale in California," said Dowell Myers, director of
the Demographic Futures Project at the University of Southern California.
"Whatever your politics . . . it's just a lot to digest."

MERCURY NEWS:
FOREIGN-BORN CALIFORNIANS
Source: U.S. Census Bureau

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: MARK J. TERRILL -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Students walk outside the Evans Community Adult School on Thursday in Los
Angeles. The school offers free classes teaching English as a second language.
New census data shows that California leads the country in foreign-born
residents and also in those speaking a language other than English.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 6, 2001 Monday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

CALIFORNIA LOSING APPEAL TO IMMIGRANTS TWENTY-SIX PERCENT OF CALIFORNIA'S 33
MILLION RESIDENTS WERE FOREIGN-BORN. BUT WHILE THE STATE STILL LEADS THE NATION
IN IMMIGRANT POPULATION, DATA SHOWS THAT MANY ARE INCREASINGLY SETTLING IN OTHER
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1187 words


More than one in 10 U.S. residents are immigrants, the highest share of the
nation's overall population since the 1930s, and no state had a higher
percentage of foreign-born residents than California, the Census Bureau reported
today.

In all, 26 percent of the Golden State's 33 million residents, or 8.6 million
people, were foreign-born, with three quarters from Mexico or Asia. By
comparison, America's 30.5 million immigrants make up 11 percent of the total
population.

While the numbers are not surprising, the survey of 700,000 homes nationwide
provides the most current and comprehensive look at immigration.

The survey also showed that Californians continue to be the most likely to speak
another language in the home, but that the vast majority of children in those
homes speak English well.

Despite California's image as the nation's premier melting pot, the Census 2000
Supplementary Survey found that during the past 10 years, the Golden State has
not been as strong a magnet for immigrants as in the past. Other states are
gaining in popularity.

The reason: Immigrants bypassed traditional gateways to establish beachheads
across the South and the Farm Belt.

Of the 13.3 million immigrants who arrived in the past decade in the United
States, a smaller percentage settled in California than had in the 1980s.

"We've seen a major dispersal," said Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Urban
Institute in Washington, D.C. "They didn't just go to the old-line states."

Still, California added almost 3.3 million foreign-born residents in the 1990s,
capping an unprecedented three-decade surge that remade the state's identity and
economy while igniting a host of political and social issues.

The numbers hint at the potential impact of recent plans offered by President
Bush and congressional Democrats to expand the paths to legal residence,
analysts said.

Push for reductions

Those who favor reducing immigration levels said the survey results underlined
the need for more -- and better-enforced -- limits.

"We need a policy more based on skills, that allows somewhat fewer immigrants
overall, which would facilitate assimilation," said Steven Camarota, director of
research at the Center for Immigration Studies, an independent non-profit
research organization based in Washington, D.C. "It's certainly clear that the
networks and family connections are all in place so that any kind of amnesty
will cause the immigrant numbers to increase rapidly."

Immigration proponents, however, said the higher-than-expected foreign-born
numbers showed that newcomers had been a critical asset to the decade's
prosperity, not a drag on it.

"The anti-immigration folks say they're bringing us down; they aren't good
enough to be Americans," said Douglas Rivlin, spokesman for the National
Immigration Forum. "They said the same about Poles, Slavs and Jews. They were
wrong then, and they're wrong now."

The new census figures also found that 40 percent of Californians speak a
language other than English in their homes.

New Mexico was second at 36 percent, followed by Texas at 32 percent.
Nationwide, 18 percent of residents spoke a language other than English at home.

Hans Johnson, a researcher with the Public Policy Institute of California, said
that the vast majority of California immigrants' children reported speaking
English either "very well" or "well," however.

Among Spanish speakers, 86 percent of children had strong English language
skills. And about 90 percent of youths who speak an Asian or Pacific Island
language also spoke English "very well" or "well," he said.

"The high rate of languages spoken at home other than English is directly
attributable to the fact that you have a very large, young population of
children from parents who were born abroad," said Andres Jimenez, director ofthe
California Policy Research Center. "Children who are born here regularly see
family from Mexico and speak to their parents in Spanish. You also see it in the
Chinese and Southeast Asian communities."

Lawmakers and others who develop public policy need to adapt education, health
care, housing and transportation strategies to better serve immigrants, Jimenez
said.

Other findings

Today's release of new data also revealed other snapshots of America at the
close of the 20th century.

The data showed Americans finished the 1990s more prosperous in material wealth.

Among the findings:

* More Americans are graduating high school and college than ever before. In
2000, 82 percent of people 25 and older had graduated from high school and 25
percent had at least a bachelor's degree. In 1990, the figures were 75 percent
and 20 percent, respectively.

* Car ownership is at an all-time high. More than 90 percent of households owned
a car, van or truck in 2000. And 18 percent owned three or more vehicles.
Seventy-six percent of workers nationwide drove to work alone, up 3 percent from
1990.

* Homes are getting bigger. More than one out of four homes now has seven rooms
or more, up slightly from 10 years ago. This confirms other data showing that
nearly one of five new houses exceeds 3,000 square feet. In 2000, the median
monthly mortgage for U.S. homeowners was $1,307, significantly higher than a
decade ago.

* Poverty remains in many areas, however. Nearly 13 percent of the population
was living in poverty in 2000, down slightly from 1990 levels that are not
strictly comparable. Among the poor are 17 percent of children under 18 and 11
percent of adults 65 or over. Seventeen percent of households received some sort
of public assistance.

But perhaps no trend reshaped America's culture, economy, society, education and
identity than its changing diversity, driven by levels of immigration not seen
in most Americans lifetimes.

By some measures, immigration reached a crescendo nationally in the 1990s,
despite federal measures meant to curtail legal entry.

Almost 44 percent of the nation's foreign-born arrived in the past 10 years,
compared with the previous peak of 32 percent in 1910.

California losing appeal

But California's luster has dimmed somewhat. California saw its share of new
U.S. arrivals drop from 37.6 percent in 1990 to 24.6 percent in 2000 as a
crippling recession, crowding, high living costs, social unrest and natural
disasters ate away at its appeal.

Breadbasket mainstays such as Iowa, Kansas and Nebraska and Sunbelt states such
as Georgia and the Carolinas picked up where California left off, as much as
quadrupling their share of immigrants.

While providing a jolt of economic energy to those new destinations, the
redistribution may also relieve some pressure on social services in California,
demographers said.

"Immigration was way out of scale in California," said Dowell Myers, director of
the Demographic Futures Project at the University of Southern California.
"Whatever your politics . . . it's just a lot to digest."

CHART:  MERCURY NEWS
FOREIGN-BORN CALIFORNIANS
California residents born in a foreign country:  8.6 million or 26 percent

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MARK J. TERRILL -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Students walk outside the Evans Community Adult School on Thursday in Los
Angeles. The school offers free classes teaching English as a second language.
New census data shows that California leads the country in foreign-born
residents and also in those speaking a language other than English.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 7, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION;
A QUESTION OF IDENTITY

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 639 words


I love immigrants. I've never been one, unless you count my 10 years on the East
Coast, but if I could, I'd like to be an immigrant in California.

For starters, I'd have plenty of company. The Census Bureau this week issued
another of its new annual surveys, or snapshots, of the population. It said
there are now 8.6 million foreign-born Californians.

That's about one in every four persons in earthquake land, the highest ratio of
any state. Most of the immigrants arrived during the past three decades.

Now, this news was enough to get the cultural conservatives and
zero-population-growth folks all worked up into another frenzy for immigration
reform.

"We need a policy more based on skills, that allows somewhat fewer immigrants
overall, which would facilitate assimilation," said Steven Camarota, director of
the conservative Center for Immigration Studies.

That pretty much sums up the anti- or less-immigration positions, but the one
thing we need to remember about the statement is how it starts with economics
and ends with national identity.

Every time I hear that argument, which is every time the Census Bureau reports
on immigrants, I hear the words of conservative writer Francis Fukayama, who
wrote only a few years ago that "the heart of the immigration issue . . . is not
about economics but about the nature of American nationality."

The two popular economic arguments against immigration -- that immigrants drain
public services and reduce the job prospects and earnings of poorer Americans --
haven't panned out after 15 years of research and debate.

The worst we can say is that the cost of immigration, measured by taxes paid and
services used by immigrants, is a wash. When you figure in the unique value of
their work to the general economy, such as keeping agriculture and the garment
industry alive, immigrants are a plus.

So, let's switch the focus on immigration away from economics this time and
bring the question of national identity to the forefront.

I don't expect that to happen any time soon, but just in case it does, here are
two somewhat relevant findings from the census report mentioned above:

An overwhelming majority of California immigrant children said they can speak
English well or very well. Eighty-six percent of Spanish-speaking children had
strong English language skills. For Asian youths, the rate was 90 percent.

Now, you can't simply reduce national culture or identity to language. If we did
that, we'd have to expel Texas from the union. But it's fair to use language as
one measurement of assimilation.

The new census survey gives us more evidence that today's immigrants are
learning English faster than any other immigrant wave in history.

If the real worry is whether immigrants can assimilate, then why don't we have a
national policy or office for helping them get what they need to becomebetter
residents or citizens? Like I said, there's more to American national identity
than speaking English. There's voting, civic involvement, expressing opinions
freely, just to name three.

There's a great demand for English-instruction night classes, but we don't offer
nearly enough of them.

Any drive to encourage immigrants to become citizens and vote is likely to run
up against partisan opposition from the Republican Party. The GOP fears that
most immigrants will register as Democrats, and they're right. So what? Many
immigrants will start voting Republican as they become affluent and move to the
suburbs.

Of course, the most culturally fearful Americans will never be satisfied unless
immigrants totally abandon their native languages and customs, or at least keep
them at home and not in public. I can't think of anything more un-American that
suppressing cultural freedom, but it's a debate that needs to come to the
surface.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 7, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNMENT TO RAISE IMMIGRATION FEES

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to raise fees for immigrants
for services ranging from fingerprinting to obtaining green cards.

Under the proposed fee structure, the INS would charge $255, or $35 more, for
permanent residency green cards. Naturalization fees would go up $35 to $260.
Work permit and international adoption fees would rise to $120 and $460, $20 and
$55 increases, respectively. The agency hopes to put the fees in place in
January.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 8, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAMILY MAKEUP CENSUS HIGHLIGHTS TOGETHERNESS FACTOR LIVING PATTERNS VARY BY
ETHNIC CATEGORY

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN AND TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 917 words


New census figures reveal stark differences in how ethnic and racial groups live
in the Bay Area, with Latinos and Asians more likely to live with their
families, and whites and blacks much more likely than other groups to live
alone.

Immigration more than any other factor is behind these differences, some
demographers said.

Because first-generation immigrants tend to be poor and come from countries
where extended families are the norm, they are more likely to band together. But
the longer people live in the United States and the more they earn, the more
likely they are to live in nuclear families, with roommates or alone.

"If immigrants follow patterns of the past, then their family structures will
evolve more like native-born Americans," said Steven Camarota, research director
for the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C. "But, immigrants are
starting out a lot poorer than they used to. So we really don't know what that
means for their children's family patterns."

The latest release of data from the 2000 U.S. Census -- with information on the
racial and age composition of households -- also revealed:

* Blacks -- especially those under 65 -- are leaving Bay Area cities, such as
East Palo Alto, Oakland and San Francisco. The Bay Area's black population as a
whole dropped 4.5 percent from 1990 to 2000. But the number of blacks 65 and
over grew 7 percent.

* The percentage of families headed by single parents remained almost the same
in each race as it was in 1990: for blacks, 30.1 percent; for Hispanics, 16.6
percent; for whites, 9.6 percent; and for Asians, 7 percent.

* The number of single dads grew in each racial group, while the number of
single moms leveled off. But single moms still account for the vast majority of
single parents.

The census figures also underscore a key difference between the Bay Area's two
largest cities: Families make up 73.6 percent of all households in San Jose,
compared with just 44 percent in San Francisco.

Latinos in both cities are more likely to live with relatives. In San Jose, 84.1
percent of Hispanic households are families. In San Francisco, it's 59.4
percent.

Latinos also are more likely than other groups to live with their extended
families. In San Jose, Hispanic families had an average of one extended family
member, compared with whites, who had 0.2 members. For blacks, the average is
0.4. Asians had the second-highest average with 0.7.

"To Asians, you don't even entertain the idea of saying no" to family, said
Evelyn Santiago, 38, an immigrant from the Philippines who lives in San Jose,
with her husband, two children and her in-laws. "The choices wereeconomic to
begin with. But even though we can live apart, it's easier to live this way."

She's become so accustomed to the arrangement, she said, "I told my husband, 'If
we ever have a divorce, I'll take my in-laws with me.' "

Many such extended families are temporary arrangements to help new immigrants
get a leg up.

"We're willing to make sacrifices to help each other," said Victor Garza, a San
Jose community activist who took six family members into his three-bedroom home
for three years, while they saved money to buy their own homes. "Of course, we'd
all like to have our own houses."

Ethnic differences also exist among those living alone. Latinos are the least
likely to live as singles. Just 13 percent of Bay Area Hispanic households are
singles. For Asians, the figure is 17 percent. But 29 percent of black
households and 30 percent of white are single people.

One reason fewer Latinos live alone is that the population has more minors than
other groups, said Hans Johnson, a demographer with the San Francisco-based
Public Policy Institute of California. "Hispanics, even among young adults, are
more likely to be married with children," he said.

Michele Sierra, 29, an aide to Santa Clara County Supervisor Jim Beall, lives
alone in San Jose, despite offers from her family to live with them rent-free.

"They worry about how it's not safe," she said. "I wanted my independence. I
love that you can come home and the way you left it in the morning is the way it
is at night."

Elderly live alone

A significant portion of those living alone are elderly. In the Bay Area, 7.9
percent of households are composed of single people who are 65 and over; 18
percent are single people 15 to 64 years old.

The majority of seniors who live alone are women, because they live an average
of six years longer than men. The average lifespan for a woman in California is
80 years.

For Leone Mercer, 85, of San Jose, living alone was not her choice. Her husband
of 49 years died 17 years ago.

"You adjust to things; you have to," she said. "I still miss him."

Steady in Bay Area

Nationally, the percentage of single households rose from 1990 to 2000, but it
held steady in the Bay Area. Both figures are now 25.8 percent.

Demographers speculate that one reason why the percentage of Bay Area single
households has leveled off is because housing costs so much. Income data from
the census is not yet available.

Greg Sison, 43, of San Francisco, came up with a novel approach. He lives on a
boat, which also earns him a tax break because it's his primary residence.

"I like the freedom of being on the water and going where I want," said Sison,
who is a sales director for a manufacturing company. "I wake up in the morning;
I'm seeing birds feed. I have a view of Alcatraz and the Golden Gate Bridge."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CENSUS 2000
RELATED STORIES: Page 1A
Mercury News database analyst Seth Hemmelgarn contributed to this report.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM CENSUS
Here are some census highlights from around the Bay Area:
* San Jose has the most white single dads: 2,362
* San Jose has the most Latino homeowners: 27,489
* Milpitas has the highest percentage of Asian homeowners: 35.1 percent
* Oakland has 1,417 fewer black homeowners than in 1990.
* Monte Sereno has the highest percentage of white households that are families:
84.1 percent
* East Palo Alto has the highest percentage of Hispanic households thatare
families: 92.2 percent
* Emeryville has the highest percentage of Asians living alone: 60.2 percent
* Average family size increased the most in Colma, San Mateo County, from 3.29
to 3.92.
* Los Altos Hills has the highest percentage of married family households: 79
percent
* Sonoma has the highest percentage of women living alone: 28.2 percent
* Emeryville has the highest percentage of men living alone: 28 percent
* Roseland in Sonoma County has the highest percentage of single dads with
children: 5 percent
* Richmond has the highest percentage of single moms with kids: 9.2 percent
* Monte Rio in Sonoma County has the highest percentage of unmarried couples
living together: 16.2 percent.
* Guerneville in Sonoma County has the highest percentage of male couples living
together: 4.9 percent. San Francisco comes in at No. 6 with 2 percent.
* Guerneville also has the highest percentage of female couples living together:
2.92 percent.
* Atherton and Monte Sereno have the highest percentage of children who live
with both parents: 91 percent.
* In San Jose, 17,481 children live in households headed by a grandparent. More
than half of those children are Latino.
* Children living in Contra Costa County's Bethel Island (population 2,312) are
the most likely to have a grandparent as a head of household.
* Santa Rosa had the largest increase in the number of children living with only
one parent, up 2,361 from 1990. San Francisco had the largest decline, with
4,081 fewer in 2000.
* Inverness in Marin County has the highest percentage of children who live with
just their father: 18 percent.
* The largest increase in
children occurred
in San Jose, up 27,196 or 13 percent since 1990; the largest decrease was in San
Francisco, down 4,081 or 3 percent.
-- Mercury News research

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Leone Mercer, 85, who lives alone in a senior retirement community in San Jose,
is part of the story told by the 2000 U.S. Census.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 13, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHILDREN OF LATINO IMMIGRANTS CHOOSING TO HAVE SMALLER FAMILIES IN THE SOTO
CLAN, SECOND GENERATION SLOWS BABY BOOM

BYLINE: ANNE MARTINEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1743 words


The two-story San Jose home with a dining table that seats 12 and a garage
transformed into a playroom just isn't enough space for the tightknit Soto
family.

There's Josefina Soto, 68, the matriarch whose home is the hub for countless
weekend gatherings. There are her 11 children and their spouses. And there are
her 23 grandchildren, some college-age, some barely out of diapers.

The family has grown so large over the years that the Sotos now celebrate
Thanksgiving outside over four 20-pound turkeys, 12 pumpkin pies and a steady
supply of rice and beans. But even as their numbers grow with each new
grandchild, the Soto family is shrinking.

Armed with more diplomas, fatter wallets and loftier dreams, the current
generation of the Soto family is choosing to have fewer children than the last.
They and families like them are quietly slowing the Latino baby boom that is
transforming the state. And as they do, they are offering California powerful
evidence that the boom will ultimately diminish.

The longer Latinos live in the United States, the more their families begin to
mirror those of other native-born Americans. Josefina Soto, like other Latino
immigrants who have crossed the border, brought with her centuries-old
traditions that value large families.

But like many other middle-class Americans, the newest generation of Sotos has
begun to place greater value on careers and the perks that often come with
having a small family: more summer vacations and after-school dance lessons.

The Sotos' lives weave an American tale of assimilation and ascension, one
played over time and again since the birth of this country.

New way of life

"I don't want to push my grandchildren to get married too soon," Soto explained
on a recent morning as she watched over two of her younger grandchildren. "Let
them get married and have kids when they want to. In my day, if you were 15,
they were already talking about marriage."

It was the late 1940s when Soto, a native of Tampico, Mexico, crossed the Rio
Grande at 16, wading through chest-deep water in search of a better life than
her job ironing pants for 35 cents a dozen could offer. She was an orphan with a
third-grade education, in charge of sending the pennies she earned home to her
three younger siblings.

But at 19, when she married her late husband, a Texas-born Mexican-American, her
life changed. She would spend the next 16 years creating a family that would go
further than she ever imagined.

She never longed for a prescribed number of children. Like many Latino women who
cross the border holding traditions rich in family values, she left that
decision up to her faith.

"Once I started having children, I had as many as God wanted," Soto says.

She embraced each new child with unbridled anticipation. Until Soto -- a day
after her 32nd birthday -- found herself sitting in a San Jose hospital bed
cradling her 10th child.

She was tired, and her body was weak. She pleaded with the nurse for what was
once unthinkable. "Forgive me, but I can't have any more kids," she told the
nurse. "I want my tubes tied before I get pregnant again."

The nurse scoffed at the idea, pointing out that as a practicing Catholic, Soto
shouldn't dare take the decision out of God's hands. The nurse never relayed the
request to the doctor, and Soto went on to have one last child three years
later.

Soto admits it was tough in the beginning, raising 11 children on her husband's
$1.25-an-hour job as a truck driver and the meager pay he earned later as a
janitor. The family lived its early years in a two-bedroom home near downtown
San Jose, spending the summer picking strawberries and onions. Back then, they
celebrated Thanksgiving over a modest dinner of chicken and canned goods
delivered to needy families.

But Soto has no regrets. She watched all 11 children graduate from high school.
She marveled as each went on to college; two received their associate's degrees.
And she beamed with pride when they bought their homes -- all but one within 10
minutes of her East San Jose Camelot.

"Who would've thought that a woman with no parents would come to this country
not knowing the language and be here today surrounded by all this family?" Soto
said on Easter Sunday as the aroma of menudo and homemade tortillas filled the
kitchen and her family gathered for the second time that weekend.

Bound by more than just blood, the Sotos enjoy one another's company as much as
they do a well-orchestrated Easter egg hunt. The tradition played itself out
this year as it has in the past, with the adults scurrying around like children,
hiding dozens of candy-filled eggs in the front yard.

Jose Soto, one of Josefina's five sons, dropped to his knees and began to
furiously dig a shallow hole in his mother's flower bed. There, he hid the
ultimate treasure for the older grandchildren -- an oversize yellow plastic egg
stuffed with coins and dollar bills. This time, he thought, he'd fool them.

Fat chance.

"Oh, my poor plant. They're going to kill it," Josefina Soto shouted as her
22-year-old granddaughter, Veronica Segovia, unearthed the precious pot amid
cheers and laughter.

Josefina Soto couldn't help but smile. It is moments like these, she said, that
define a family.

Higher stakes

By the time her children began having their own families, Soto noticed how much
times had changed since the days of picking fruit and packing 11 children into
the back of a station wagon. Most of her children married in their early or
mid-20s. Only one had four children; most had fewer than three. They and their
spouses landed better jobs with better pay.

The stakes suddenly seemed higher, too, as they tried to build better lives for
their children.

Maria Segovia, the oldest, bought a second, more spacious home with a swimming
pool in Tracy. Rosemary Garcia, the next-eldest daughter, lived
paycheck-to-paycheck to send her oldest son to the prestigious Bellarmine
College Preparatory school in San Jose. And Cruz Soto Jr., the oldest son,
recently paid $1,200 to send his youngest son to Washington, D.C., on a school
field trip.

"My parents would have never been able to afford that. With 11 kids, they
couldn't afford to do a lot of things," Cruz Soto said as his son, Marcos,
anxiously counted the hours until leaving for D.C. the following day. "For us,
if we have the money, we do it."

For many of the Soto siblings and other parents like them, weighing the
trade-offs that come with a large family evolves from generation to generation.

For Latinos, the average number of children per family drops from 3.5 to 2.6
between the first and second generations, according to Hans Johnson, a
demographer who is studying Latino birth rates at the Public Policy Institute of
California. By the third generation, demographers project, the fertility rate
drops to 2.0 children per family.

Grace Garcia, the middle child of the Soto family, is ahead of the curve. The
way she sees it, paying for the after-school swimming lessons, theater classes
and summer vacations to New York and Yosemite would require too many sacrifices
if she had more than two children. She'd have to work full time and give up her
"free Fridays," when she spends the day volunteering at herchildren's elementary
school.

Beyond the extra quality time that comes with fewer children, Grace Garcia
believes there is a greater good to having a small family:

"Zero-growth population," she said with a grin, repeating the term she learned
in the fourth grade and has never forgotten. "Resources are so limited, if we
continue to have children at the rate my parents did, we'd deplete those
resources."

She gleefully points out that her sister, Rosemary Garcia, is known
affectionately within the family as "Fertile Myrtle," a nickname that was coined
after Rosemary gave birth to her third child and stuck after she had her fourth.
But even Rosemary admits she had second thoughts about having her fourth child,
realizing the financial sacrifices she and her husband would have to make.

"When Jose made it through his first year at Bellarmine, I thought: 'OK. We made
it, we didn't go broke, we ate,' " she said of her oldest son. "I couldn't
believe when he graduated. We actually did it."

Changing expectations

Now Jose Garcia, Rosemary's first child, is a 22-year-old junior at the
University of California-Berkeley studying anthropology. He is at the helm of a
new generation of the Soto clan, driven by new ambitions and new priorities.

Graduating from high school, though still a milestone, is far from the end of
the road for this bunch. Part-time jobs are only necessary to help pay for
luxuries their parents don't already provide: gas for the new Dodge Ram (a
graduation gift), a weekend manicure or tickets to a must-see concert.

And having a family?

Only after they earn a college degree, land the perfect job, settle down with
the person they love and buy a home, in that order. The Sotos, like others in
their generation, have become increasingly pragmatic.

"I need to be able to take care of myself first before I take care of anyone
else," Veronica Segovia, a San Jose State University student, said of the
prospect of having children one day. "I want to live comfortably and give my
kids what they want, not just what they need."

And just as their expectations evolve, so do their definitions of what
constitutes a large family. Maria Segovia described her decision to "only have
three children" as opting for a small family. But when her daughter, Veronica,
talks about the possibility of having a large family, three seems like plenty.

Yet the thought of three children makes Tony Garcia's head spin.

"It's too expensive around here to have a big family," said the 20-year-old
computer science student at San Jose State University.

Garcia is the second of Rosemary's four children. He doesn't hesitate when asked
how many children he hopes to have one day. He has thought about this already.
He knows. He wants either two or none.

Even he couldn't imagine having a child without a sibling.

CHART:  MERCURY NEWS
THE SOTO FAMILY
The first generation of the Soto family born in the United States has chosen to
have fewer children than the previous generations.  They and families like them
are slowing the Latino baby boom that is transforming the state.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: POPULATION TREND: SECOND OF TWO PARTS

GRAPHIC: Photos (4), Chart;
PHOTO: EUGENE H. LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
FAMILY MATRIARCH: Josefina Soto, celebrating her 68th birthday at Lake
Cunningham in April, has 11 children. But while immigrants' high birthrates have
fueled a Latino baby boom in California, their childrenare having smaller
families.
PHOTO: EUGENE H. LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
CELEBRATING TOGETHER: Albert Soto, one of Josefina Soto's 23 grandchildren,
comes up with the ball in a game at one of the huge family's frequent
gatherings.
PHOTO: EUGENE H. LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Josefina Soto's large family turned out to celebrate her birthday in April at
Lake Cunningham. Pictured, from left, are grandson Jose Manuel Garcia, daughters
Gloria Alva and Rosemary Garcia, and grandson Albert Soto.
PHOTO: EUGENE H. LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Josefina Soto's granddaughter Alexia Soto shares a moment with her mother,
Sylvia Soto, during the family's Easter Sunday gathering at the matriarch's home
in San Jose.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 21, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EASTERN EUROPEANS MAKING NEW HOMES AROUND SACRAMENTO IMMIGRANTS FROM UKRAINE,
RUSSIA ARRIVED IN THE PAST TWO DECADES

BYLINE: JIM WASSERMAN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


When Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev opened the doors to a wave of evangelical
emigration in the late 1980s, thousands of Ukrainians and Russians started
making their way to California's capital.

They've been coming ever since, a group now nearing 75,000 people in the city.
That community was rocked Monday, when, authorities said, 27-year-old Nikolay
Soltys allegedly killed five people in a spree that covered two Sacramento-area
suburbs.

"He's making a black mark on our community," said Eugene Kovalenko, who moved to
Sacramento in 1995.

Following a mass migration that gathered steam through much of the 1990s, the
newcomers have established a major presence in neighborhoods beyond a downtown
of government buildings. The immigrant groups boast two TV companies, a pair of
radio stations, several small newspapers, private schools and a half-dozen
Russian-style stores.

Like many immigrant groups, the lives of the older people revolve around
traditional churches, in this case Baptist and Pentecostal, while teenagers
learn English and the new ways they see on television.

The city's Ukrainians, a mixture of farming and city people in their native
land, are scattered across several suburban communities of Sacramento. But the
greatest concentrations are found on the city's north side.

In the Rio Linda Union Elementary School District, 15 percent of the district's
limited-English-speaking students are Ukrainian, said district spokeswoman Heidi
Van Zant.

These immigrant Ukrainians and Russians trace their arrival in Sacramentoto a
short-wave radio broadcaster, Paul Demetrious, who bounced his religious signal
across the Pacific Ocean during the Cold War. For decades, people held to their
religious beliefs and practices despite official Soviet atheist doctrine.

"That's why people came," Romaso said. He says they knew of Sacramento long
before they had ever seen the city.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: Page 1A

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 22, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SOLTYS ENTERED AMERICA WITHOUT POLICE CLEARANCES CHECKS WAIVED FOR RELIGIOUS
REFUGEES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Nikolay Soltys, the Ukrainian immigrant suspected of slaying six relatives,
entered the United States under a special 1989 refugee program that lacked
standard police clearances required of other immigrants.

Soltys and nearly 400,000 other evangelical Christians and Jews came to the
United States in an operation that provided easy refugee status to religious
groups claiming persecution by the former Soviet Union.

Approximately 75,000 have settled in the Sacramento metropolitan area of 1.8
million people.

Under the so-called Lautenberg Amendment, named for former New Jersey Sen. Frank
Lautenberg, religious refugees underwent a less-demanding immigration and
criminal background process than others trying to move to the United States,
authorities say.

At the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, spokesman Bill Strassberger
defended the agency's standards Tuesday, but admitted they are "slightly
different for refugees fleeing persecution. We're not able to have them supply a
police clearance."

In the wake of Monday's slayings, questions have arisen concerning Soltys'
ability to enter the United States. The killings brought to light an anecdotal
history of domestic spousal abuse in Ukraine, mental instability and rejection
from the Ukrainian army.

Specialists say immigrants seeking admission to the United States traditionally
provide clearance from their local police department.

But refugees claiming persecution and admitted under the Lautenberg Amendment
had a lower standard during the 1990s.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 22, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS CHIEF SAYS AGENCY DOES NOT NEED TO SPLIT

BYLINE: SUZANNE GAMBOA, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner James Ziglar said Tuesday
that services could be improved for immigrants without splitting the agency in
two.

The INS has been criticized for taking too long -- sometimes years -- to process
applications and for mistreating some of those applying for benefits. Some in
Congress are pushing to divide the INS, believing it would be better run if its
services were split between two agencies, one for enforcement and the other for
services.

Ziglar said he doesn't think that is necessary.

"I don't think we need massive legislation. What we have to demonstrate to the
Congress is that we have the will to do this here," Ziglar told reporters.

The new commissioner said he wants everyone who comes in contact with the INS to
be treated with respect and dignity, and hopes to improve technology at the
agency to cut down on application backlogs.

Ziglar said he hopes to start making changes this fall. He said he does not
anticipate layoffs because of the changes, although he said some employees may
be relocated. He said he wants to do away with supervisors in INS field offices
who oversee enforcement duties and services.

Ziglar, who has had little experience on immigration issues, took over his post
three weeks ago.

A former Wall Street executive, he most recently served as sergeant-at-arms, the
chief administrator of the Senate, and is a childhood friend of Minority Leader
Trent Lott, R-Miss.

Those who support splitting the duties of immigration law enforcement and
benefit distribution say it will eliminate the poor service that arises from the
conflicting missions of INS. But detractors fear dividing the agency will lead
to more money being spent on enforcement, which historically has been more
popular with Congress.

Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., chair of the House Judiciary Committee, has
said INS reform must occur before Congress considers creating President Bush's
proposed guest-worker program with Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DOUG MILLS -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
INS Commissioner James Ziglar, new to the post, says he hopes to improve
services soon.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 17, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TECH BOOT CAMP PROGRAM PUTS VALLEY STUDENTS A STEP AHEAD

BYLINE: K. OANH HA, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1095 words


When Gilberto Martin starts work as a system administrator Monday, he'll be the
first in his family to work in an office. At 19, he'll earn more than his father
does.

"People in my family work in the fields, they wash dishes," said Martin. "This
job is a big step up for me -- and my family too."

Martin and 27 other Evergreen Valley College students, many with backgrounds
very similar to his, will graduate Friday from an intensive summer boot camp
designed to train young Silicon Valley residents from poor communities to do
high-tech jobs that would ordinarily go to foreign workers.

The summer boot camp, funded by a U.S. Department of Labor grant, willexpand to
other community colleges and training centers in the next few months to train
local residents on welfare-to-work programs, workers whose companies have left
the area and those already in the industry who want to seek more technical
positions.

The program was conceived to meet the information technology industry's shortage
of workers -- estimated at up to 400,000 -- by training U.S. workers. By year's
end, the Labor Department will award nearly $80 million to train approximately
5,000 U.S. workers for jobs that otherwise might go to foreign workers. A
portion of the funds comes from the $500 fee that companies pay for each visa
under the H-1B program.

The program at Evergreen Valley College brought together government, educators,
industry and community organizations. The boot camp was administrated by Nova
Workforce Board, a governmental agency focusing on workforce issues. Evergreen
college instructors, along with Sun Microsystems Inc., developed the criteria.

The students were trained to work as system administrators -- the techies who
manage a company's computer network.

"We don't have a worker shortage. We have a skill shortage," said Henry Estrada,
one of the instructors who taught at the Evergreen boot camp. "Part of the
answer to that is right here in Silicon Valley. We have a lot of very capable
people in our communities who just need an opportunity to learn the skills the
high-tech industry needs."

To walk into the computer lab where Martin and his classmates have spent six
hours a day for the last eight weeks is like cruising the neighborhoods of South
San Jose. Among the 28 students are 15 Latinos, three African-Americans, three
Filipinos, four Vietnamese-Americans and three whites. They range in age from 18
to 40, though most of them are college age. Nearly half are women.

Experience not key

Though many had experience with computers, a few were novices. The most
important criterion for being picked was each student's commitment to the
program. One woman drove to classes each day from Alameda County. The students
voluntarily met in the evenings and on weekends to study together. A chat board
set up especially for the class was often filled with questions about the study
material.

Over the course of the program, a definite esprit de corps developed among the
students, instructors said. "What they all shared was that most of them saw this
as a way to make a difference with their lives," said instructor Henry Gee.

It was a turning point for Cathy Hong, a recent graduate of the University of
California-Davis who just finished her first year as a teacher. She loved to
teach but was making less than $30,000. Hong, a Vietnamese immigrant, was
thinking of switching careers when she learned of the program while taking a
database class with instructor Estrada.

"This is just the first step to get into the computer field," said Hong, who
wants to be a database or networking manager. "I don't just want to be a system
administrator for the rest of my life."

It's estimated the high-tech industry will create more than 5 million jobs
between 1998 and 2008, though many tech executives worry there won't be enough
workers to fill those jobs. The industry has lobbied hard for legislation to
significantly increase the number of foreign workers from countries such as
India, China and Canada.

This year's allotment of 115,000 H-1B visas was reached in March, six months
before the end of the fiscal year. Current proposals in Congress would nearly
double that allotment to 200,000 a year over the next three years.

Those who oppose the importation of foreign workers argue that the labor gap
could be filled with U.S. workers, particularly with training.

Companies like Cisco Systems Inc. and Sun say programs like the one at Evergreen
are part of the answer. At several schools, including Evergreen, Sun paid for
half the cost of the computer labs, equipping them with Unix servers and
computer systems. Sun also helped develop the courses.

"We're in this for ourselves because we have this need for workers," said Leslie
Bowers, the program manager for the training program. "We're filling a void."

Bowers said the program would also help Sun's customers and partners, whooften
have to pay high rates for contract work because of vacancies. Sun, for example,
consistently has 30 unfilled system administrator positions. In fact, Sun
managers will be at the Evergreen graduation ceremony Friday and plan to
interview the graduates in the next few weeks. Bowers doesn't think the students
will have trouble finding jobs.

After the program is finished next spring, it will have trained 202 workers.
Though that's an insignificant number compared with the hundreds of thousands of
workers needed, the program has serves an additional purpose: "We're hoping to
show that there is success with people who aren't in the technology sector,"
said Ruben Barrales of the non-profit Joint Venture: Silicon Valley, who will be
at Friday's graduation ceremony.

Like 22-year-old Alicia Rocero. Originally from Fresno, Rocero moved to San Jose
to live with her aunt and uncle last year "to get serious with my life," she
said. Though Rocero had no prior computer experience, she discussed the idea of
taking computer classes with a guidance counselor, who steered her to the
program.

Study sessions

The first several weeks were rough, Rocero said. "I almost thought I wouldn't
make it." Her classmates and the extra study sessions pulled her through. "They
kept telling me I could do it and told me not to give up. I'm glad I didn't."

She said she was also driven by the fact that she'd be among the few Latinas in
the tech industry. Rocero's plans to get a systems administrator job and
continue to take more computer classes. She's also sending her friends a
message: "If I can do it, they can do it too."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For more information about job training programs, call Nova Workforce Board at
(408) 730-7232.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
Above: Irma Gonzalez asks a question of instructor Henry Estrada in the summer
technology training program at Evergreen Valley College. The 28 students are
training to be system administrators.
[000817 BU 1C]
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
Left: Gonzalez and Naliah S. Kelley work in the computer lab as they prepare to
take the certification test.
[000817 BU 1C]
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Grace Mateo and Christian Alexander are two of the 28 students in the tech
program at Evergreen Valley College. The students have spent six hours a day for
the last eight weeks in the program.
[000817 BU 9C]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 6, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SHIFT IN PUSH FOR TECH VISAS STRATEGY: AIM IS TO ATTACH THE MEASURE TO OMNIBUS
BUDGET BILL.

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 832 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Legislation to increase the number of temporary visas for high-tech foreign
workers remains stalled. High-tech lobbyists are shifting their strategy in an
attempt to get some sort of expansion of the program included in the next fiscal
budget during negotiations between the White House and congressional leaders
later this month.

Tech officials said Tuesday they were confident that somehow Congress and the
White House would agree to an increase to meet what they said is a growing
shortage of high-tech workers.

"It's critical within the next month that Congress take up this issue and act on
it," said Thom Stohler, director of workforce policy for the American
Electronics Association.

The group, which represents major high-tech companies, updated a 1998 report
Tuesday showing an increasing shortage of high-tech workers such as software
engineers nationwide. While the high-tech industry is forecast to create an
additional 2 million jobs by 2008, the number of American students getting
degrees in science and engineering has declined, the report said.

Opponents of an increase in the number of visas, such as the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA, said the program already wastes many
visas because of fraud and does not contain strong enough provisions to prevent
companies from hiring foreign workers over Americans. Opponents want changes in
immigration law to allow companies to bring workers in from abroad permanently,
instead of on a temporary basis.

The inclusion in the annual catch-all, omnibus budget bill is a high-risk
proposition. Although there is strong bipartisan support in Congress for
increasing the annual number of so-called H-1B visas, there's a lot of
horse-trading that goes on in budget negotiations in an election year. Even
priority items can get dropped at the last-minute because they endangerpassage
of the federal budget.

More companies have turned to the temporary H-1B visas to bring in engineers and
other skilled workers from countries such as India during the boom in the
high-tech industry. Congress temporarily expanded the program in 1998, but
allotment of 115,000 visas this year was reached in March, six months before the
end of the fiscal year. With the annual number of visas available set to drop to
107,500 next year, Silicon Valley has pushed for another increase and for
reforms in the program, such as exempting from the allotment foreign students
who graduate from American universities with advanced degrees in science and
engineering.

Congress seemed poised to do so earlier this year, with many Republicans and
Democrats embracing the idea of temporarily increasing the annual cap again to
about 200,000 visas.

But the issue has become ensnared in presidential politics. The White House last
spring said it wanted to include two other immigration provisions with
implications for Latinos in the H-1B visa legislation. Republicans said those
issues are unrelated to the tech worker shortage, but have been concerned that a
vote against the Latino issues could hurt them in November as both parties try
to appeal to the growing numbers of Latino voters.

That's led to a standstill in Congress, with three bills awaiting votes -- two
in the House of Representatives and one in the Senate. Senators returned to work
Tuesday, with House members returning today. A spokesman for Rep. David Dreier,
R-Covina, the chief sponsor of one of the visa bills, said talks would begin
soon among key backers of the bills and congressional leaders about how to break
the logjam.

The main sticking point has been the injection of the Latino immigration
proposals. One would extend a current immigration amnesty provision for
Nicaraguans and Cubans to others from Latin America. The second, known as late
amnesty, would allow illegal immigrants who entered the United States before
1986 to apply to become U.S. citizens. A similar amnesty was passed in 1980.

One way to avoid those issues being raised in debate on the H-1B visa increase
is to avoid a separate vote on the visa bills. Instead, they would include the
increase in visas as just another provision in the massive budget bill. Members
of Congress then cast one vote on the entire omnibus budget bill.

"I think we're looking at an omnibus strategy, which can get complicated because
there's multiple agendas coming into play," said Jenifer Verdery, manager of
education and workforce policy for Intel. If the visas become a sticking point
in getting the entire budget bill approved, the provisions could simply be
dropped, lobbyists said.

It makes for great uncertainty. The 1998 visa increase was included in the
budget bill, and the tech industry had hoped to avoid a similar fate this time.

Without an increase, Stohler said that the next fiscal year's allotment of visas
could be gone by this Christmas. That's because 60,000 visas are already in the
pipeline, ready to be approved when the 2001 fiscal year begins on Oct. 1.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 17, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INCREASE IN HIGH-TECH VISAS LIKELY

BYLINE: WILLIAM C. MANN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton predicted Saturday that Congress wouldincrease the number of
visas for foreign high-tech workers before the end of the current session and
indicated he would sign the legislation.

Speaking to reporters from India, origin of many of the so-called H-1B visitors,
Clinton said a major question remaining is how many more than the current
115,000 a year will be allowed in.

H-1B visas allow skilled workers to enter the United States for specified
periods to do specific jobs for which employers say American workers are
unavailable. The technology industry says the need is as high as 300,000 a year.
Labor unions object to the concept, contending that the high-tech industry
recruits overseas mainly to hire a less-expensive workforce than Americans.

"The number of H-1B visas will be increased in this Congress, I believe. I'll be
quite surprised if it isn't," Clinton said.

"There's no question that we're going to increase the visas."

The next Congress begins in January. A long-pending Senate bill would increase
the number of visas for each of the next three years to 200,000 a year.
Otherwise, the 115,000 falls to 107,500 in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 and
65,000 a year after that.

The bill ran into problems this year when Clinton said in May that any visa
increase had to be linked to changes in immigration policies, mainly involving
Latinos. Republican leaders insist the two questions have nothing to do with
each other and should be considered separately.

Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., the Senate majority leader, acted Friday to bring a
visa bill to a vote as early as Tuesday.

In his comments Saturday, Clinton did not mention the Latino question or any
other links.

"The issue is how much will it be increased by and can we use the occasion of
increasing the quotas to get some more funds from the companies that are hiring
people for the training of our own people," the president said. He said they
"could also do these jobs -- the people who are already here -- if they had
training."

Lott's press secretary, John Czwartacki, welcomed the president's comments,
although he said a lot of time had been wasted on the bill.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 20, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. SENATE DELAYS DEBATE ON INCREASING H-1B VISAS

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff and Bloomberg News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 72 words


The U.S. Senate voted 97-1 Tuesday to delay until later this week or next week
the debate on legislation to increase the annual number of visas available for
high-tech foreign workers. The legislation on so-called H-1B visas has been
stalled in Congress, and the Senate action could help break a logjam in the
House of Representatives on the controversial issue, which also is atop Silicon
Valley's list of legislative priorities.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TECH TICKER
Legislation

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 4, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH-TECH VICTORY ON VISAS CONGRESS APPROVES INCREASE IN SKILLED FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1357 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Silicon Valley won its top legislative priority after Congress voted
overwhelmingly Tuesday to nearly double the number of visas for highly skilled
foreign workers in a surprising bipartisan show of support for the high-tech
industry.

The Senate voted 96-1 Tuesday morning, and the momentum of that near-unanimous
vote led the House of Representatives to quickly take up the bill and pass it on
an unusual voice vote Tuesday night. President Clinton is expected to sign the
bill.

"It's done," rejoiced Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, one of the major backers of
the visa increase. "It addresses the needs of the high-tech economy, and . . .
there are important reforms."

The legislation had been stalled for months in a partisan fight over immigration
policy. But Tuesday's vote shows both Republicans and Democrats are anxious to
deliver for the high-tech industry before Congress adjourns this month.

"We have strong bipartisan agreement on it, and this is a very, very important
skilled workforce bill that we'll be able to provide to the president for his
signature," said Rep. David Dreier, R-Covina. Republican leaders in the House
moved quickly to bring up the measure Tuesday night after they suspended their
usual procedure.

The issue, once on a fast track to passage earlier this year, had become bogged
down in election-year politics. With the high-tech industry having unprecedented
difficulties filling jobs, the delays in passing the visa legislation have
caused consternation in Silicon Valley and touched off a flurry of lobbying in
recent weeks.

Increasing the number of H-1B visas has ranked with approval of a new trade deal
with China as the top Washington priorities of Silicon Valley this year. With
the Senate following the House in approving the China trade deal two weeks ago,
the high-tech industry has been able to focus all its fire on the visa issue.

"We could not have asked for a stronger vote," said Jenifer Verdery, Intel's
manager of education and workforce policy.

Seeking temporary increase

Faced with what high-tech executives said is a widespread shortage of qualified
computer programmers and engineers, Silicon Valley has pressed hard to again
temporarily increase the number of three-year H-1B visas in order to bring in
those workers from countries such as India.

"It's very important, because at the end of the day it's people who are driving
the Internet economy, not machines," said Laura Ipsen, director of government
affairs for Cisco. "We need more and more highly skilled engineers in the
company. We can't fill all the positions."

The legislation boosts the allotment from 115,000 this year to 195,000 in each
of the next three years.

Labor unions and the nation's largest organization for engineers charged that
the high-tech industry prefers foreign workers, who are beholden to the
companies who obtained their visas, over retraining American engineers from
other fields. The H-1B visa program also has been criticized for being rife with
fraud.

"This whole thing is just the wrong way to go," said Paul Donnelly of the
Immigration Reform Coalition, which includes the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers-USA. The coalition favors green cards to bring foreign
workers into the country permanently, arguing the temporary H-1B visas keep
salaries low because the workers aren't free to easily move to other companies.

H-1B visas allow foreigners with special skills to work temporarily in the
United States. The visa, which is applied for by the company seeking to employ
the person, is good for three years and can be renewed for an additional three
years.

Congress and the White House in 1998 agreed to a temporary expansion of the
program, more than doubling the annual allotment of visas to about 115,000. But
with the "New Economy" continuing to boom, those visas have proven insufficient
to meet the demand. All of this year's visas were allocated by the end of March
-- six months before the end of the fiscal year.

With the annual allotment set to start decreasing next year, the high-tech
industry has desperately pleaded with Congress and the White House to
temporarily boost the number again. Senators said Tuesday that they heeded the
call.

"This bill represents our commitment to keep America on top in the high-tech
industry," said Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, one of the key backers of the
legislation.

In addition to boosting the annual allotment of visas, the legislation will
funnel more of the annual $500 visa fee to education and training for Americans
in science and technology fields under changes in the bill proposed by Sen.
Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.

"I support lifting the H-1B visa cap, but clearly it is only a short-term
solution to a long-term problem," said Feinstein, who is recovering in
California from surgery on her broken leg and was among three senators who did
not vote on the bill. The amendments, along with others, would funnel about $450
million into education and retraining initiatives.

Another Feinstein provision would try to reduce the processing backlog at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The agency would devote more resources
to processing applications and would be required to process H-1B visas within 30
days, and process permanent employment visas and other visa applications within
six months.

No increase in fees

Different versions of the visa bill offered in the House of Representatives
would have doubled the fee companies pay for each visa, to $1,000, to provide
even more money for training and education. Although many in the Senate favor
increasing the fees, the Constitution prevented the Senate from initiating an
increase in taxes or fees.

But the easiest way for Congress to get an H-1B visa bill to the president this
year was for the House to simply vote on the Senate bill. Dreier is
co-sponsoring a separate bill to increase the fees that he is optimistic will
pass Congress in the coming days as well.

Several key Republicans and Democrats on Tuesday called for an end to the
partisanship that has stalled the visa increase -- though each side blamed the
other for the delays.

While there is strong support in both parties for increasing the number of
visas, the issue became bogged down in the spring when the White House and
congressional Democrats pushed to also include some provisions for Latinos.

Amnesty issues

One would extend a current immigration amnesty provision for Nicaraguans and
Cubans to others in Latin America. Another, known as late amnesty, would allow
illegal immigrants who entered the United States before 1986 to apply to become
U.S. citizens. A similar amnesty was passed in the 1980s for people who had
entered the country before 1972.

Those were volatile issues in an election year when both parties are appealing
to the growing Latino electorate, and the visa bills were shelved.

But the high-tech industry continued to press the need for an increase, and last
week Senate Republicans used their majority muscle to prevent Democrats from
adding the Latino provisions as amendments.

Congressional Democrats then largely removed the Latino issues from the debate
by shifting their strategy, vowing to try to attach them to one of the budget
bills Congress must pass before it adjourns. Clinton has promised to veto the
budget bill if they're not included.

With the Latino issues out of the way in the Senate, all but Sen. Ernest "Fritz"
Hollings, D-S.C., an ardent opponent of H-1B visas, voted for the bill.

"I think what you've seen in the last couple of weeks is a perhaps a realization
that all the political gamesmanship wasn't gaining either party any extra
points," said Jeff Modisett, co-CEO of TechNet, the Silicon Valley-based
high-tech lobbying group. "Many CEOs made calls, and the message was the same:
'We don't care about the partisanship, and we don't care about who gets to claim
credit. We just care that it gets done.' "

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
CONGRESS RAISES CAP ON H-1B VISAS
Source: Mercury News Washington Bureau, Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 5, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B HOLDERS CELEBRATE BILL'S PASSAGE WORKERS PRAISE REFORMS OF VISA LEGISLATION

BYLINE: JENNIFER BJORHUS, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 818 words


For many H-1B holders who fill the valley's tech corridors, swift congressional
approval of the visa legislation brought sweet, sweet relief.

A wash of emotion spread through the subculture of Bay Area foreign high-tech
workers via e-mail, Web site and telephone Wednesday as H-1B watchers reacted to
the news.

Tow Wang and Murali Devarakonda, two local board members of the Immigration
Support Network that lobbied hard for the bill, said they were thrilled that it
included all the reforms they sought.

"We called each other and everybody was so excited," Devarakonda said. The group
is planning a celebration bash for H-1B holders tonight in the South Bay.

The bill, which President Clinton has yet to sign, not only nearly doubles the
number of temporary work visas doled out to foreign workers but also aims to
ease the notoriously drawn-out process for obtaining permanent work visas, or
green cards.

Companies such as Intel Corp. -- which hired 450 workers on temporary visas last
year alone -- were busy Wednesday studying the implications of the legislation.
And while workers were elated, critics have said the legislation merely
continues a practice of giving jobs to foreign workers who become dependent on
the companies that hire them.

One-year extension

Under the bill, the federal government every quarter will distribute unused
green cards to people from those countries demanding more, such as China and
India. The bill also buys an extra year for workers whose H-1B visa has expired
under the six-year limit while they've been waiting for green cards. This
provision may have immediate implications for many Bay Area workers facing
expulsion as their H-1B clock runs out.

Workers such as Srinivas Pattamatta, a 30-year-old design engineer at Phillips
Semiconductor in San Jose.

"This is almost like a life-and-death situation," Pattamatta said.

Pattamatta's H-1B visa was set to expire in February, when he reached the
six-year mark. He would have been forced to leave the country. He and his wife
put off having children because of the uncertainty, he said. While the couple
went about their daily life, the worry nagged them, he said. It was like having
a "bomb strapped to you," he said.

If Clinton signs the bill, Pattamatta will have another year to wait for his
green card.

"I went to all the people who are on H-1B and I said 'Today is historic. Go tell
your kids.' They were all laughing," Pattamatta said of his colleagues at
Phillips. He said he knows as many as 10 people nervously awaiting green cards.

"My wife was relieved. She said 'Now this is all over. We can lead a normal
life.' "

Bhawna Gesota, a 30-year-old senior programmer analyst at Intel, called the
bill's passage a "big relief." Her work visa expires in March. Although she
didn't want to leave, she already was talking to Intel about relocating and
hasn't shopped for a house because of the uncertainty.

"Everybody is in limbo because nobody knows if they're going to get it in time
or not."

Intel employs so many people on H-1B visas that it has a group of human resource
experts and immigration attorneys focused on the issue. This year, Intel was
forced to move several employees offshore because their visas expired, said
Intel spokeswoman Tracy Koon. One lives now in Munich, a few others in Malaysia.
Koon said she hopes the new bill will help prevent such "nightmare" situations.

At the South Bay AFL-CIO Labor Council, the new bill was greeted with
resignation. Staff director Marion Steeg said she saw the bill "as writing on
the wall."

The union is primarily concerned that foreign workers be given the same rights
and protections as American workers, Steeg said. Technology companies aren't
doing enough to invest in public schools and train the workers they need here at
home, she said. Bringing in foreign workers on visas is frequently a way of
creating a contingent and dependent workforce with fewer rights, she said.

Union shifts strategy

The union is working to shift its strategy, she said, to protect workers in a
New Economy environment that is highly competitive and individualistic. Far more
workers are temporary now and hop from company to company.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, D.C., a forceful
opponent of the H-1B program, lashed out.

"It's a wholesale replacement program of American workers," said spokesman David
Ray. "It's modern-day indentured servitude."

That's not how Devarakonda sees it. To Devarakonda, a 33-year-old software
engineer in Fremont, the H-1B visa means a cherished new professional life.

He is still waiting for his green card and remains confident he can work out a
solution. Although his wife has sometimes suggested they return to India, he
says he wouldn't give up his American life, even for the freedom he would have
back in India.

"America has given me a lot," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 5, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TECH GETS ITS WAY CONGRESS APPROVES AN INCREASE IN H-1B VISAS TO 195,000 (OR
MORE) FOR THE NEXT THREE YEARS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 510 words


IN the end, high tech got what it wanted. It usually does.

After months of back-room bickering, Congress doubled the annual quota for
temporary work visas serving primarily the computer industry. Final passage came
quickly and easily this week, with a voice vote in the House and a 96-1 margin
in the Senate, just in time for the early October rush to file applications.

The legislation, which President Clinton is expected to sign, will increasevisas
for skilled workers, known as H-1Bs, to 195,000 for each of the next three
years. But the total will actually be greater, since the current backlog --
possibly tens of thousands of applications in the pipeline -- won't be counted
toward the cap. Neither will visas for university research.

Silicon Valley companies like Oracle and Intel have made a strong case that a
high-tech labor shortage, particularly in specialized areas of engineering and
programming, justifies an increase in H-1Bs. Had Congress taken no action, the
annual H-1B cap would have dropped to 65,000 in two years. That would have been
disastrous, and might have encouraged companies to farm out operations abroad.

But there is also increasing evidence, largely anecdotal, that the system is
rife with abuse. This is particularly so among the "job shops" that sponsor H-1B
workers, mainly from India, then contract them out to valley companies. As a
result, it has been difficult to document whether the 195,000 limit reflects the
true shortage or includes a fudge factor for fraud.

Two years ago, Congress commissioned the National Science Foundation to do an
extensive study of high-tech employment needs. Congress acted this week without
the benefit of that hard data, even though the study is due out later this
month.

What is certain is that an inefficient Immigration and Naturalization Service
has been unable to keep up with visa applications. The Department of Labor has
been slow to weed out fraud. Doubling the work load won't make the system work
any better.

Though intended to be a temporary program, most H-1B workers view a 6-year H-1B
as a step to a green card or permanent visa. Program rules and INS' processing
delays have left H-1B holders feeling trapped in their jobs, vulnerable to
exploitation.

The new law will give H-1B holders more freedom to change employers and to
extend their stay in America while their green card application is pending. It
will also loosen the strict national quotas on green cards and set time limits
for processing. These are needed reforms.

A separate bill working its way through Congress would double the H-1B fee to
$1,000 and use the $600 million collected over three years for science and
engineering scholarships and for retraining U.S. workers. Reps. David Dreier, a
Covina Republican, and Zoe Lofgren, a San Jose Democrat, have pushed this
provision.

Passage of this too will be important. Lifting H-1B caps is a stop-gap measure.
Producing more U.S. graduates in computer sciences is the long-term solution to
high-tech's labor shortage.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 7, 2000 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAWMAKERS VOTE TO DOUBLE FEES FOR H-1B VISAS MONEY WOULD HELP FUND EFFORTS TO
BOOST U.S. TECH WORKFORCE

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House of Representatives moved Friday to double the fees charged to
high-tech companies that apply for so-called H-1B visas.

The new, $1,000 fee would funnel about $200 million more over the next three
years into worker training and scholarship programs designed to increase the
American technology workforce.

The higher fee was a key part of bipartisan plans to boost the annual number of
visas to 195,000 for the next three years. Both houses of Congress earlier this
week overwhelmingly passed legislation to increase the visas, which allow
skilled foreigners to temporarily work in the United States for up to six years.
The allotment of 115,000 visas this year was used up by the end of March, six
months before the end of the fiscal year.

The high-tech industry, which has made expanding the visa program one of its top
priorities to solve what it says are unprecedented job vacancies, has had no
objections to the fee increase.

But in order to act quickly last week to move the visa expansion through
Congress after months of political wrangling, the fee increase had to be put
off.

Republicans and Democrats in the House of Representatives wanted to take
advantage of an overwhelming 96-1 vote Tuesday on the expansion of the H-1B visa
program in the Senate. The Senate legislation was rushed through the House on an
unusual voice vote Tuesday night.

But the Constitution prevents any legislation originating in the Senate from
raising fees or taxes, so that bill lacked the fee increase that was included in
versions that had been proposed by House members. Key Senate backers also
favored raising the fees, as does the White House.

"The president wanted a bill that would increase visas to near 200,000 with
increased resources for education and training, and this bill, while reflecting
compromises from everyone, clearly meets the test he's laid out," said Gene
Sperling, President Clinton's chief economic adviser. "It's extremely important
to us, though, that this bipartisan fee resolution go through." Rep. David
Dreier, R-Covina, one of the leading proponents of expanding the visa program,
solved the problem by introducing separate legislation in the House this week to
double the fee, with much of the money being funneled to worker training and
scholarships for students in science and engineering. The House unanimously
passed the bill Friday. The Senate is expected to pass it shortly.

"If we are going to have a work force that is going to be globally competitive,
we must have them trained and educated in the United States," Dreier said.
"Until that time, we have increased the H-1B visa level."

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who had co-sponsored one of the major visa
expansion bills with Dreier, said the fee increase was a crucial part of
expansion of the program because it helps get American workers into those
high-tech jobs.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 25, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY ORDERED BY CONGRESS CONFIRMS NEED FOR TECH VISAS INS, EDUCATION REFORMS
URGED

BYLINE: HEATHER FLEMING PHILLIPS, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An independent research group largely confirmed Tuesday what the high-tech
industry has long contended, that foreign workers are needed to help companies
fill vacant technical jobs. But it also called for broader changes in
immigration and education policy to fix the shortfall permanently.

Earlier this month, Congress voted to nearly double the number of visas for
foreign high-tech workers to meet Silicon Valley's demand for skilled computer
programmers and engineers.

In an inch-thick report issued Tuesday, the National Research Council, an arm of
the National Academy of Sciences that advises Congress on science and technology
issues, supported the idea of increasing the number of so-called H-1B visas but
said this approach solved only part of the problem. Changes are needed to make
it easier for foreign workers to stay in the United States permanently, and to
improve mathematics education in U.S. secondary schools to better prepare
students for high-tech jobs, the report said.

"There are many things that the nation as a whole and individual employers can
do themselves" to improve the worker shortage, said Herb Lin, study director and
senior scientist at the National Academy of Sciences.

Education and training are part of the solution, he said. Aware of the need for
better training for domestic high-tech workers, Congress also voted this month
to increase funding for scholarships and worker training by about $200 million
over the next three years. High-tech companies applying for H-1B visas will foot
the bill through a $1,000 fee, double the previous amount.

The report endorsed the use of H-1B visas, arguing that without them growth in
the information technology sector of the economy would slow. Yet it said no
sufficient data exists to justify any particular number of visas.

Short-term solution

"The report totally reinforces what we've done, and shows we're on the right
track," said Rep. David Dreir, R-Covina, one of the leading proponents of
expanding the visa program. The short-term solution is the H-1B visas, while the
long-term solution is education, he said.

Raising the limits on high-tech visas helped a lot of employers, but it is a
"Band-Aid" approach to the problem, said Sandra Boyd, chair of the American
Business for Legal Immigration coalition, which includes companies like Intel
Corp. and Sun Microsystems. Next year her group will focus on improving the
immigration system for skilled workers seeking permanent U.S. residence.

One of the main frustrations for many foreign workers on temporary visas is the
difficulty in getting a permanent visa to stay in the United States. The report
urged that the government reduce the time it takes to get a green card, which
grants permanent residency. "We should all be looking much more carefully at
reorganization of the INS (Immigration and Naturalization Service) and what
should be done to make it an agency to meet individual and employer needs," said
Boyd. "It's still very much a paper-based organization, and it's very slow," she
said.

INS bottleneck

The report, which was ordered by Congress in 1998, also stressed the need for
visas to be portable so workers can more easily switch jobs. The H-1B visas
allow skilled workers to work in the United States temporarily. The visa, which
is applied for by the company that wants to hire, lasts for three years and can
be renewed for another three.

Labor unions have argued that the influx of foreign workers allowed companies to
keep salaries artificially low because it was difficult for foreign workersto
move to another company. Congress made it easier for workers to switch jobs when
it approved the H-1B visa bill.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, blamed part of the need for H-1B visas on a
bottleneck at the INS in approving permanent visa applications. She said
sometimes it takes up to six years to process applications.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National Business News

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 19, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

HOW A VITAL TECH VISA EXPOSES WORKERS TO ABUSE AND SUBJECTS THE SYSTEM TO FRAUD
NEW LEGISLATION EASES WORKER SHORTAGE, BUT DOESN'T FIX UNDERLYING PROBLEMS

BYLINE: PETE CAREY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2853 words


When Congress last month nearly doubled the number of H-1B visas for temporary
foreign workers for the next three years, Silicon Valley's high-tech companies
cheered. But the lawmakers' quick fix did nothing totackle the fraud and abuse
that plague the program and little to prevent backlogs that leave workers and
companies in limbo.

Congress "didn't belly up to the board this time," said B. Lindsay Lowell of the
Georgetown University Institute for the Study of International Migration in
Washington, D.C., who recently completed a study of the H-1B, which has brought
in nearly 300,000 high-tech workers since 1992.

Instead of just increasing the number of temporary workers who "have limited
rights and can be deported at a whim," Lowell said, Congress should have
overhauled the system for giving H-1B workers green cards, which grant permanent
residency. "What they've done will exacerbate an existing problem."

Under pressure from the tech industry, Congress raised the limit on H-1B visas
to 195,000 per year from 115,000. But Mercury News reporting nationwide and in
India found that underlying vulnerabilities remain:

* Some U.S. labor contractors intimidate and underpay H-1B workers, yet the
Department of Labor lacks broad investigative powers. The Department of Labor
has recovered more than $1 million in back wages due more than 300 information
technology workers. Officials say they could do more if they could subpoena
business records and respond to leads beyond workers' complaints.

* H-1B visa fraud is not uncommon, ranging from academic degrees faked overseas
to phony job offers in the United States. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service has only 40 staffers at its service centers nationwide to investigate
fraud in H-1B and all other visa applications.

* INS processing of H-1B visas has repeatedly stalled under months-long
backlogs, causing uncertainty and disruption for workers, their families and
companies. By raising the cap, the INS will have tens of thousands more
applications to process, and officials say that, at best, the backlogs will run
into next year. Although the new legislation raises fees, that won't be enough
to upgrade systems, including a computer system so outmoded that the agency
literally lost count and issued an extra 20,000 visas by mistake last year.

* The H-1B visa program is no longer working the way it was supposed to, and the
green-card system is breaking down. The H-1B was created to help companies cope
with periodic shortages of labor by temporarily hiring experts from abroad for
specific jobs that couldn't be filled locally. In fact, many companies now rely
on the H-1B as a way to assure a pool of available, flexible, and often cheaper
workers. And workers use it as a circuitous route to a green card. "If we could
get the immigration service to function, a lot of pressure would come off the
H-1B program," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, a member of the House
immigration subcommittee and a leader of the drive to increase the H-1B visa
cap.

H-1Bs have become valley mainstay

With the H-1B, Congress in 1990 updated a previous temporary work visa by adding
a time limit and a cap on the number of visas issued each year, and no longer
requiring that visa holders promise not to try to stay permanently. Today,
industry likes the visa because it solves short-term hiring difficulties, and
foreign workers love it because of its promise of U.S. citizenship.

Proud of their contribution to the high-tech boom and the strength of the U.S.
economy, H-1B workers have become a fixture in many Silicon Valley workplaces.
Possibly 100,000 H-1B workers live in Northern California today, putting in the
long hours demanded by the high-tech industry's hectic pace, and even going on
to found or co-found major companies. About 420,000 H-1B workers are in the
United States now, as many as half of them computer specialists, according to
the Georgetown study.

Nearly half the top 100 companies that used the most H-1Bs in 1998 were based in
California and New Jersey, with 14 percent based in San Jose, according to
another Georgetown study. Four-fifths of the top companies were in the
information technology business.

Some of the most sought after H-1B workers are employed directly by large U.S.
companies, such as Silicon Valley's Cisco Systems and Oracle, which make them
permanent employees. Others are hired by recruiting firms -- middlemen -- that
bring in software specialists from India, China, South Africa and Europe, and
then hire them out as temps to dot-com start-ups or banks and otherbusinesses
that need workers for software design or back-office operations.

By raising the cap and eliminating some red tape in October, Congress thrilled
many immigration lawyers, industry leaders and foreign workers. "I'm very, very
happy about this bill," said Anu Gupta, a Fremont immigration lawyer. "It's not
going to solve all the problems overnight, but does go a long way."

The new legislation changes some requirements that workers and companies found
onerous. Many workers had
complained that H-1B regulations resulted in a kind of indentured servitude
in which workers were tied to their original employer by their visas and
green-card applications, unable to complain or leave for a better job because
their visas were at risk.

Under the new rules, an H-1B worker can move to a new job as soon as his or her
new employer applies for a new H-1B, rather than waiting months until the
application is approved. Green-card applicants in the final stages of the
process also can switch employers without having to start their application over
again. While they wait, they can apply for year-by-year extensions of their
H-1Bs when they expire at the end of six years, instead of having to leave the
country. And green-card processing should be faster because Congress also made
available more cards to the countries with the highest demand, currently India
and China.

Less red tape, but problems remain

The new rules should help companies like Intel Corp., which testified at a
hearing this year that it had spent $200,000 moving a valuable H-1B worker to
Malaysia after his visa expired.

They should also help H-1B workers like Asif Siddique, who spent much of this
year holed up in his apartment, not working, while he and his wife waited to
find out if his green card was approved or if he would have to leave the
country.

By enabling workers to switch employers without delay, the new rules respond to
complaints that H-1B workers are "indentured." But even if the new law is put
into effect quickly and efficiently, -- which previous revisions have not been
-- it is still the employer that sponsors the green cards, which can take three
to four years to obtain. And it will be the employer that files for the one-year
H-1B extensions in the meantime.

And even for workers who don't seek green cards, it is risky to change
employers: If a worker switches jobs as soon as his new employer files for a new
H-1B visa, he takes a chance that the new visa won't come through. If it
doesn't, the worker has to leave the country.

"The umbilical cord is still there," said Murali Krishna Devarakonda, a founder
of the Bay Area chapter of Immigrants Support Network, which lobbied Congress
for changes to the visa.

That means workers still can be intimidated by unscrupulous middlemen. The new
legislation fails to bolster enforcement of laws against exploiting and
underpaying foreign workers while they are here. An employment lawyer in San
Jose, Phil Griego, said he has received increasing numbers of complaints from
H-1B workers about employers for the past six months.

"You can't go after these employers because they are just mom-and-pop
operations, and they close up and disappear," he said.

Bruce Burns is a San Jose immigration lawyer who has received a couple of dozen
complaints from foreign temps in the past 18 months about middlemen that were
keeping up to half the worker's promised prevailing wage. The new legislation
will help H-1B workers switch jobs more freely, but some workers will still have
to contend with contracts that force them to pay $10,000 to $30,000 in
"liquidated damages" for leaving.

"To say you have to pay something equivalent to several months to a third of
your year's salary is unconscionable," Burns said.

Visa fraud merits little attention

Another problem is visa fraud, which starts abroad and in Silicon Valley. Phony
resumes are a common sight at U.S. consular offices overseas. According to the
State Department, one-fifth of the H-1B applications received in India last year
contained fraudulent information, this year, 11 percent.

In the United States, the INS tries to identify companies that use the H-1B in
illegal immigration scams or that charge H-1B workers exorbitant fees for
bringing them here and then leaving them stranded, with no jobs.

"I had one relative come; he's working in a pizza shop," said one East Coast
programmer and critic of the H-1B. "He came on an H-1B, with falsified papers."

But the ability of the INS to detect and prevent fraud is limited and won't
improve with the added workload that comes with the higher cap on H-1Bs. Visa
applications of all types exceed 4 million each year, and the INS requires its
workers to process a certain number of H-1Bs every day, said Jimmie Ward,
assistant
director for operations at the INS California center. When it comes to spotting
phony middlemen, he said, "It's like the finger in the dike. We try to identify
as much as we can."
Resume padding also occurs in the United States, effectively subverting the
intent of the H-1B program.

Three former executives of an Indian-run labor contractor said their boss
automatically added two years of experience and phony skills to the resumes of
its hundreds of H-1B employees as soon as they arrived in the United States in
order to charge companies an additional $30 to $40 an hour.

"Fortunately, they are very bright people and in general are capable of faking
it out in the field, and eventually they become very good workers," said one
former executive, who asked not to be identified. "But it is straight-out fraud
against the customers, and it gives the industry a bad name."

Ward, of the INS, said he has heard
of such cases but has not received
complaints.

New rules increase work for INS

Visa processing is also overloaded, and some INS officials are upset that more
work is coming their way. In addition to the near doubling in the number of
H-1Bs available for the next three years, another 30,000 to 50,000 applicants
who didn't get visas last year because the cap was reached in March will receive
them right away. Thousands of additional family members will come along each
year as will H-1B visas sought by universities and non-profit organizations,
which will no longer be counted within the cap.

Congress created a new account to pay for reducing the backlog, but has yet to
fund it. To pay for the increased workload, Congress raised the application fee
to $1,000 from $500 and allotted the INS and Labor Department each 4 percent of
the fee rather than the current 1.5 percent. But that additional $32.50 per
application in fees will barely pay salaries for more staff.

To handle the added work, the INS will also need to hire and train new
employees, add new offices and retool its computer systems. The fee increase "is
not going to help with the dramatic improvements in systems and technology that
are needed," said William Yates, head of the Immigration Service Division of the
INS.

An increase in green-card applications has also swamped the Labor Department. A
department official said that since 1998 it has been receiving tens of thousands
more applications for work certifications, the first step in getting an
employment-based green card.

INS and Labor Department backlogs aren't just a matter of paperwork. They take
an enormous toll on temporary workers and their families because
they prolong the uncertain wait for a green card.

Cry for help

"Please help me," wrote Benedict Teck-Choy Chong, 37, of San Jose in an
affidavit accompanying a lawsuit filed this year against the INS for delays in
processing green cards.

"There is a terrible uncertainty about holding on to a job in an economic
climate in which companies can crash overnight or be bought with unprofitable
divisions pruned away," he explained. Chong got his green card and dropped the
lawsuit.

The rising tide of visas, applications for green cards and other paperwork has
swamped the INS, especially during peak periods.

"We have files everywhere," said a staff member at one of the busiest of the
four INS centers during a heavy backlog earlier this year. "In trailers,
warehouses, in storage places, we have them in the aisles, four high, throughout
the whole building.

"I was going into the bathroom the other day, and there were files lined up on
the wall by the restroom. I opened the door, and I heard a girl say to another,
'Hey, Mildred, here's that box from Portland we were looking for.' "

The INS service center in Laguna Niguel at times this year was the most
overworked in the country. With the increased cap, "backlogs are going to build
up immediately," Ward said. "Everyone's going to be complaining again."

While the H-1B has brought talented, educated people to Silicon Valley, its
impact on American and permanent-resident computer programmers is a contentious
issue.

Cutting corners

Labor officials say some companies use the H-1B, a specialty worker visa, to
bring in run-of-the-mill programmers who will work for less than a fair wage.

"Most of them have less than a master's degree," said Peggy Taylor, legislative
director of the AFL-CIO office in Washington, D.C., citing an INS survey. "Well,
what are you using these visas for?"

Many jobs don't require the advanced skills of a computer science graduate,
several studies have found.

Some companies and universities are trying to help train workers locally for
such jobs. Cisco Systems is underwriting a series of two-year courses in
networking, now taught at 4,000 schools in 80 countries. George Mason University
in Virginia offers courses to non-computer science students for jobs in
information technology.

"You don't want your help desk being manned by a computer science graduate,"
said William Aspray, executive director of the Computing Research Association.

Retraining for older high-tech workers could also be a way to fill some of these
and more advanced programming jobs. Retraining is fundamental to the industry,
but most companies would rather hire up-to-date temps from abroad than take on
the considerable expense of retraining, programmers say.

"Half of what you know becomes obsolete every 36 months in a technology market,"
said Dominique Black, head of a personnel placement firm in Redwood City. "That
means you need to be significantly retraining about 20 percent of your time."

Some high-tech employers say they don't see many older unemployed American
programmers looking for permanent jobs.

"In Silicon Valley, anyone out there who's not on a visa -- hardware engineers,
programmers -- is now going toward contract work and wants $150-plus an hour,"
said Margo Sanders earlier this year when she was corporate staffing manager for
3Com Corp. in Santa Clara. The H-1B engineer wants to become a permanent
employee, she said.

But getting H-1B workers green cards is a big problem that will continue despite
the new legislation.

"I don't think they seriously addressed the fact there's a real imbalance
between the number of people they are letting
in on H-1B visas and the number of
people who are able to get green cards," said Carl Shusterman, a Los Angeles
immigration lawyer.

If the past is a guide, at least half the H-1B workers will apply for green
cards, some of them with spouses. That could burden the system with 160,000
green card requests each year, said Georgetown's Lowell. But the annual limit of
green cards available for temporary workers of all kinds -- not just H-1Bs --
and their families, is just 140,000.

Some analysts say the H-1B needs to be redesigned into two kinds of work visas:
one a short-term permit for specific projects and another that would lead
directly to a green card in two or three years.

During the lobbying for the current legislation, high-tech companies set aside
their desire for green-card reform for the more pragmatic goal of anincrease in
H-1Bs.

"We'd love to see the green-card process streamlined," said Mary Dee Beall,
Hewlett-Packard's official in Washington, D.C., in charge of H-1B matters.
"Since HP's practice in hiring foreign workers is for them to become permanent
residents, it would be manna from heaven
if that would happen. But that would
be a major reform of the immigrat-
ion process."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
RISING LIMITS[Chart not in database]
Source: Immigration and  Naturalization Service

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Series

NOTES: Mercury News Special Report: The H-1B Boom
See related stories : Pages 1A and 15A-16A

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2000

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 11/22/00, pg. 2A) A front-page
photo caption accompanying an article about H-1B visas Sunday incorrectly
described a line of people waiting to apply for visas at the U.S. Consulate
General in Chennai, India. All but one of the women pictured were applying for
H-1B visas.

GRAPHIC: Photos (4), Chart;
PHOTO: MERI SIMON -- MERCURY NEWS
Legislation raising the cap on H-1B visas will increase the workload at the INS
center in California and across the country.
[001119 FR 1A]
PHOTO: MERI SIMON -- MERCURY NEWS
Several H-1B workers from the Philippines who share a crowded apartment in
Dublin watch TV. The group often opens its home to other H-1B workers who need a
place to stay.
[001119 FR 14A]
PHOTO: MERI SIMON -- MERCURY NEWS
Murthy Avvari, vice president of Ascendsoft, a software services company based
in Fremont, takes Shishir Jain, left, to a corporate apartment in Fremont. The
company will put up Jain, an H-1B worker from India, in the apartment until he
finds his own place.
[001119 FR 14A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
People come from all over southern India to apply for H-1B visas at the U.S.
Consulate General in Chennai.
[001119 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 19, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MIDDLEMEN THRIVING IN LUCRATIVE INDUSTRY WHILE FOREIGN WORKERS COMPLAIN OF ABUSE

BYLINE: SARAH LUBMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2743 words


The high-tech industry's voracious demand for workers has spawned a lucrative
new middleman industry, complete with its own hierarchy, opportunity and abuse.

The creation of such an industry was hardly the aim of the H-1B. But by now,
among the visa's biggest users are the hundreds of contractors, ranging from
large public companies to tiny job shops, that obtain visas and find work for
foreign engineers.

While many middlemen have good reputations, others, often smaller ones, treat
their foreign workers as cheap commodities and have become known derisively as
"body shops." Such shops, whose names are circulated among workers on e-mailed
blacklists, are reviled for illegally underpaying workers, holding their
passports, and intimidating them with contracts that demand tens of thousands of
dollars if they leave for another employer too soon.

These contractors say they are defending themselves against H-1B workers who
otherwise want to jump ship for better opportunities. But the foreign workers
quickly see that middlemen often make promises they don't keep.

Shailesh Grover, 31, who is now director of intranet services at Next Card Inc.
in San Francisco, was promised a $42,000 annual salary by a labor contractor who
then tried to pay him just half. Grover came to California in 1996 as an H-1B
worker, sponsored by Ravel Software Inc., a now-bankrupt contractor. Ravel
brought Grover here and put him up in a two-room apartment with six other H-1B
workers.

But Ravel didn't have a specific job for Grover, or for many of its other H-1B
engineers. It shopped them to other placement firms, which in turn farmed them
out to large clients.

Along the way, each firm would get a commission, which was added on to the
hourly rate charged to companies.

Ravel documents show that it charged commissions of as much as 70 percent over
the base cost it paid for a
programmer. While that's how job contractors make their money, workers
often resent it.

Worse yet, while Grover waited for work, Ravel tried to pay him half of their
agreed upon rate. More aggressive than many other workers, Grover refused to
accept that. He demanded -- and received -- his full salary, and urged others to
do the same. Ravel Chairman Bhutendra Patel said he wasn't aware of people being
underpaid.

"It's worse than a pimp situation," Grover said. "It's embarrassing sitting in a
room, your resume is going from one body shop to the next, and you don't know
until the 10th interview who the end client is."

Visas belong to job, not worker

The H-1B visa opens the door for middlemen. That's because, like all temporary
work visas, it belongs to the job and only secondarily to the worker. Some
workers are employed directly by major corporations. But many are brought
over and hired as full-time employees
of middlemen.

The H-1B contracting industry blossomed in the 1990s. The U.S. computer industry
was increasingly shifting to using temporary staff and outside contractors. At
the same time, qualified engineers were emerging from other countries,
especially India, which was rapidly developing its software technology sector.
While some middlemen specialize in Chinese and Russian H-1B workers, about 75
percent of H-1B programmers and systems analysts are from India, according to a
recent Congressional Research Service study.

A recent study by Georgetown University found that based on surnames, the
"likely ethnicity" of the chief executives of nearly two-thirds of the top 100
companies that hired H-1B workers in 1998 was South Asian: Indian and Pakistani.

For the H-1B job contractor, the pipeline starts overseas, where middlemen "shop
for bodies" by advertising in newspapers and on billboards. The contractor
applies for the H-1B visa in the name of a specific worker for a job requiring
certain skills. Usually, the contractor pays for the visa application,
processing fees and the cost of transportation to the United States, and some
provide initial housing in the United States. Others charge their H-1B workers
rent for lodging in crowded apartments and for daily transportation to and from
the contractor's office.

A worker is hired as a full-time employee of the middleman, which generally pays
salary and benefits. Once here, he is assigned quickly to the specific job the
middleman had contracted to fill, from programming for a high-tech client
to data processing for a bank.

Sometimes he becomes part of a roving army of foreign temps, his life controlled
by the middleman. The contractor may send him to any state for any length of
time, on demand for jobs ranging from systems integration to data entry. When a
given project ends, the "bodies" return to the body shop, which places them with
the next client. If a worker wants to hire on with a different company -- for
example, a client that offers a better job -- that new employer needs to apply
for a new H-1B visa.

Some contracting firms collect standard headhunting fees from their corporate
clients. Mostly, though, a middleman makes money by charging corporate clients
an hourly rate for its workers and then paying the workers much less. Court
documents show that middlemen charge $70 an hour for an H-1B programmer or
systems analyst with four to five years of experience. In Silicon Valley, people
in the industry say it can range from $90 to more than $100 an hour. Of that,
the worker typically is paid based on an annual salary of $60,000 to $70,000 --
a rate that works out to about $35 an hour.

Given that kind of return and the assurance of steady demand for the foreseeable
future, the number of middlemen has grown rapidly. "Anyone in this industry has
seen this is
a very lucrative industry," said Sanjeev Sahani, who used to work at an Indian
placement agency and now works at
Oracle as a senior product manager.
"It has no entry values; I can set up a shop tomorrow."

Contractors are supposed to have jobs waiting for their H-1B workers, and
workers are supposed to be continuously employed by a client of the middleman.
Often, though, that's not the way it works.

Some contractors obtain H-1Bs for workers by claiming to be a final employer,
rather than the middlemen they really are. Others have an initial job for their
worker, but when it ends, keep him waiting for another assignment -- a practice
known as "benching," which the Immigration and Naturalization Service
discourages.

The Mercury News spoke with more than a dozen engineers and programmers across
the country on H-1B visas who'd received less pay than their contract had stated
while benched or while working full time. Anu Gupta, an immigrationattorney in
Fremont, said she receives two to three calls a week from workers complaining of
exploitation. The Mercury News also interviewed six programmers who have fought
attempts by job shops to collect as much as $75,000 in compensation for leaving.
Most didn't want to be publicly identified for fear their employers would
retaliate and jeopardize their efforts to become permanent U.S. residents.

The Department of Labor is well aware of problems in the growing middleman
industry. Complaints from H-1B workers about wages have increased, totaling 103
in the first eight months of fiscal 2000, compared with about 50 a year in
recent years.

The department has closed 75 cases in the high tech industry, finding a total of
$1 million in back wages due to 326 high-tech workers. A 1996 audit by the
department's inspector general found that 19 percent of H-1B employers were
paying less than they had promised.

To determine the current extent of misrepresentation of wages by middlemen, the
INS in July began a study of a random sampling of H-1B applications.

But naivete and fear leave foreign workers reluctant to challenge their
employers, and the labor department can't investigate unless people complain,
said John Fraser, deputy administrator of the department's wage and hour
division. "It's a considerable concern to us."

Tech workers from the Indian subcontinent who haven't had any problems with
their employers tend to regard reports of body shop abuses as exaggerated, and
are more concerned about the difficulty of getting permanent residency in the
United States.

"If you ask a thousand people, maybe you'll find 10 people who were treated that
way," said Shailesh Gala, a senior software engineer with CDI Corp. in New
Jersey who came to the country on an H-1B visa and worked for a year at a
job-contracting firm.

Some job contractors say benching happens mainly because tech skills wax and
wane with the market: Y2K repair skills were urgently needed, for example, but
are now passe. Now, it's Java and Web skills that are hot. Some recruiters on
the receiving end of contract tech labor marketing say the programmers may not
measure up in other ways.

"Our experience was that people were technically competent, all right, but not
experienced in the ways of U.S. business or any business to be able to go in,
meet with users and design a solution," said Gary Partridge, president of
Partridge & Associates, a Glendale firm that places information-technology temps
with Fortune 1000 companies.

To Rahul Roy, president and chief executive officer of MirrorPlus Technologies,
a Sunnyvale software startup, it's all relative. "People who come here are a
million times better off than in India," he said.

Even programmers who have had good experiences, though, describe a general
pattern: Indian tech workers come to the United States thrilled to make far more
than they could ever hope to earn at home. But they quickly realize how big a
cut the middleman is taking. "Once you've spent a certain number of years in the
U.S. your needs change, you realize you're worth three times more," said one
programmer who came here in 1998 and declined to be named.

Restrictions stall careers

Middlemen often include restrictive clauses in contracts to keep H-1B tech
workers from seeking better-paying jobs. One software engineer said his contract
required him to pay 30 percent of his annual salary if he joined a client within
six months of leaving his employer.

In California, such restrictions often fly in the face of state labor law and
don't stand up in court. Robert Merges, a University of California-Berkeley law
professor who teaches courses on employee mobility, said middlemen may throw
restrictions in anyway to intimidate workers into staying.

"That could explain why consulting companies put it in standard agreements with
people working on foreign-worker visas who aren't as sophisticated, don't know
it's a useless piece of verbiage and may actually believe it," he said.

Other middlemen have learned that contracts that demand large payments from
workers who leave before a certain period of time are easier to defend in court
if they're claimed as compensation for "liquidated damages."

That's what happened with Kavyananda Sidbatte. A San Jose software-trainingand
consulting company named Software Technology Group Inc., or STG, offered him a
job in March 1997 and asked for his passport and original degree certificate for
visa processing. Two months later, STG told Sidbatte that his visa had come
through and that he would be traveling to San Jose.

When Sidbatte arrived in New Delhi, ready to fly to the United States, STG
presented him -- for the first time -- with an employment agreement that said he
would pay $25,000 to STG in liquidated damages if he left the firm before two
years. Sidbatte had already quit his prior job and was 2,000 miles from his
Bangalore home. So he signed, although he later said he hadn't really understood
the implications of the contract. Only after he signed were his passport and
degree returned. Six days later, he flew to San Jose.

Two years later, the contract he had signed landed him in a breach-of-contract
lawsuit with STG. Sidbatte had been hired at a base salary of $42,000 and left
STG after 13 months to work for a client, who gave him a $20,000 raise.

STG sued Sidbatte and another H-1B worker in a similar situation, Srinivas
Gaddam, for $25,000 each plus legal costs. During the trial, STG justified the
damages with rupee-denominated receipts for Indian newspaper advertisements,
hotel bills and travel expenses from three 1997 recruiting trips, although
Gaddam and Sidbatte were among hundreds of people interviewed.

CEO Yogesh Vaidya said in a deposition that he had nothing to do with preparing
the original offer letters that hadn't mentioned liquidated damages.

In the end, the company won: in January of this year, the jury sided with STG.
The two engineers recently reached a compromise with STG to pay back 60 percent
of the damages.

In a telephone interview later, Vaidya said STG held passports and diplomas to
prevent applicants from applying for another visa through a different employer.

Other companies have, in fact, lost money after prospective hires shopped around
for duplicate H-1B visas.

"I burned my fingers on that," said Murthy Avvari, vice president of Ascendsoft,
a medium-sized software projects consultant that uses H-1B workers in Fremont.
Ascendsoft doesn't restrict its workers' freedom although up to half its
prospective H-1B hires fail to show, Avvari said. Ascendsoft has applied for
H-1B visas and waited months for them to come through, only to discover that
candidates had found other jobs by applying through a different company that
used a faster visa-processing center on the East Coast. "I ended up wasting my
time, my attorney money."

When restrictive clauses fail to keep programmers from straying, job contractors
may seek compensation elsewhere. If a worker is hired by another recruiter or a
high-tech company, it is a common job-shop tactic to charge a commission
of tens of thousands of dollars in
"hiring fees."

"It eats up any placement fee we'd get," said Elise Clark, president of
Lloyd-Ritter Consulting in Mountain View, a unit of Personnel Group of America.
"We've been caught like that a few times. That was a red flag: Be careful when
you work with these agencies, and find out what kind of contract the program-
mers are on."

Middlemen legally are required to pay workers on the bench at the prevailing
wage rate even while they are waiting for work. And many do.

But many others don't. In such cases, tech workers on the bench typically
receive anywhere from half-pay to weekly stipends of $150 for months. In the
worst cases, a worker receives nothing at all. One 24-year-old Punjabi
programmer in New Jersey said he paid $400 to sleep on his employer's apartment
floor for two months, was never paid or placed on a project and never even saw
an office. The telephone at the New Jersey job shop for which he worked has been
disconnected.

The practice of benching contract programmers on half-pay or a small weekly
stipend for weeks or months at a time
is so common that many Indian tech workers know of someone, either directly or
through friends and acquaintances, who has gone through it.

Puneet Dikshit, 32, came from Delhi to California in 1994, with a master's
degree in computer science, two years of work experience and faith in his new
employer. What he didn't turn out to have was a specific job.

For the next three months, he waited for an assignment and received half the
$145 average daily salary he had been promised.

Even after he started working, he received only $60 to $70 a day for several
weeks.

"They called it some sort of a transition, and there was ignorance on my part
about the law," he said.

After a few months, he wised up. He quit to join another Indian-run job
contractor despite what he characterizes as "harassment" to stay on from the
middleman company that hired him, ICIM International Inc.

The chief executive of U.S. operations for ICIM at the time was Arun Tolani, who
said he doesn't remember the case and never paid a transitional salary, and that
the company has always complied with the law. (ICIM changed its name this year
to Zensar Technologies Inc.)

Dikshit stayed with his new employer until this year, when his visa ran out. Now
he lives with his family in Alberta, Canada. Under the new legislation, he
probably could have stayed.

CHART: WES KILLINGBECK - MERCURY NEWS
GROWING PROBLEMS
[Chart not in database]
Source: Dept. of Labor

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Series

NOTES: Mercury News Special Report: The H-1B Boom
See related stories : Pages 1A and 15A-16A
Mercury News is publishing this report in cooperation with Businessworld: a
leading New Delhi-based weekly magazine on the New Economy in India
Mercury News staff writer Pete Carey contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: MERI SIMON -- MERCURY NEWS
In January, a jury ruled in favor of Software Technology Group of San Jose,
which sued two former H-1B workers. In a deposition, CEO Yogesh Vaidya had
denied involvement in the preparation of offer letters that did not state STG
could sue for "liquidated damages" involving breach of contract.
[001119 FR 16A]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 20, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PREDATORY CULTURE OF FRAUD, ABUSE EMERGING IN INDIA DESPERATION AMONG WORKERS
RISING WITH VISA DEMAND

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3693 words

DATELINE: CHENNAI, India


They come from cities and villages all over southern India, arriving in the
pre-dawn darkness to find a place in line on the sidewalk. They wait quietly,
snoozing in the humidity or eating from little packets of rice and paper cups of
homemade yogurt. Every now and then, fidgeting, and just to make sure, they
re-check their papers and passports.

By mid-morning, when the side door to the U.S. Consulate General finally opens,
there are several hundred people in line, and sometimes as many as 2,000. Many
have come to apply for an H-1B visa, the category that allows certain specialty
workers to live in the United States for as long as six years at a time. H-1B
applicants must be sponsored by U.S. companies, and virtually all the H-1B visas
given to Indians are for positions in high tech.

There's an unmistakable desperation among those in line, a desperation due in
part to a limit on the number of H-1B visas available each year. Regardless of
his or her place in line, everyone's application will get reviewed and
processed, but still, nobody wants to risk getting squeezed by the visa cap. For
many Indians, an H-1B holds the promise of a lifetime of savings in exchange for
a few years of work in the United States.

On the face of it, this exchange seems fair enough: U.S. tech firms get a steady
supply of qualified Indian engineers and programmers, while the workers get
prime-time salaries, cutting-edge experience and First World comforts.

In October, Congress raised the limit on the number of H-1Bs available each year
to 195,000 for the next three years. It also changed some requirements and
raised some fees to help the Immigration and Naturalization Service speed up
processing and handle a huge backlog of applications. But the new legislation
failed to tackle abuse in the middleman industry, which has grown with every
expansion of the H-1B program.

That abuse in the United States has its counterpart in India, where the appetite
for H-1B visas has spawned a predatory culture of fraud and forgery that labor,
police and diplomatic officials are only beginning to address. In some cases,
unscrupulous employment consultants take advantage of well-meaning visa
applicants. In other cases, unqualified applicants are funneled into the United
States by middlemen who help them fake academic degrees and pad their resumes in
order to win H-1B visas. The U.S. State Department estimates thatone-fifth of
the H-1B applications it received in India last year contained false
information.

Sunil Raj is one of those who succumbed to the frenzy. He said he was duped by
two New Delhi firms into spending his life's savings of $6,000 -- an enormous
sum here, equivalent to a dozen years of pay for the average Indian -- for a
training course, an H-1B visa and a guaranteed software job in the United
States.

Raj, 30, quit his job as a marine engineer and got a little bit of training as a
programmer. His H-1B visa came through, but the "guaranteed" job turned out to
be a fiction. Raj decided to go to the United States anyway, leaving his
pregnant wife behind in Mumbai, formerly Bombay. He camped out with a string of
relatives in four states, missed the birth of his daughter, and spent 11 months
out of work. He applied at two dozen companies, he said, but they all needed
immediate help. None were willing to wait three or four months for the transfer
of his visa from his previous company, a delay that should ease under new
legislation passed by Congress in October.

Worker left bereft

Finally, broke and broken, Raj returned to India.

"I have lost a year of my life, but what's worse is that I've lost hope," he
said. "I won't ever try to go back to America, not after this experience."

Raj's application was largely legitimate, although he should have had a real job
waiting for him stateside. He was simply too smitten, he said, with his own
dreams and "the management sweet talk."

"There are lots of unscrupulous guys out there," said T. Venkateswarajan, the
head of Track International, a small but reputable recruiting firm in New Delhi.
For 300,000 rupees ($7,000), he said, unscrupulous firms will obtain an H-1B
using false documents. "Everybody knows it's a racket, but it happens
everywhere. Every tech worker in India wants the U.S., by far. It's jobs in the
U.S. that are driving this whole thing."

Many of those jobs in the United States are a perfect fit for India's
well-educated, English-speaking, technically inclined workforce.

And the vast majority of H-1B workers are legitimate. Some have attended
graduate school in the United States, and many are hired directly by major U.S.
companies for jobs requiring advanced skills. Indeed, with so many top-flight
workers heading to the United States, some experts in India worry that India
might be heading for a high-tech "brain drain."

But U.S. consular officials said last year that 21 percent of H-1B applications
it received contained some kind of fraudulent information -- forged college
degrees, doctored resumes, phony work experience or phantom job offers. That
figure more recently dropped to 11 percent, with an additional 3 percent of
applications categorized as "suspect."

"It's easy enough to go out and buy a whole package of phony documents off the
street here, and, quite frankly, some of them look pretty good," said Clyde
Jones, chief of consular services in Chennai (formerly Madras), the busiest of
the four consular offices in India. "Each city has its own ghetto where you can
get these things."

Experts say the visa fraud is most rampant in southern India, which is the
hotbed of the country's high-tech boom. Hundreds of Indian and multinational
computer companies have headquarters in the south, particularly in the cities of
Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad -- which advertises itself as "Cyberabad."

H-1B applications from the region are processed at the U.S. Consulate General in
Chennai, which issues more H-1Bs than any other consulate in the world -- about
30,000 last year out of the worldwide total of 115,000. Indian nationals
received 44 percent of all H-1Bs issued worldwide last year, virtually all of
them for high-tech jobs.

Most of the checking of the documents in H-1B applications is done at INS
offices in the United States, although consular operations like Chennai, which
has a three-person anti-fraud unit, also can sniff out fake degrees or doctored
resumes, and then recommend further INS scrutiny.

The consular staff in Chennai, which handles as many as 1,000 applicants a day,
consists of just five American supervisors and 15 Indian staffers. They work
amid a sea of laundry tubs that are stacked on the floor, in hallways, ondesks
and atop filing cabinets -- green tubs for H-1Bs, red for previously rejected
applications, teal for visas that don't require personal interviews, blue tubs
for everything else.

Within the realm of visa fraud, there are two basic scenarios: either the visa
applicant tries to cheat by falsifying his application, or the applicant himself
is cheated by an unscrupulous training school or an employment consultant known
derisively as a "body shop."

Most individual applicants are hardly sophisticated enough to fake their way
into landing an H-1B on their own, in part because companies -- not individuals
-- must initiate the visa application. To that end, there is now a whole
complement of fraudulent training courses, visa "facilitators," interview
coaches, document forgers and phony shell companies that prey on ambitious young
Indians dreaming of tech jobs in the United States.

Here's how the scheme works at its most basic:

A shady recruiter in India takes several thousand dollars from Mr. Unqualified
Dreamer to provide him with some hurry-up computer training and an H-1B visa. A
fake degree and a phony resume are thrown together, and then the recruiter pays
a shell company in the United States to offer the applicant a job as, say, a
computer systems analyst.

The U.S. company has been set up to provide the illusion of a real employer at
the other end of the visa pipeline. Such companies are often run by Indians
living legitimately in the United States on H-1Bs or green cards. The offer
letter is written on the shell company's letterhead, and if the offer appears
genuine to an INS examiner in the United States, then the application probably
will be approved.

There has been an explosion of computer-training schools all over India,
thousands of them, in big cities and small towns, with sexy names like EduSoft,
TechnoCampus or the Software Finishing School. In reality, many of these
"schools" consist of little more than a sweltering office, a few dusty
computers, some photocopied training manuals and an ill-prepared instructor.

Unregulated by state or local governments, the schools purport to give quick and
cutting-edge training in the latest computer skills. And so strong is the urge
to become computer-savvy and visa-eligible that many Indians can't see the fraud
for the stars in their eyes.

A few standard-bearers

"In Hyderabad, particularly, there are lots of fly-by-night operations coming
into training because they see big bucks," said Sudip Banerjee, chief executive
for operations at Indian software firm Wipro. Wipro hires hundreds of tech
workers each month, and obtains H-1Bs for those who are sent to work in the
United States for Wipro clients. "We're very careful about who we take, because
there just aren't any standards for anyone claiming to be a 'training school.' "

For a time, training in the programming language COBOL was all the rage at the
pop-up schools. Then it was C++, then ERP, then SAP -- all the acronyms that
correspond to the latest and hottest skills being demanded by tech firms in the
Silicon Valley and elsewhere.

The schools boldly tout their courses with newspaper advertisements that feature
the Statue of Liberty or roadside banners festooned with billowing American
flags. The ads use seductive words such as "passport," "careers" and "fortune."

But training courses are now promising much more than just training: More and
more there are the additional guarantees of both an H-1B visa and, say, a
$50,000-a-year software job in the United States. All too often, however, the
training turns out to be haphazard, the visas don't come through or the jobs
don't actually exist.

A new movie in India captures the frenzy -- and questions the wisdom -- of the
headlong rush by young Indians toward jobs in the United States. The film is
called "Dollar Dreams."

"My case is dollar dreams, yes, but I'm not blaming the U.S., I'm blaming the
middlemen here in India who take advantage of us," said Raj, the Mumbai man who
says he was victimized by a training-school con in New Delhi.

Stars in their eyes

Raj emptied his bank account of $6,000 for a training course arranged by a
company called ProEnhance. Another Delhi-area company, FCS Software Solutions,
was to provide the actual training, which was to be followed by a job at the New
Jersey branch of a Milpitas company called Ace Technologies.

The initial training was incomplete, Raj says, and he eventually had to file a
police complaint just to get the company to start working on his visa
application. Even though the visa did come through, there was no job waiting --
not in New Jersey, not in Milpitas, not anywhere.

But Raj headed overseas anyway, paying his own way and hoping to catch on with
some other computer firm stateside. He traveled throughout the East and Midwest
looking for work, but nothing materialized. He finally retreated back to India
last summer.

Raj isn't entirely defeated. He and his lawyer are continuing to press a case in
Consumer Court against ProEnhance and FCS, although ProEnhance is already out of
business, and FCS denies any complicity in the case. The chief executive officer
of FCS says his firm has no relationship whatsoever with Ace Technologies, the
New Jersey company that was supposed to supply Raj with the job.

"We're totally separate companies," FCS owner Dalip Sharma told the Mercury News
in an interview at the company's headquarters in Noida, a New Delhi suburb.
"There's no business relationship there at all."

But FCS's own corporate literature says it's a wholly owned subsidiary of Ace
Technologies and, further, that it acts as "the arm for Ace Technologies for
filling their demands for software professionals . . . in the U.S."

And one other thing: Sharma and the owner of Ace Technologies are brothers.

Chandra Shaiker of Ace Technologies said his brother's company is independent
and any company literature to the contrary is wrong. He said Ace Technologies
has no relationship with ProEnhance. "We have heard the name, but we have not
ever dealt with that company."

Many job contractors are genuine enterprises that find qualified Indian techies
to work on a contractual basis at companies in the United States.

And most H-1B applicants know precisely how the visa system works, how the shady
consultants operate and how the risks can stack up against them in the United
States. In their desperation to get overseas, most applicants readily sign
restrictive contracts that bind them to consultants.

But questionable linkages like that of ProEnhance, FCS and Ace Technologies are
not uncommon in the H-1B process. Some of them combine shady training courses
with the unscrupulous "body shops" that either defraud Indian workers outright
or falsify documents to procure H-1B visas for unqualified applicants who are
willing to buy their way to a visa.

Bulking up resumes

The whole process of fraud typically starts with resume falsification,
especially the embellishment of work experience. If a job applicant doesn't have
the right skills for a job opening in the United States, many consultants are
quick to add some fictional torque to an underpowered resume.

When Ashish Singh was looking for a U.S. tech job, three separate recruiting
firms in India pressured him to doctor his resume. Specifically, they wanted him
to delete his master's degree and replace it with two or three years of
non-existent software experience.

"I didn't like that," said Singh, 26, now a software engineer at Mirror Plus
Technologies in Sunnyvale. Outraged and offended, he refused to go along with
the demands. "I was proud of getting my MBA. It was on my resume in bold."

Degree forgeries are another large part of visa fraud. Small rings of forgers
are busted now and again, but Indian police and consumer agencies have been
unable to control the abuses.

Forgeries were so out of control in southern India a few years ago that the
Chennai consulate had to appeal to Indian software firms and trade associations
for help. What they came up with was code-named Project Olive, for Online
Information Verification Engine -- a database of legitimate graduates from
colleges in the city of Hyderabad and the tech-crazy southern state of Andhra
Pradesh.

Jones, the Chennai consular chief, credits Project Olive and his anti-fraud unit
with the sharp reduction in visa fraud over the past year.

Osmania University, with about 250,000 students at its numerous branches
throughout Andhra Pradesh, became a favorite victim of the forgers. Fake Osmania
degrees were found easily enough by whispering to a few well-connected
stall-keepers at the sprawling Laad Bazaar in Hyderabad. They were so widely
copied and circulated that the school's legitimate graduates were virtually
blacklisted and routinely had their visa applications delayed or denied.

Sudip Banerjee, the operations chief at Wipro, helped develop Project Olive.

"We ranked universities on their credibility," Banerjee said, "and when you
would see Osmania in someone's file, a red flag would go up."

Osmania sent the names of all its tech and engineering graduates to the Project
Olive database, the better for the consulate to be able to verify degrees. And
the school also developed new diplomas.

"We knew there was a big problem with people forging our diplomas," said D.C.
Reddy, the vice chancellor at Osmania. "The diplomas were printed on normal
paper, cheap paper. But we worked with the police to take timely measures, and
the diplomas now have watermarks, holograms and other security features."

If diplomas and resumes can be faked, so, too, can job offers.

Advice: Keep tabs

An H-1B applicant might have a legitimate college degree and the required two
years of appropriate high-tech experience. But the third part of the document
equation is a job offer from a U.S. employer.

In about half the cases of H-1B fraud in India, U.S. officials say, the offer
letter is phony.

Experts say the INS is simply too understaffed to check to see if every job
offer is real. And the Department of Labor isn't authorized to investigate job
offers, only working conditions after a job has begun.

"If it was up to me, I'd give the Labor Department more authority to check on
the body-shoppers and whether the jobs really exist," said Jones, the Chennai
consular chief.

Jones said most of the bigger companies have a good track record with his
office. Indeed, applicants from the largest tech firms usually don't have to
personally appear at the consulate as part of an "express visa" program. Jones
said 235 companies are on the express visa fast track.

"I'm not worried about Microsoft and Cisco or the other big companies," said
Jones. "It's the start-up companies that may or may not exist: Somebody's got a
basement and a computer, and they're hiring 25 people as 'computer consultants.'
"

[RELATED STORY]
SCHOOL FLED WITH VICTIMS' LIFE SAVINGS
The case of Adiptron, a now-defunct school in Bangalore, has become one of the
most notorious examples of training-school fraud in India. Two years ago the
owner apparently took large tuition fees -- in cash -- from dozens of
unsuspecting students, then one night, under cover of darkness, moved out all
the computer equipment and fled to Australia. The school's space -- a large,
dirty-windowed loft above a shoe store -- is now shared by an attorney's office
and a yoga studio.

"All walks of people have been victimized, even the police commissioner's son,"
said B.L. Prakash, 34, one of several former Adiptron students who are suing the
company and its fugitive owner.

"He promised to provide us placement in the U.S. with a visa, but one night he
just totally disappeared," said Y.S.R. Anjaneyulu, 38, another ex-Adiptron
student who now assembles circuit boards in a rented room outside Bangalore. "I
have lost all my savings, but I still want to go to the U.S. to flourish my
income."

Anjaneyulu said it took him seven years as a programmer to save the $1,200 in
Adiptron tuition fees. But despite having been burned, he has enrolled in yet
another computer-training course, all the better to land that fantasy job
overseas and "flourish his income" enough to save dowry payments for his two
daughters, aged 10 and 12.

"That is my money problem now," he said. "This time I only pay after getting the
H-1B. Until then, not one rupee!"

-- Mark McDonald
[RELATED STORY]
MANY WORKERS IN INDIA BELIEVE VISA WILL LEAD THEM TO WEALTH, HAPPINESS
BY MARK MCDONALD, Mercury News
BANGALORE, India
"You see, I must get to America. Chinese, Russians, Indians -- we're all going
there. It's very clear to me. Where's the gold? In the U.S.A."

This is Y.S.R. Anjaneyulu, 38, a freelance circuit-board assembler and the
father of two young daughters. He has recently enrolled in a computer-training
school in Bangalore, this despite the fact that the owner of his previous school
closed up shop in the middle of the night and made off with Anjaneyulu's life
savings.

Why this incredible zeal, this frenzy to get to the United States? Why the
desperate attempts by Indians to land an H-1B visa?

Obviously, the H-1B provides entree to the United States where, many Indians
believe, high-paying high-tech jobs wait glittering, like so many grains of
silicon. In this sense, the H-1B is seen as an automatic passport to success.

Many Indians also believe that the H-1B is a steppingstone to a green card and
permanent-resident status.

"But that's not true," says Clyde Jones, head of consular services at the U.S.
Consulate General in Chennai. "An H-1B is not a hop, skip and a jump to a green
card."

The H-1B is also regarded as a status symbol in India. Men placing matrimonial
ads in Indian newspapers -- in addition to their usual claims of being handsome,
well-born and fair-complexioned -- also boast that they're H-1B holders.
Similarly, an unmarried woman looking for a husband often won't have to pay a
dowry if she has an H-1B.

The catch-phrase "dollar dreams" has become part of the latest buzz in
techno-urban India.

It comes from the title of a newly released movie that looks at a group of six
yuppies from Hyderabad who are trying to decide whether to take jobs overseas.

"Everyone wants to go to the United States, so I thought I'd use that as a
theme," says director Sekhar Kammula.

Some of the friends in "Dollar Dreams" think that heading abroad is tantamount
to forsaking their families and their culture. One character snarls at another
who has decided to take a job in the United States: "You have chosen the most
elegant way of abandoning your country."

But others in the group want the chance to polish their careers, to see the
wider world, and perhaps make a small fortune in the process.

One character interviews with a "body-shopper," a sleazy employment recruiter
who is making big promises. The recruiter points to a huge wall map of the
United States and says, "Where do you want to go? Texas, Florida, East Coast,
West Coast? You name it!"

In real life, Sudip Banerjee, chief executive for operations at Indian software
giant Wipro, has seen the all-American gleam in the eyes of young programmers
and engineers.

"There's an amazing social pressure from parents to say, 'I have a son who got a
computer science degree and went to the U.S.' That's the kind of thing that
encourages so many people to try something crooked."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: About The Series
The Mercury News is publishing this two-part report in cooperation with
Businessworld, a leading New Delhi-based weekly magazine on the New Economy in
India. Businessworld Special Projects Editor Alam Srinivas contributed to the
reporting.
SUNDAY: Congress answered high tech's demand for more foreign temporary workers
by raising the number of H-1B visas available for the next three years, but it
failed to tackle fundamental problems in an overloaded system that some say
needs an overhaul. The growing H-1B program has spawned a lucrative middleman
industry, complete with its own hierarchy, opportunity and abuse.The H-1B Boom
[Part 1 of 2 a two-part series]
Mercury News Staff Writer Sarah Lubman contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (7), Map;
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON - MERCURY NEWS
Billboards advertising training schools line Miller Street in Bangalore, India,
nearly obscuring the makeshift living quarters below.
[001120 FR 1A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON - MERCURY NEWS
B. Krishnakanfh of Hyderabad scans job listings as he waits to be interviewed by
a U.S. firm.
[001120 FR 16A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON - MERCURY NEWS
Early-morning lines of H-1B visa applicants wait for service at the U.S.
Consulate in Chennai, India.
[001120 FR 16A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON - MERCURY NEWS
Visa applicants begin lining up before dawn for the U.S. Embassy in Delhi to
open at 7:30 a.m. Regardless of their place in line, everyone's application will
get processed, but still, nobody wants to risk getting squeezed by the visa cap.

[001120 FR 17A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON - MERCURY NEWS
A worker at the U.S. Consulate General in the southern Indian city of Chennai
sorts through the ever-growing pile of H-1B visa applications. The staff handles
as many as 1,000 applicants a day.
[001120 FR 17A]
PHOTO: [no photo credit]
Hundreds of Indian and multinational computer companies advertise heavily in
southern India, which is the hotbed of the country's high-tech boom
[001120 FR 16A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Besides many victims, Adiptron also left behind empty office space that is now
used by an attorney and a yoga instructor.
[001120 FR 17A]
MAP:
High-tech India
[Map not taken in the database]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 20, 2000 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1BOGUS TOUGH ANTI-FRAUD MEASURES ARE NEEDED TO CURB ABUSES IN VISA PROGRAM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 571 words


ONCE well-intentioned, the H-1B visa program is today fraught with abuse and
inefficiency.

Rather than mend the flawed system, Congress made a beeline for the easy fix: It
nearly doubled visas for foreign high-tech workers in the next three years,
easing the valley's cry for skilled tech talent.

As outlined in Mercury News articles today and Sunday, the legislation reflects
a response to a real need but fails to address core problems. Congress must
regroup now to do the real work.

In the short term, tough anti-fraud measures are needed.

Authorities said a fifth of visa applications in a province of India were
fraudulent, while the authenticity of nearly half the applications couldn't be
verified. In China, sham businesses help Chinese citizens enter the United
States using deceit.

In other instances, resumes are doctored. Bogus skills are added. Mediocre ones
are trumped up.

But with fewer than 40 Immigration and Naturalization Service investigators at
four service centers nationwide, authorities are hard-pressed to focus on a
particular case. Dozens more investigators are required to truly enforce laws
and thoroughly investigate claims against some of the agencies sponsoring
workers.

Bolstering worker protections to guard against exploitation must be another
priority.

Some scheming middlemen, who obtain visas and find jobs for foreign workers,
make their profits based on the percentage of a worker's salary. Fifty percent
commissions aren't uncommon.

Some of the contractors -- or so-called "body shops"-- have well-founded
reputations for underpaying workers, holding their passports and adding
restrictive clauses to contracts, among other abusive practices.

Naivete and fear of retaliation often block workers from complaining, leaving
the Labor Department with little to go on. Those intimidating scenarios could
change if workers were consistently schooled on labor laws and routinely
encouraged to speak up when those laws were violated. Immigration law should
ensure that all workers enjoy the same rights.

But those are short-range issues. Still awaiting resolution: Changes to
permanently stanch the worker shortfall by making it easier for foreign workers
to stay in America.

The H-1B was created to help companies fill periodic worker shortages by
temporarily hiring skilled hands from abroad. While we support the latest
increase in H-1B visas -- without them growth in the information technology
sector of the economy would slow -- this approach solves only part of the
problem.

Indeed, bureaucratic delays tend to create problems for companies and potential
H-1B candidates as well as opportunities for fraud. Easing processing backlogs
would minimize disruption for workers, their families and companies.

Officials must strongly consider reorganizing the immigration system --
curtailing the delays and difficulty -- to make it easier for skilled workers to
stay in this country.

The H-1B is already used as a roundabout way to a green card. But in a valley
where recruiting talented workers is a perpetual problem, that route is woefully
inefficient.

Congress must upgrade the plodding INS system to increase performance,
productivity and oversight. Ultimately, though, it will have to decide whether
to totally overhaul the H-1B program, offering a short-term visa for certain
jobs and another that puts green card applicants on the fast track.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 5, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B VISAS ALSO CALLED KEY TO KEEPING AMERICA'S EDGE IN AUSTIN SUMMIT, TECH
EXECUTIVES TELL BUSH SCHOOLS MUST GET BETTER

BYLINE: KEN MORITSUGU, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 874 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN


Led by Dell Computer Corp. Chairman Michael Dell, a "Who'sWho" of the high-tech
industry warned President-elect Bush on Thursday that the nation's future rides
on improving education.

The high-tech executives who met with Bush at the University of Texas
engineering school included the leaders of Cisco Systems of San Jose,
Hewlett-Packard of Palo Alto, America Online, IBM and Intel of Santa Clara. They
lobbied him on issues ranging from maintaining free trade and expanding visas
for high-tech workers to regulations on privacy and security.

But education dominated the two-hour, closed-door discussion, said Dell, who
heads a task force advising Bush on information-technology issues.

Cisco Systems President John Chambers warned of a U.S. loss of jobs unless the
nation improves schools.

"The jobs will move to where the best-educated workforce is in other countries,"
Chambers told reporters afterward. "It won't be jobs in California vs. North
Carolina or Boston. It will be jobs in the U.S. vs. jobs in India or jobs in
Jordan or jobs in the U.K. And we believe we've got about a decade to fix this."

The meeting was the second part of an economic summit that Bush held this week
in the Texas capital. Wednesday, he met with about 30 industry leaders, who
endorsed his call for a major tax cut to stimulate economic growth. The tech
leaders also backed a tax cut, Chambers said.

Bush emerged upbeat about the economy after his meeting with technology
executives, though he continued to express concern about the immediate future.

"We talked about how genuinely optimistic we are about the long term for the
country, but about how there are some concerns for the short term," he said.

Asked how he would advise Americans who lost a bundle in last year's plunge in
high-tech stocks, Bush got a laugh by responding, "I'd get them to get somebody
more qualified than me to pick stocks."

The expected call from high tech for education reform, a key issue for an
industry facing shortages of trained workers, dovetailed with Bush's
determination to put education at or near the top of his agenda when he assumes
office Jan. 20.

"The education issue is one that not only, it appears to me, was central to the
campaign, but is also central to the continuing growth and development of our
industry," Dell said. "Our industry is continuing to grow at rapid rates, and we
need the talented workforce to fuel the growth and development."

Bush hopes to score an early legislative victory on education, as both
Republicans and Democrats support change. But many Democrats oppose Bush's plan
to push vouchers that would use federal money to help students attend private
schools.

Analysts see one area of possible compromise: increased funding for schools in
return for required statewide testing for students, an initiative Bush has
championed in Texas. The analysts predict failure if he continues to push his
voucher plan.

The high-tech leaders generally agreed on the need to establish some kind of
standards for schools and that competition among schools is helpful. But they
differed on what form of competition is best, Chambers said. Supporters of
vouchers suggest the system would improve public schools by forcing them to
compete more with private schools for students.

The technology executives stressed the importance of early childhood
development, during the first three years of a child's life, and the need for
more math and science education.

Hewlett-Packard President Carly Fiorina said the country should do more to bring
women and minorities into the labor pool. Both groups are underrepresented in
the high-tech field, compared with their percentage of the overall population.

"The vast majority of qualified people for the high-tech industry must come from
women and minorities going forward," she said. "That means not only
strengthening the K-through-12 emphasis on math and science and engineering, it
also means encouraging more of our underrepresented communities to enter math,
science and engineering programs, increasing the retention rate in those
programs."

The tech leaders also called for adequate visas for high-tech workers from
abroad to fill the shortfall of skilled workers. The demand for the most
commonly used H-1B visa has outstripped the supply, despite increases in
theannual quotas.

Some labor groups oppose the visas, saying the country instead should train
Americans. Many of the executives agreed that local talent was preferable, but
stressed the need for the visas in the short term.

The group also emphasized the importance of free trade.

"We're ahead as a country in terms of high technology," said Jim Morgan, the
president of Applied Materials, a maker of semiconductor-manufacturing
equipment. "That gives the U.S. a big competitive advantage in the world
markets. But the issue of access to the markets and support for good
relationships between countries becomes very critical to the development of the
economy, jobs, taxes."

Industry leaders welcomed Bush's efforts to reach out to them Thursday.

"I think he clearly understands the correlation between growth and high tech,
the competitiveness of our economy and job creation," Chambers said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE GUEST LIST
High-tech executives who attended Bush's economic summit Thursday:
Michael Dell, Dell Computer Corp.
Jim Barksdale, the Barksdale Group
Craig Barrett, Intel Corp.
Carol Bartz, Autodesk Inc.
John Chambers, Cisco Systems
Dick Egan, EMC Corp.
Carly Fiorina, Hewlett-Packard Co.
Lou Gerstner, IBM
Dave Hanna, Hanna Capital
Floyd Kvamme, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
Scott McNealy, Sun Microsystems
Jim Morgan, Applied Materials
Steve Papermaster, Agillion
Len Pomata, Oracle Corp.
Gregory Slayton, ClickAction
Source: Bush-Cheney Transition Foundation

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
President-elect Bush, center, meets with leaders of the high-tech industry
Thursday in Austin. Standing behind Bush are Lou Gerstner of IBM, left, Carly
Fiorina of Hewlett-Packard, Michael Dell of Dell Computer and John Chambers of
Cisco Systems, right.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 21, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEMAND SLOWS FOR FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: SARAH LUBMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 578 words


U.S. demand for temporary, skilled foreign workers appears to be slowing, with
only half as many filings for H-1B visas in February compared with a year ago.

Last month, there were 16,000 filings for H-1B visas, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said Tuesday. In February 2000, that figure was 32,000.

The drop-off came less than six months after Congress, under pressure from the
technology industry, raised the annual cap on H-1B visas to 195,000 from
115,000. But just as the industry's boom sparked demands for more temporary
skilled workers, its slump is having the opposite effect. Although details about
the latest batch of H-1B visas won't be available for several months, about half
have gone to tech-related jobs in recent years.

The INS also released six-month statistics on the number of H-1B visas approved
from October 2000 to March 2001. But they can't be compared with the
previous-year figures because they exclude some visas that were exempted from
the annual cap by the recent legislation. The February figures, however,
represent "straight filings" without those exemptions, INS spokeswoman Eyleen
Schmidt said.

Middlemen who sponsor people on H-1B visas and send them out as contract workers
at tech and other companies are feeling the pinch, with more H-1B workers
sitting idle, losing their jobs or returning to their home countries. High-tech
H-1B visas go predominantly to workers from India.

H-1B visas are attached to companies, not individuals. They are good for three
years and can be renewed for another three, but regulations on what happens when
someone on an H-1B visa is laid off aren't clear. Although many H-1B workers and
even some immigration attorneys are under the impression that visa holders have
10 days to find another job -- a deadline cited last week by the Mercury News --
there is no such rule, INS officials say.

Technically, the employer is supposed to notify the INS, which revokes the
employee's H-1B visa. The employer then is supposed to buy the ex-employee a
one-way ticket home, though there's no set deadline.

"There is no cloak of good time when you're here in violation of your status,"
said Jimmie Ward, assistant director for operations at the INS' California
service center, which processes tens of thousands of the H-1B visas that have
helped fuel Silicon Valley's boom.

In practice, though, there's no penalty for failing to notify the INS, and most
employers don't bother, Ward said.

"As soon as that person is laid off, he or she should be making arrangements to
go back to their home country, with all costs paid by the employer," he said.
"In reality, they go out and find another job."

One critic of the current system said such loopholes leave people in unintended
-- and undesirable -- limbo.

"The theory was that if someone was hired temporarily, they would go home, not
hang around trying to catch a ride on the U.S. economy," said Paul Donnelly, a
spokesman for the Immigration Reform Coalition. "People are now spending their
time being indefinitely temporary."

Donnelly's group supports reforming the system for permanent residency, or green
cards, instead of adding more H-1B workers.

INS spokeswoman Schmidt denied a recent report by Wired.com that the agency had
decided to be more lenient toward laid-off H-1B workers -- a report that has
been making the e-mail rounds in Silicon Valley this week. "There has been no
change in policy," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 23, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN LEADER PAYS TRIBUTE TO SACRIFICES OF MIGRANT WORKERS

BYLINE: KAREN DE SA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1150 words

DATELINE: FRESNO


Mexican President Vicente Fox took a stab at history-making Thursday,
passionately telling thousands of Central Valley farmworkers that because they
had struggled for generations doing field work and living marginalized lives in
the United States, they are his heroes and the key to economic success in both
countries.

"We are rooting for you, and there's no doubt that we beat with one single
heart," Fox told the cheering, capacity crowd inside the 6,000-seat Fresno
Convention Center. "My very dear countrymen and women, I thank you from the
bottom of my heart."

Addressing them as no other Mexican president ever had, Fox said that for their
labor and sacrifice they would get something in return. He vowed topress
Mexico's Congress to grant expatriates the right to vote back home -- starting
with the 2003 elections and the next presidential race, in 2006 -- and said he
would work with U.S. officials to establish a guest-worker program so that
undocumented migrants could have some legal protections in the United States.

"The passionate and productive quality work of Mexicans should be legalized, and
we will be working toward this," said Fox, who credited the audience with
sustaining the California economy as well as entire villages back home.

He also announced a $50 million endowment to open a migrant health center in
Fresno, the heart of the state's agricultural community, and pledged support for
the right to dual citizenship so that Mexicans living in California could
"belong to two nations" -- a shift he called "an elemental act of justice." And
for those long trips home, he promised he would work to make border crossings
more hassle- and corruption-free.

Tears in their eyes

Dressed in cowboy hats and waving red United Farm Workers banners, many in the
crowd were overwhelmed to hear for the first time that they were now the object
of Mexico's admiration. Even hardened field workers had tears in their eyes.

"This one really meant a lot," said Natividad Santos, who spent 40 of his 66
years picking California's grapes and plums. He wore a faded "Justicia y
Dignidad" ("Justice and Dignity") button pinned to his shirt.

Coming during his first official U.S. visit since he took office in December,
Fox's speech further recast the image of the Mexican immigrant in California --
an image battered in recent years by hostile relations with former Gov. Pete
Wilson and by anti-immigration legislation.

"You are the cultural motor and the permanent ambassadors of the Mexican
culture, and as such have become a link between Mexico and the U.S.," Fox said.
"Because of this, you have earned your place in U.S. society."

Fox campaigned in California in May and views the expatriates as a source of
financial and moral support for his right-of-center National Action Party and
its legislative agenda.

The new mold cast by Mexico's head of state suited the Central Valley's field
hands just fine. The 20-minute speech was interrupted repeatedly by spontaneous
chants of "Si, se puede!" ("Yes, we can!").

Eucario Miranda changed from work clothes into a suit for the occasion. He took
time out from picking peaches to bring three 13-year-old boys to hear the
president speak. Others were listening as well.

Immediately after the morning address, Spanish-language talk radio in and around
Fresno resonated with giddy voices. Callers touted the speech as "a tremendous
emotional experience," "historic" and "inexplicable."

"Mexicans are finally part of this country," one caller said.

Today Fox wraps up the three-day tour that illuminated his goals for "the new
Mexico" he often touts in speeches. Wednesday, the former governor of Guanajuato
state told the Legislature that his country would continue feeding California's
desperate energy needs. Fox and Gov. Gray Davis pledged to do more business
together -- Mexico is California's No. 1 trading partner and a growing number of
manufacturers are moving there under free-trade agreements.

He also nudged Silicon Valley firms into closer relations with his country,
dining with more than 20 CEOs and touring two local manufacturing plants he
hopes will expand Mexican operations.

One sign of increased cooperation came Thursday. The Silicon Valley Center for
International Trade Development said it would lead a mission next month to
Tijuana and Mexicali to introduce information-technology and electronics firms
to potential Mexican partners.

Praise for expatriates

But in Fresno, the former Coca-Cola executive who converses easily in English
was Hermano ("Brother") Fox -- and he spoke Spanish to his people.

Fox said he wanted to pay tribute to their treacherous border crossings,
wrenching separations from family members and the sacrifices of multiple
generations.

"The experiences you acquired, the obstacles you've overcome, have made you
better men and women," Fox said. "You play an important strategic role for the
state of California. You are the fundamental pillars of two societies and a
bridge that unites two nations."

Increasingly recognized as a potent economic and social force, Mexicans living
in the United States send home about $6 billion each year, more than even what
Mexico's tourist industry generates.

"Mexico recognizes your loyalty and your commitment to your roots, which is
manifested in the money you send home every month," Fox said Thursday. "These
funds, this capital, has served to support us."

But not everyone praised the man whose election last year overturned 71 years of
one-party rule in Mexico.

After a February meeting with President Bush in Mexico, Fox said the two leaders
had formed a commission to establish a guest-worker program. And while Fox's
proposal sounds good to many Mexicans, high school teacher Ralphy Avitia isn't
one of them.

Dressed in defiant red and protesting on the streets of downtown Fresno on
behalf of the human rights group Nation of Aztlan, Avitia said temporary-worker
programs are reminiscent of the exploitative bracero programs of the 1940s and
'50s, and that Fox had yet to grant indigenous Mexicans their civil rights.

"My message is, 'Hey, people, he's not the great messiah here. We don't want
people to be so quick to jump at his feet,' " Avitia said. "We're not trying to
tell people, don't have hope. All we're saying is just be careful."

From Fresno, Fox wound up his California blitz by traveling to Southern
California. There, he inaugurated a Mexico-California trade center, visited an
elementary school with Laura Bush and unveiled a high-speed Internet link that
will allow Mexican university students access to the libraries of the University
of California system.

Outside the Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles, where Fox held a town hall
meeting, he was met by about two dozen protesters who lined the street, waved
American flags and shouted slogans against immigration.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story: page 24A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: KEVORK DJANSEZIAN -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
United Farm Workers member Rayes Rivera joins a rally Thursday honoring Vicente
Fox in Fresno. Rivera hoped the Mexican leader would sign the portrait he
painted.
PHOTO: MARK CROSSE -- FRESNO BEE
Karina Reynoso, left, of Woodlake joins other supporters to hear a speech by
Mexican President Vicente Fox, who visited Fresno on Thursday.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 4, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RULING A VICTORY FOR HOLDERS OF H-1B VISAS FIRM ORDERED TO DROP CONTRACT
RESTRICTIONS

BYLINE: SARAH LUBMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 855 words


In a rare victory for skilled foreign workers, a San Mateo County Superior Court
judge has ordered a Bay Area consulting firm to drop restrictive clauses from
its employment contract, including one that demands a $25,000 fee from employees
who leave to join the firm's clients. The firm, Compubahn, plans to appeal.

The legal battle offers a window onto the work environment for temporary
high-technology workers on H-1B visas, the bulk of whom come from India.
Compubahn recruits H-1B software programmers to the United States and markets
them for placement on technology projects. The firm has offices in Union City
and Woodbridge, Va., and its Web site lists E(*)Trade, Sun Microsystems and
Oracle among its clients.

While top H-1B engineers and scientists get recruited directly by big companies
like Oracle and Intel, many others wind up working for job shops under punitive
"non-compete" agreements that don't hold up in California courts. Usually, H-1B
visa holders are too worried that their employers will send them back to India
to challenge the contracts.

Dipen Joshi was different.

In March 1998, according to court documents, the Gujarati software engineer flew
from India to join Compubahn, but sat idle for six months before the firm could
place him. That September, Joshi was placed at Oracle from Compubahn by Advanced
Technology Staffing, a Redwood Shores placement firm. In June 1999, Joshi left
Compubahn for Oracle three months shy of his 18-month contract, which he says he
signed under duress shortly after arriving in the United States.

Compubahn's attorney responded with a letter to Joshi demanding $77,085 in
damages. The damages included a $25,000 "finder's fee" demanded under
Compubahn's employment contract if Joshi went to work for the firm's clients, or
even for potential clients, within a year after leaving Compubahn.

'Not ready to pay'

"I was not ready to pay them this kind of ransom," Joshi, 33, said in a
telephone interview. Joshi said he spent hours researching the minutia of state
and immigration regulations on the Internet before retaining a lawyer and
deciding to fight: "I was pretty sure of one thing: that these things can't be
legal in the U.S. Like asking people for $77,000. I didn't want to give in."

After months of haggling with Compubahn, Joshi sued the company in January 2000,
alleging fraud, misrepresentation and violation of a state statute against
unfair competition.

The last claim found a sympathetic ear. In a Feb. 27 judgment, Judge Phrasel
Shelton ruled that three clauses in Compubahn's employment contracts are "void
and unenforceable," and ordered the company to stop using them in future
contracts.

One clause forbids former employees to work for Compubahn's clients -- or even
companies with whom Compubahn "has had a meeting to discuss the possibility of
that company becoming a client" -- within a year of leaving Compubahn. A second
clause demands the $25,000 "finder's fee." A third clause requires employees who
leave Compubahn within 18 months to reimburse the firm for all relocation,
immigration and training costs, which in Joshi's case came to more than $10,000,
according to Compubahn.

Rajeev Aggarwal, Compubahn's president, said the company plans to appeal. "As
far as we know, most big businesses have a non-competitive clause," he said. "We
had some previous attorney who drafted this agreement and this is what we've
been following. If we're told there's something illegal about it, we'll be happy
to modify it."

Warned contract illegal

But Mukesh Advani, an Indian-born attorney whom Joshi first consulted about his
case, says he told Compubahn in 1999 that its employment contract was illegal in
California because it violates the state's unfair-competition law.

"I said, 'All these clauses are illegal and you're making things worse by trying
to enforce it,' " said Advani, who is based in San Francisco. "They pretended
they didn't know what I was talking about. Or maybe they didn't know or they
didn't understand."

Advani added that he represents job-shop clients who often want to include
similar clauses in their contracts, and that he always advises them against it.

"It's hard to tell clients they can't have something in their contract that
everyone else is using," Advani said. "I tell them, 'Listen, these are guys who
just came from India; they're not going to have a whole lot of money to pay you.
So you have a provision that subjects you to liability, and you're trying to
collect something that's uncollectable.' "

Compubahn, however, is fighting on. Navneet Chugh, Compubahn's attorney, said in
an e-mail message that Compubahn plans to appeal on grounds that "two of the
clauses are not 'non-compete' clauses but have been erroneously considered so by
the court." He wouldn't give further details.

"Overall, our view is that Dipen Joshi's lawyer's greed is driving this case,"
Aggarwal said. Joshi's lawyer, Michael Papuc, took the case on a contingency
basis and is seeking $414,000 -- double his $207,000 attorney's fees -- plus
$8,000 in costs.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 14, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LABOR SECRETARY BRINGS ISSUES AND ANSWERS TO SAN JOSE CHAO PROMOTES BUSH'S NEW
BUDGET, ALSO WANTS REVIEW OF HOW H-1BS ARE ISSUED

BYLINE: MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 469 words


Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao said Friday she wants to review how the
government issues visas for skilled foreign workers under a controversial
program backed by high-tech companies to fill jobs.

Appearing at a San Jose job training center, Chao acknowledged the need to find
a better method for "checking the veracity of dccuments" for H-1B applicants.
She appeared frustrated that her department only processes the requests for H-1B
visas.

The H-1B program has fallen under much scrutiny because of alleged fraud and
abuses. Chao said she thought the program could do a better job at assessing
applicants through a joint task force between her department and the Department
of Justice. She met with Attorney General John Ashcroft last week to discuss her
proposal.

"Either we're going to be in charge of the documents or not," she said.

But Chao refused to discuss what steps the task force would take to address
criticism that the process needed more scrutiny. She also acknowledged that a
backlog of visa requests had grown after a new auto-fax system was installed two
months ago and she was working to fix the bugs.

President Bush, during his campaign, supported the industry position that its
global competitiveness would suffer without qualified workers brought to the
United States through the program.

Chao made her stop in San Jose as part of a four-day stump to promote President
Bush's new budget at a time of economic uncertainty. She spent the morning
touring the San Jose Job Corps Center, where more than 400 low-incomestudents
receive training to enter the workforce.

After discussing H-1B visas, she said, "Let's try to develop a quality workforce
that is able to take advantage of these great jobs and fill the demand of
high-tech companies."

A child immigrant from Taiwan, Chao told the students, some of whom were
immigrant themselves, that hope is what helped her get through the "daily
indignities" she faced "not knowing much, not speaking English."

She also said the economy shows clear signs of weakening not only in high tech,
but also in other parts of the country. She said a tax cut would be the best
prescription.

"We may haggle over the exact size of the tax cut" Chao said. But, she added, "A
meaningful tax cut will mean more money in workers' pockets to protect them from
the softening economy that is coming."

A small group of Democrats protested outside the job corps center.

"It just seems hypocritical that the Bush administration would send a cabinet
member to tout a tax cut plan at the job corps center where the folks would
likely not be the recipients of those benefits and in fact would be hurt by
budget proposals to cut child care, health care and ergonomic standards," Santa
Clara County Democratic Party Chairman Steve Preminger said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Student Antonio Navarro helps Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao make a video
conference call during her visit Friday to the San Jose Job Corps, where 400
low-income students receive training to enter the workforce.
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao tries some of the fare from culinary students at
the Job Corps Center.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 3, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HEALTH WORKERS IN AFRICA, MEXICO AND CHINA STRUGGLE AGAINST MISINFORMATION AND
OVERWHELMING PROVERTY MERCILESS EPIDEMIC HAS SPREAD WORLDWIDE MIGRANT WORKERS
LEAD TO GROWING TOLL IN RURAL MEXICO

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 1AA

LENGTH: 1276 words

DATELINE: GUADALAJARA, Mexico


Jaime Lopez had a secret, and he died without telling his wife.

Had he shared more about his bachelor years as a migrant worker in California,
had he been open about the symptoms that weakened him after marriage, she
probably would have known what he was hiding: AIDS.

Only after the funeral did she find out; by then it was too late. Leti Hernandez
and the son she gave birth to five years ago are infected with HIV, the virus
that causes AIDS.

While the number of AIDS cases in the United States has been controlled with
medicine, education and money, the epidemic is traveling a deadly course into
Mexico's rural regions, driven in part by migrant workers. A growing number of
these immigrants who seek quick cash from temporary jobs in California are
instead taking home a disease they knew little about.

On the eve of the 20th anniversary of the AIDS epidemic in the United States, it
is increasingly clear that the disease is also having devastating consequences
in rural Mexico, which is ill-equipped to handle it. Villages on the outskirts
of Guadalajara, in the states of Jalisco and Michoacan, are among the hardest
hit.

This also is a region where AIDS packs a horrible stigma. The infected quickly
become outcasts, seldom telling their own relatives of their disease. Families
are forced from their neighborhoods. Parents are fired from jobs. Children are
expelled from schools.

"People don't want to talk to me, they laugh at me; they think I'm going to
infect them," said Hernandez, the 28-year-old Guadalajara mother who contracted
HIV from her husband, Jaime Lopez, whom she married in 1995.

She believes he got infected before they began dating, when he worked odd jobs
in Los Angeles, hoping to earn enough money to open a bakery in Mexico. But he
never mentioned the disease upon his return, because of the stigma; Hernandez
learned that much from her in-laws after his death two years ago.

And now the secret he kept so well has become a secret of her own.

"People are more fearful of others finding out they have AIDS than they are of
dying," said Aida de Luna Lopez, a psychologist who runs Ser Humano, a hospice
in Guadalajara.

About 48,000 AIDS cases have been reported in Mexico, but government health
officials fear that figure could be four times higher, in part because returning
migrants often forgo treatment. As many as 177,000 are believed to be infected
with HIV, according to government estimates.

In 1995, rural areas accounted for about 4 percent of Mexico's reported AIDS and
HIV cases. That number has now climbed to about 10 percent -- and it includes
more women and children than ever.

Health officials estimate that at least 30 percent of AIDS cases in Michoacan,
which sends tens of thousands of workers to cities around the Bay Area,
originated in the United States. There are more than 400 reported AIDS cases in
Michoacan.

"The problem came through our northern border, but now it's our problem, our own
problem, and it's a problem that we need to focus on," said Dr. Porcia Barbara
Mendoza Hernandez, the state AIDS director for Michoacan.

Her office began an education crusade last year to teach AIDS prevention in the
state's 113 municipalities. Mendoza, and other government health officials,
express surprise that the United States isn't doing the same for the migrant
population.

Prevention efforts funded by the United States federal and state governments are
largely directed at entire racial or ethnic groups; there also are programs at
the U.S.-Mexico border. But specific programs and services directed at the
hundreds of thousands of Mexican migrant workers in California and elsewhere are
left, for the most part, to meagerly funded local health jurisdictions and
non-profit groups.

AIDS educators also face numerous hurdles in Mexico, a nation that is 85 percent
Roman Catholic, where some priests will scold health educators for advocating
the prevention of AIDS by promoting condoms, because of the church's stance
against artificial forms of contraception.

"I've always believed that if the priests would declare during their Masses that
people should use birth control, we would have finished with this epidemic,"
said Luna, the hospice director, who is Catholic.

The church says it's doing its part to ease the pain from AIDS: The Archdiocese
of Guadalajara runs one of the largest hospices in Mexico, caring for dozens of
patients, including children.

In the United States, migrant farmworkers are among the most vulnerable
tocontract diseases, including hepatitis C, and they're 10 times as likely as
the general population to acquire HIV, according to the National Commission to
Prevent Infant Mortality.

But most lack health insurance, and their work schedules conflict with clinic
hours. Others are undocumented and fear being deported for seeing a doctor.

Rural clinics the past few years refocused their outreach efforts, urging men to
be monogamous, and offering on-site HIV tests to farmworkers during their lunch
breaks. But the target audience can be difficult to reach.

Before discussing AIDS, educators must first teach basic health education, then
hygiene, then sex education. Health educators say they are often the first to
teach farmworkers about contraception.

"A lot of them don't know what a condom is or looks like," said Artemiza Avalos,
the farmworker outreach coordinator for the Monterey County AIDS Project.

Curbing migrant AIDS also requires changes in behavior, health workers say,
especially among lonely farmworkers whose wives and girlfriends are 2,000 miles
away.

"What we have seen is that when individuals go to the United States, their
lifestyle changes completely," said Dr. David Diaz Santana, who treats dozens of
HIV-infected migrants in Guadalajara.

"He's typically a married man, with a family," Diaz said, "and he assumes the
role of a single man."

Prostitutes follow the migrant seasons, showing up at labor camps and bars on
farmworkers' payday, in places such as Watsonville, Merced and Delano.

About 45 percent of Mexican migrant workers questioned in a 1997 study reported
having sex with prostitutes in the United States, and condom use was reported to
be rare, according to Kurt Organista, a University of California-Berkeley
associate professor of social welfare, author of the study.

As in Mexico, a growing number of American researchers say the United States
should do more to slow migrant AIDS.

"The burden of the disease that is contracted out here is paid for by another
society," said Shiraz Mishra, an associate professor of medicine at UC-Irvine,
who compiled a book on rural AIDS from the work of several researchers.

The most recent state-funded AIDS study of California farmworkers, in 1994,
found no incidents of HIV in five rural northern counties, despite a way of life
and behavior that was deemed risky, said Juan Ruiz, chief of the epidemiologic
studies section for the California Office of AIDS, a branch of the state
Department of Health Services.

"We didn't find any cases of AIDS/HIV infection, but the data we collected
really shows the potential, because there is a lot of risk-taking in that
population," Ruiz said.

His office plans to request funding for a new, more comprehensive study.

Hernandez, meanwhile, recently spent several days and nights in a Guadalajara
hospital, with her son, Jaime, who was being treated for complications related
to the virus.

"This is very painful," Hernandez said. "I've already lived my life, but my
child, he's just starting out, and it's very sad. You know that sooner or later
his time will come."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE WORLD
AIDS
20 YEARS OF AN EPIDEMIC

GRAPHIC: Photos (6), Map;
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Beneath a depiction of God at a church-operated hospice just outside
Guadalajara, Mexico, Sister Adriana holds an infant named Pablito, whose parents
have both died of AIDS.
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Typical of church efforts to alleviate the suffering of AIDS patients is this
hospice near Guadalajara, where a nurse helps a patient dress.
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
A nurse at a church-operated hospice outside Guadalajara, Mexico, helps an AIDS
patient, one of the growing horde taxing the country's health facilities.
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
A child peers from a crib in Guadalajara. Many U.S. researchers say the United
States should do more to slow AIDS among migrants.
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Aida de Luna Lopez is a psychologist who runs a 10-bed hospice in Guadalajara,
Mexico's second-largest city.
PHOTO: Dr. David Diaz Santana treats dozens of AIDS and HIV patients in
Guadalajara. Spread of the disease is attributed in part to migrant workers.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 20, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONSULTING FIRM SETTLES H-1B DISPUTE INDIAN SOFTWARE WORKER ALLEGED
MISREPRESENTATION

BYLINE: SARAH LUBMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 336 words


A Bay Area consulting firm has lost its legal battle with askilled foreign
worker, and agreed this week to settle with him for an undisclosed amount.

The firm, Compubahn, was sued last year by Dipen Joshi, an Indian software
engineer who accused his former employer of fraud, misrepresentation and
violation of a state statute against unfair competition.

The case offered a rare window into the work environment for temporary
high-technology workers on H-1B visas, most of whom come from India.

Although top H-1B engineers and scientists get recruited directly by big
technology companies, many others end up working for job shops under punitive
"non-compete" agreements. H-1B visa holders are usually too afraid their
employers will send them back to India to challenge the contracts, even though
such agreements don't hold up in California courts.

Joshi was an H-1B worker at Compubahn, which recruits software programmers to
the United States and markets them for placement on technology projects. The
firm has offices in Union City and Woodbridge, Va.

After Joshi left Compubahn in 1999, three months shy of his 18-month contract,
the firm demanded $77,085 in damages. The damages included a $25,000 "finder's
fee" demanded under Compubahn's employment contract if Joshi went to work for
the firm's clients, or even for potential clients, within a year after leaving
Compubahn.

In February, a San Mateo Superior Court judge agreed that Compubahn had violated
California's unfair-competition law. Judge Phrasel Shelton ruled that three
clauses in Compubahn's employment contracts were "void and unenforceable" and
ordered the company to stop using them in future contracts.

Compubahn appealed the case, but lost. The 1st District Court of Appeal
dismissed Compubahn's appeal last week, and the firm settled with its former
employee this week.

Attorneys for both Compubahn and Joshi said the case was settled "to the mutual
satisfaction of all parties" and declined further comment.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Business Extra

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 203 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 25, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

F. RODRIGUEZ, 80, NIGHTCLUB OWNER

BYLINE: DENNIS KNIGHT, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 403 words


Fernando Flores Rodriguez, a Mexican immigrant who rose from humble beginnings
as a migrant worker to become a popular nightclub operator, died July 15 from
congestive heart failure in Sunnyvale. He was 80.

The son of a Mexican military officer and the youngest of five brothers, Mr.
Rodriguez was born in Piedras Negras, in Coahuila, Mexico. As a youth, he
excelled in academics and athletics.

He ran in a marathon at a national track and field meet held in Mexico City in
the late 1930s and was a state featherweight boxing champion, said daughter
Juanita Madrid Castillo of Morgan Hill.

"He was an outgoing and energetic man who always stayed in shape," Castillo
said. "I think that's why he lasted 80 years."

At the age of 25, Mr. Rodriguez owned a livestock ranch and an ice cream shop.
That was also the year he met Dominga, the woman who would be his wife for 51
years before she died in April. The couple moved to the United States and
traveled extensively, following the trail of the migrant worker.

The couple ended up in Eagle Pass, Texas. With the help of money earned through
livestock sales, a bookkeeping job that paid $1 a day and picking cotton, Mr.
Rodriguez bought a lot for $500 in 1948. Through an apprenticeship, Mr.
Rodriguez became a master carpenter and built a house on the lot.

Mr. Rodriguez went to Sunnyvale to work for Libby Foods in 1961, buying a house
a block from the plant so he could be available to work whenever he was needed,
Castillo said. He worked there for more than 20 years.

Later he built a two-story condominium in spare time.

Mr. Rodriguez was an avid gardener and an active member of St. Martin Church. At
his daughter Juanita's wedding in 1971, he slaughtered the cattle and made a pit
barbecue, staying up all night and working all day to feed the party of 1,000.

In the mid-1980s, Mr. Rodriguez opened a bar in Sunnyvale called Club Olympico.
It was popular with the Latino community, featuring dancing and broadcasting all
the big Mexican soccer and boxing matches. Heart problems forced Mr. Rodriguez
to close the club in 1989.

Castillo said her father's commitment to family and friends will always be
remembered. "The most important value to him was the respect that the family had
for each other," Castillo said. "He said a parent should show his child the same
loving respect that the child needed to have toward the parent."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Fernando F. Rodriguez
Born: May 7, 1921, in Piedras Negras, Coahuila, Mexico.
Died: July 15, 2001, in Sunnyvale.
Survived by: Daughters Juanita Madrid Castillo of Morgan Hill, Maricela Romero
of Sunnyvale and Dora Alicia Hernandez of Sunnyvale; brother, Jose Valentin
Rodriguez of San Jose; and nine grandchildren.
Services: Have been held.
Memorial: Donations can be made in his name to the American Heart Association.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Mr. Rodriguez

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
