
                               1 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 29, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. CRAFT INTERCEPTS BOAT OFF MEXICO IMMIGRANT-SMUGGLING OPERATION SUSPECTED

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


More than 150 people believed to be immigrants of Asian descent were intercepted
off the Mexico coast and were being held Friday until federal officials
determined what to do with them.

The vessel Chih Yung was spotted Thursday in international waters about 100
miles west of Baja California by a U.S. Coast Guard HC-130 airplane patrolling
in the area, and authorities said they believe the boat was being used to
smuggle the people to Mexico or the United States.

"We diverted the (cutter) Munro to the location," Coast Guard spokeswoman Jamie
Devitt said in San Diego. "They arrived at that location and determined that
there were more than 150 people of Asian descent on that vessel."

Both men and women are aboard the rusty 180-foot white boat, which appeared to
be a fishing vessel, Devitt said. It was not immediately clear whetherchildren
were aboard.

"Our No. 1 concern is the safety and well-being of the people aboard that
vessel," Devitt said. "We are going to abide by the orders that are given to us
by the people in Washington and wait for their final decision as to what they're
going to do with the boat."

In 1992-93, a spate of boat landings of undocumented Chinese immigrants occurred
on both coasts, from San Francisco to Mexico and, most visibly, in New York
harbor on the ill-starred Golden Venture, which broke up near shore.

The migrants in Thursday's seizure were being fed and were given personal
hygiene items. Devitt said she did not have much information about their
condition.

A video released by the Coast Guard showed people sitting quietly, packed
shoulder-to-shoulder aboard the trash-strewed vessel.

The Munro remained with the boat while federal authorities worked to determine
the nationality of those aboard and the registry of the boat.

Devitt said she had little information about the investigation and referred
calls to the Federal Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement
Affairs, which did not return phone calls.

Devitt said she flew over the boat Friday but could not give details of its
location or release much information regarding those aboard because of security
concerns. She said some of the migrants were taken aboard the Munro, which has a
crew of more than 100 and medical personnel.

"They're taking medical precautions, wearing gloves, masks, just to make sure
nobody gets sick either way," Devitt said.

About a year ago, 69 Chinese immigrants were intercepted by the Coast Guard in a
boat in the same area. After more than two weeks of wrangling between the U.S.
and Mexican governments over who should take custody of the migrants, U.S.
authorities chartered a plane to fly nearly all of them back to China.

Four were allowed to remain in the United States to apply for political asylum.

In July 1993, the Coast Guard found more than 650 undocumented Chinese on three
boats floating in the same international waters. More than 40 smugglers were
arrested, and most of the Chinese were immediately repatriated to their homeland
by airplane.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 17, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS LACKS CELL SPACE FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS, SENATE PANEL TOLD

BYLINE: JAMES A. DUFFY, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Lack of cell space is forcing thousands of undocumented immigrants -- including
many seeking political asylum -- into state and federal prisons, where some of
them are abused by guards and criminals, a Senate subcommittee was told
Wednesday.

The Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, a human rights
organization, charged that many asylum seekers who have never committed crimes
are forced into prisons because the Immigration and Naturalization Service lacks
sufficient detention areas to hold them while their requests for asylum are
being processed.

These immigrants must wait in prison while INS officials decide whether they
have a credible fear of political persecution in the country they left behind.
Many claim to have been repeatedly strip-searched, verbally and mentally
harassed, and otherwise demeaned while in U.S. prisons.

"It seems to me we are doing a political injustice to these people who come to
us from overseas," said Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., a member of the Senate
Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on immigration, which heard testimony on the
issue Wednesday.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner told the committee that she has heard of such
incidents, but said they are rare.

Fauziya Kassindja, 21, who fled Africa in 1994, told the committee her
experience at the Esmor Detention Center in New Jersey scarred her so much she
"wanted to die."

She said she was beaten and tear-gassed by prison officials and denied medical
care for bleeding ulcers. She said she also was ordered to strip naked, despite
her claim that she was menstruating.

"That moment I wished that the walls in that little room would just crack for me
to penetrate through," she said.

Actor Sam Waterston, who is active in several human rights groups, also told
stories of women who allegedly were mistreated by those charged to care for
them.

One 20-year-old Muslim woman fled Uganda after her sister was abducted by the
military there because of their brother's involvement in anti-government
guerrilla forces, Waterston said. At one point the woman was restrained by a
team of men in riot gear. They stripped her, bound her in restraints and placed
her in solitary confinement for a week, he said.

Meissner defended the immigration agency's main focus on detaining criminal
immigrants, and said there now may be more than 300,000 undocumented immigrants
in the United States.

"It is our top enforcement priority, the removal of dangerous aliens," she said.

Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., the subcommittee chair, contended that the
priorities of the INS should be more closely examined and more attention should
be paid to legitimate asylum seekers.

Meissner said immigrants seeking asylum usually stay in detention centers for
about 34 days.

"We hold illegal aliens in very large numbers," she said. "Only in unusual
circumstances would we let them go. The benefit of release only goes to
non-criminals."

The INS deals with more than 16,000 detainees and recently has had to cope with
a 70 percent explosion of immigrants who face deportation, largely because of
tougher sanctions imposed by Congress in 1996.

"If we don't offer a safe haven to those fleeing without persecution, our
demands that other countries respect the right of their citizens are without
meaning," Waterston said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 26, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUSTICES OFFER NO RELIEF TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 582 words


OPPONENTS of the federal crackdown on illegal immigrants will have to look
elsewhere than the U.S. Supreme Court for relief.

In opinions handed down Monday, the court first overwhelmingly upheld a federal
law limiting an immigrant's rights to appeal a deportation order. Then it more
narrowly, and more gratuitously, endorsed the authority of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to choose which illegal immigrants to pursue.

The case before the court involved eight Palestinian-rights activists living in
the Los Angeles area, who the government claimed were supporters of terrorism.
The INS made no secret of the fact that it was seeking to deport them because of
their political activities, but the technical basis for their deportation was
that they had overstayed their visas and were in the country illegally.

The eight claimed they were being unfairly singled out for exercising their
First Amendment rights.

While the deportation case was in process, Congress passed the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, which prevents
immigrants from challenging the INS in federal court until the end of the
deportation process. Previously, immigrants had been able to file court appeals
midstream.

Congress was fed up with the extent to which immigrants in deportation
proceedings were able to drag out the appeals process by asking federal courts
to review the decisions of the INS. Perhaps it had in mind this case, which
began in 1987 and bounced between federal district courts and appeals courts.

The law clearly applied to deportation cases initiated after its passage. On
Wednesday, the Supreme Court ruled 8-1 that it applies also to cases in process,
such as that of the Palestinian activists, when the law was passed.

The effect of the ruling is that the activists must keep appealing within the
INS, and not in federal court, where they were pursuing the First Amendment and
selective prosecution arguments.

Even though the Supreme Court ruled that lower courts don't have the authority
to consider the First Amendment argument at this time in this case, it went
ahead and threw cold water on it.

"When an alien's presence in this country is in violation of the immigration
laws," Justice Antonin Scalia wrote, "the government does not offend the
Constitution by deporting him."

In law enforcement matters of all kinds, Scalia argued, the authorities do not
pursue everyone who has broken any law. They set priorities about which laws and
which law breakers are most important. Courts rarely agree with claims of
selective prosecution.

Three justices dissented from this part of the decision. They did not
necessarily disagree with Scalia's argument. But they noted that the court had
earlier said it would not address the First Amendment question, then went ahead
and did it anyway.

Given the number of deportations under the new law, a claim of selective
prosecution is hard to credit. In 1992, the INS ordered 43,525 deportations; in
1998, it ordered 169,072. Very few of those deported have alleged that they were
singled out for exercising their free speech rights. Even if they were,
shouldn't the government have the right to target the lawbreakers it thinks pose
the greatest threat?

As for the immigration bill itself, if we had written it, illegal immigrants
would be given more of a chance to make a case that they should be allowed to
stay. But the court is right that that is not what Congress wanted.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial
The opinion of the Mercury News
Immigration

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 17, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BAN HOW 1997 REFORM ACT CREATED HARDSHIP FOR BAY AREA FAMILY

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 637 words


A Mercury News story this week dealt with the plight of Lili Martinez, a
Peruvian national who has been barred from the country.

She left the Bay Area in December to see her ailing father in Lima, only to
learn about a 1996 federal law that prohibits anyone who has lived in the
country illegally for more than a year from returning to the United States for a
decade.

Martinez, a green card applicant married to an American citizen, had overstayed
a tourist visa.

Martinez and her 11-month-old daughter are now living in Lima while her husband,
Ralph, is living in Campbell. In interviews, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials, immigrant advocates and anti-immigrationactivists answered
questions about the law affecting the Martinezes:
Q
Why was this 10-year bar enacted?

A
The provision is just one part of the Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act, a wide-ranging law primarily designed to crack down on
illegal immigration. Many provisions of the law, signed by President Clinton in
September 1996, took effect on April 1, 1997. Under the law, people found to be
living in the country illegally for more than 180 days are barred from
re-entering the country for three years. Those here illegally for a year or more
are prohibited for 10 years.
Q
What led to the law's passage?

A
Many politicians point to Proposition 187, the California ballot measure that
passed overwhelmingly in November 1994. The initiative, aimed at denying illegal
immigrants public benefits, created a nationwide groundswell of support for
tough immigration laws. In 1998, the proposition was ruled unconstitutional by a
federal judge.

Q
What else does the law do?
A
Here are some highlights: It authorized 1,000 more Border Patrol agents each
year for five years and increased penalties against those smuggling illegal
immigrants. It created pilot programs that make it easier for employers to check
the immigration status of prospective workers -- and made it much easier to
deport people who falsely claimed "political asylum" as a way to slip into the
county. It greatly increased the number of legal immigrants who are eligible for
deportation because of crimes they commit.
Q
What have been the most controversial provisions of the law?
A
Much of the law -- the provisions aimed at smugglers and beefing up the Border
Patrol, for instance -- has been implemented with little controversy. But the
"three- and 10-year bars," the changes in asylum laws and the provisions that
expanded the deportation of "criminal aliens" have generated fierce opposition.
Many lawyers and advocates for immigrants say it's not fair to deport people
with deep roots in the United States who committed crimes many years ago.

Q
Explain the reasoning behind the three- and 10-year bars.
A
Politicians and groups battling illegal immigration call them necessary
deterrents. Before the 1996 law, they note, people who overstayed tourist and
student visas were not punished at all. "Once you establish that there are
consequences to breaking the law, people do start obeying it," said Ira Mehlman,
a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Q
Does the INS make any exceptions?
A
Yes. But in many cases the agency's discretion has been limited by the 1996 law.
In the case of Lili Martinez, for example, the agency can issue waivers. But the
person barred from the country must prove "extreme hardship" to a spouse or
parent living in the United States legally. By themselves, family separation and
"financial inconvenience" are not considered grounds for a waiver.
Q
How many people have filed for such waivers? And what percentage are being
granted?
A
"We don't have a breakdown," Elaine Komis, an INS spokeswoman, said Wednesday.
"But at some point we will."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
If you have suggestions for topics that could be addressed in this feature,
please call us at (408) 920-5993, fax us at (408) 288-8060, send us an e-mail at
local@sjmercury.com or write to the Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San
Jose, Calif. 95190.Q&A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS FILE PHOTO
Lili Martinez and her daughter, Cassandra, were barred from returning to the
U.S. after visiting Martinez's father in Peru.
[990617 LO 6B SC]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 19, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEMONSTRATORS MASS DURING ZEDILLO VISIT PROTESTS ON PROP. 187, HUMAN RIGHTS
ABUSES

BYLINE: HALLYE JORDAN, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 623 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


About 1,000 demonstrators filled the lawn of the state Capitol on Tuesday to
mark the first visit this century by a Mexican president with protests against
his government's human rights policies and the state's anti-immigration law.

An immigration lobbying event was scheduled long before President Ernesto
Zedillo Ponce de Leon announced he would kick off a three-day swing through
California at the Capitol, but the issues of Proposition 187 and Mexico's bloody
quelling of rebellion in the southern state of Chiapas shared a public airing
thanks to the coincidence of timing.

As activists denounced Gov. Gray Davis for refusing to drop the appeal of
aProposition 187 court ruling, Zedillo was telling reporters that he has trust
in Davis' decision to send the initiative to mediation. Zedillo added that he
believes the courts will provide "a good solution" to the divisive 1994
initiative that banned public school and most health services for illegal
immigrants.

Eric Mar, acting executive director of the Northern California Coalition for
Immigrant Rights, who helped organize "Hungry for Justice: Immigrant Lobby Day,"
disagreed.

"Many immigrant communities helped put him (Davis) into office, and we feel
everything we are saying is falling on deaf ears," Mar said. "The message we are
sending here is we are organized and we're not going to go away. We want to work
with the governor so he can represent our needs."

Lisa Castellanos and Anabel Ibanez, both of San Jose, held yellow and black
placards urging Davis to "End the Politics of Division" on one side and "Drop
the 187 Appeal Now" on the flip side. The women were among 50 demonstrators who
went by caravan to Sacramento for the day.

"We want the Legislature to understand the needs of the immigrant community, not
only in the South Bay but throughout the state," said Ibanez, 28, a community
organizer with the South Bay Labor Council. "Given the fact that in Santa Clara
County, immigrants make up one-third of the population, they need to understand
that whatever policies they pass are going to affect a large number of people."

Later Tuesday, 75 anti-Zedillo and anti-Proposition 187 protesters chanted
slogans, waved homemade signs and carried white crosses outside San Francisco's
Fairmont Hotel before Zedillo's 8 p.m. speech.

"We might be here few of us," the demonstration's leader said into a microphone.
"But we are here to represent those people who have disappeared."

He referred to casualties in the Mexican government's war against the people of
Chiapas.

Before his speech, Zedillo hosted a private meeting with about 30 Latino leaders
from throughout California, including three from San Jose.

Mexican Heritage Corp. Chairman Fernando Zazueta invited Zedillo to the opening
of the Mexican Heritage Plaza in East San Jose on Sept. 9. Zedillo didn't say
whether he would attend, but "he said he'd do anything in his power to see if
something can be done to respond to us," Zazueta said.

Demonstrators in Sacramento also spent the day lobbying lawmakers to pass bills
to increase job training, social services, employment protection and health care
for poor families, regardless of their immigration status. And they urged
support of a bill that would allow undocumented immigrants who graduate from
California high schools to pay in-state tuition if they are accepted to
California State University or a community college campus.

Of key interest is a bill carried by state Sen. John Vasconcellos, D-San Jose,
that would require all schools with at least 50 low-income students to provide
breakfast to students each school day.

"That legislation will benefit the whole community, and we support that,"
Castellanos said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Pages 1A, 12A
Mercury News Staff Writer Edwin Garcia contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 20, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LOOK AT IMMIGRATION POLICIES' HUMAN TOLL, MEXICO LEADER PLEADS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 982 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


In the middle of his three-day trip to California, Mexican President Ernesto
Zedillo Ponce de Leon urged the state and nation to consider the human costs of
immigration policies, from efforts to deny benefits to illegal immigrants to
crackdowns at the border.

Zedillo, who spent part of his youth in Mexicali in a house just five blocks
from the United States, said a federal border-control program has pressured
Mexicans into crossing illegally at more remote areas, leading tohundreds of
deaths in scorching summer heat and frigid winters.

"We have told the American authorities to consider the human rights and this
fundamental human aspect" of the risks the immigrants are taking, Zedillo said.

Gov. Gray Davis, responding to Zedillo's comments at a televised meeting, said
he wants to restore mutual respect as a hallmark of the relationship between
Mexico and California, where one-third of the population is Latino.

"I believe states and nations have a right to protect their borders and enforce
their laws, but I also agree with the president that every human being has
dignity," Davis said, speaking in what Zedillo called the world's
second-most-populous Mexican city. "I have great respect for immigrants.
Obviously, I would like them to come into the country legally, but I know how
hard they work, how much they contribute and what good and decent people they
are."

In his most extensive remarks on immigration during this trip, Zedillo clearly
stated his adamant opposition to Proposition 187, the ballot initiative that led
to a five-year chill in bilateral relations.

"We have seen with satisfaction that, thanks to a very dedicated and intelligent
fight by many organizations in the legal field, this proposition is being
defeated," Zedillo said of the 1994 measure that sought to disqualify illegal
immigrants from state-sponsored benefits, including education and health care.

A federal court declared the measure unconstitutional, and former Gov. Pete
Wilson appealed the ruling. Latino leaders urged Davis to drop the appeal, but
Davis asked the court to mediate the dispute. His decision, following his
promise during his campaign to end wedge-issue politics, infuriated Latino
leaders.

Trust in Davis

Zedillo, however, reiterated that he trusts Davis' judgment and believes he will
do everything in his power "so the negative effects" the measure would have on
Mexicans won't materialize.

Zedillo's comments were televised live during a town-hall-style meeting at the
California Science Center, which was carried on the Spanish-language network
Univision to about 750,000 households.

The program, dubbed "Two leaders, one future," was originally planned to include
questions from home viewers and audiences in San Jose, Sacramento, Fresno, Los
Angeles and San Diego, but the press-shy president opposed the idea.

San Jose residents who watched the meeting live from a makeshift studio at the
MACSA Youth Center in East San Jose offered mixed reviews of the historic
meeting.

Questioning promises

Although pleased with the one-hour discussion, most wondered whether Zedillo and
Davis would fulfill their promises. "My concern is whether things are really
going to change," said Maggie Madueno, events coordinator with the American GI
Forum of San Jose, a Mexican-American veterans group that sponsors downtown San
Jose's annual Cinco de Mayo festival.

Despite the backlash from some Latinos who have denounced Davis for refusing to
drop the appeal of Proposition 187, Madueno said she is confident the governor
will continue to work with the Latino community. "He's American, but his heart
is in the Hispanic community," she said.

Although 100 residents were expected, only about three dozen turned out at the
youth center. Zedillo's decision not to take questions from the audience did not
sit well with audience member Angel Rios. "In this country, we have a right to
question President Clinton and the governor," Rios said. "The next time
(Zedillo) comes to California, we should be able to question him."

Rios said he was pleased with the discussion but that Davis' responses were too
vague and appeared rehearsed. He said Zedillo was "more frank with his answers."

Zedillo and Davis started the day in San Francisco and flew to Burbank. The two
then traveled by train to Union Station in downtown Los Angeles, where they were
welcomed by a mariachi band and a boisterous crowd of severalhundred.

"Viva Los Angeles! Viva Mexico!" Mayor Richard Riordan shouted, thrusting both
thumbs into the air. In his greeting, Riordan, like Davis, noted the
commonalities between California and Mexico, and praised Zedillo for his
willingness to strengthen the relationship.

Riordan's welcome

"As we celebrate our history," Riordan said, "we also embrace the dawn of a new
century and the hope for a new generation where our people can share in the
bounty of opportunity, partnership and prosperity."

Zedillo, interrupted by applause several times, praised Mexicans and
Mexican-Americans for working hard in the United States to achieve the American
dream.

And he said California's economic boom couldn't have been accomplished without
the help of Mexicans working in the Golden State.

Speaking at a luncheon, Zedillo repeated the three-pronged message of his visit,
which began Tuesday in Sacramento. Mexico is progressing, he boasted, because of
economic prosperity, improvements in social justice and the implementation of
democratic reforms during his five years in office.

Davis told the audience that California will establish 15 Mexican trade centers
at community colleges around the state, including two in Silicon Valley. The
centers in the West Valley-Mission Community College District and at Gavilan
Community College in Gilroy will provide intensive, five-day programs to help
companies do business with Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: Page 22A
Mercury News Staff Writer Anne Martinez contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Zedillo
[990520 FR 1A]
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
The Venegases, from left, Paul, Sara and April, watch broadcast in San Jose of
Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo and Gov. Gray Davis.
[990520 FR 22A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 28, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN TEXAS DESERT, HEAT OVERCOMES HOPE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT FIGHTS FOR SURVIVAL
DURING TREK ACROSS THE BORDER

BYLINE: JULIA PRODIS, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1051 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Texas


His throat as dry as dirt after walking all morning across the south Texas
desert, Juan Antonio Alvarado Morales knelt beside a shrunken pond, its water
stagnant and green.

The rotting carcass of a wild hog lay on the chalky bank. Juan tried to ignore
it. He was thirsty. And this was water, no matter how putrid. He drank deeply.

He doused his head, filled his plastic water jug and continued the journey he
and three other illegal immigrants and their guide had started by swimming
across the Rio Grande that morning.

Falling ill

The temperature quickly rose above 100. Dust kicked up with Juan's every step,
caking his throat. He took another swig of the murky water. Soon, he was
vomiting. His head pounded and his legs cramped, but he trudged on, through
miles of prickly chaparral. He began to lag behind.

"Give me a chance to rest!" the 35-year-old implored his companions.

"No, you have to keep up!" the guide shouted back.

The group struggled on to a livestock tank half-filled with water. As in the
pond hours earlier, the water was green. Again, the men drank it. But this time,
Juan couldn't go on.

"Are you going to get up and walk," the guide yelled, "or stay here and die?"

$400 trip

Juan, who had paid $400 to make this trip across the desolate border country,
who had promised his wife and two children he would find work here and afford
them a better life, heard himself reply, "I don't care anymore."

He lay there beside the trough and watched the men disappear.

They left him for dead, but Juan would not die.

So far this year, ranchers and border patrol agents have found the bodies of 50
illegal immigrants in Texas.

"We'll find skulls out there and won't find the rest of them," said Daniel
Perales, field operations supervisor for the border patrol in Laredo.

Often bodies are found where they fell after wandering lost and alone.
Sometimes, they have been pitifully tended to. A woman in her 20s was found last
year along a fence line, her arms folded across her chest, a Bible tucked in her
hands, a T-shirt covering her face.

Earlier this month, a 13-year-old boy traveling with a group of immigrants near
Falfurrias, Texas, was too dehydrated to keep up. One cousin remained at his
side while another found a windmill and spelled out a large "S.O.S." on the
ground with mesquite branches. No one saw the appeal for help. By the time the
cousin reached the highway two days later, the boy was dead.

A buzzard circling overhead led searchers to the body.

Most of the immigrants aren't prepared for the rough conditions. Many wear dark
clothing, believing they will better elude authorities at night. But light
colors are cooler. They bring more food than water, when it is the water they
cannot do without.

Juan's thirst tormented him, so he kept dipping into the pool to quench it.

He considered building a campfire as a distress signal, but he didn't have the
strength. He carried cans of beans, chilies and corn, but he had no appetite. He
finally mustered the energy to climb into the tepid tank and dunk himself. He
hoped the fever would leave him, but it didn't.

He dragged himself out of the water and settled in the meager shade of a
mesquite, more a bush than a tree. He lay down and closed his eyes.

He prayed that Border Patrol agents -- whom he had always feared as captors --
would now become his saviors.

It was still light when he was startled awake by a group of six men, illegal
immigrants like himself who stopped to drink.

Familiar face

Juan looked twice. Could it be true? He knew one of them. His name was Noel.
They had worked together as welders at a textile factory in his hometown of
Monclova in northern Mexico.

"Come on," Noel urged him. "Why don't you walk? If you stay here, you'll die.
I'll help you."

But Juan's legs were numb. He simply couldn't walk.

This time, Juan's companions didn't leave. Noel and another man lifted him from
the dusty earth. Draping Juan's limp arms over their shoulders, they dragged him
north.

They walked into the night, over hills and dry riverbeds. But Juan, a slightly
built man, couldn't eat a bite. He was still vomiting. And when they bedded down
for the night under the stars, he couldn't sleep.

The next day, they started again. At times, Noel alone would carry Juan on his
back. A car had waited ahead for the six men now traveling together. But Juan
had slowed them down, and they missed their pickup.

Another night and another day passed. The sun beat down. Temperatures rose: 107,
108, 110. Juan's face and arms turned maroon.

"I can't stand it anymore," he whispered.

"We're almost there," Noel replied, his constant refrain.

Juan couldn't think straight anymore. How long had he been out here? Two days?
Three? Five? He feared he would never see Minerva, his wife, never see Juanita
or Alphonse again. His daughter was 12, his son just 11.

That was last Tuesday, four days after Juan had crossed the Rio Grande.

That afternoon, he and the others finally made it to Highway 83, some 30 miles
north of their crossing point and about 35 miles northwest of Laredo.

Rancher Lynn Clapp was driving by when he saw the men flagging him down.

"When you see them in the middle of the road, you know they're desperate," Clapp
said. He called the Border Patrol.

Agent Rudolfo Curiel was first to stop. Juan lay limp under a tree at roadside.
The others picked him up and rushed him to the truck.

Curiel offered him water and placed an ice pack on his head. An ambulance took
him to Doctors' Hospital where he was treated for severe dehydration and kidney
failure.

From his hospital bed Wednesday, Juan recounted his story of survival.

Better in Mexico

"You get a lot of ambition. You get somewhat greedy and you come over," he said
in a soft voice. "I might earn just a little in Mexico, but it's better to stay
over there."

The Mexican Consulate will help him return to his family in Monclova.

As for the men who saved Juan? They were taken into custody, given showers and a
meal and deported back to Mexico.

"They are good people," Juan said.

The nurse brought Juan's first meal in four days: peaches, rice and beans. He
reached for a cup of water instead. Through a straw, he took a long drink, then
asked for more.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Webb County sheriff's investigator Alberto Pena, left, and Border Patrol agent
William Hollon examine clothing found with human remains 30 miles north of the
U.S.-Mexico border, near Laredo, Texas, on Friday. So far this year, ranchers
and Border Patrol agents have found the bodies of 50 illegal immigrants in
Texas.
[980728 FR 11A 1]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A skull lies in a remote area near Laredo, Texas. The remains were spotted from
the air and ground agents moved in to recover them Friday.
[980728 FR 11A 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 25, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL MIGRANT PERISHES IN DESERT WOMAN WAS AMONG 10-12 SMUGGLED INTO U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: EL CENTRO


Another illegal immigrant has died crossing the Imperial Valley desert near the
Salton Sea and the Chocolate Mountain Naval Aerial Gunnery Range.

A 27-year-old woman died Monday when she collapsed near the Cochella Canal,
about 150 miles east of San Diego, said Tom Wacker, chief of the U.S. Border
Patrol office at El Centro.

The woman was a part of a larger group of about 10 to 12 illegal immigrants who
crossed into the United States from Mexico on Saturday night, he said.

"Apparently, from what we got, they were to pay smugglers $1,000 each when
arriving in Los Angeles," Wacker said.

When she became ill, possibly from hunger and heat, several people lagged behind
to stay with her, at times carrying her. The rest of the group moved ahead
without them, Wacker said.

When she collapsed shortly after midnight, some of the group went to get help
from the military authorities at the bombing range.

She was given CPR by military authorities until paramedics from nearby Niland
arrived. They tried unsuccessfully to revive her; she was pronounced dead at
1:40 a.m.

An autopsy was planned for today. The woman's identity was not released by
authorities so that relatives could be notified.

Five immigrants were arrested Monday and returned to Mexico. Based on interviews
with them, border agents learned the group made arrangements with a smuggler in
Tijuana and crossed the border at Calexico. They were picked up by a sedan and
pickup truck, and driven into the desert at night. They were dropped off at some
point to wait out the day, picked up again at sundown and driven farther into
the desert, avoiding the Highway 111 checkpoint, Wacker said.

Ten people, who were part of a group that illegally entered the United States
from Mexico on June 30, died from heat exhaustion and dehydration crossing the
desert near the Salton Sea. Seven of the bodies were discovered Aug. 13 under a
cedar tree.

Wacker said that despite the deaths, border agents continue to arrest large
groups of illegal border crossers.

"It doesn't seem too many people were deterred by what happened," he said.

Meanwhile, a van carrying 26 illegal immigrants crashed through an Interstate 8
checkpoint at Pine Valley and stopped about 60 miles later when it rammed into a
car near El Cajon.

Border Patrol spokeswoman Gloria Chavez said agents decided not to chase the van
when it broke through the checkpoint at 6:10 a.m. Monday.

However, the van later crashed at El Cajon, injuring a woman and one of the
illegal immigrants. Both were treated at a hospital and released.

Chavez said the van driver was allegedly a smuggler. He was detained pending
federal charges while the illegal immigrants were returned to Mexico, she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 31, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FIGHTER'S FUNERAL FRIENDS REMEMBER PROP. 187 CO-AUTHOR HAROLD EZELL, FORMER INS
DIRECTOR, FIERCELY BATTLED ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: GARDEN GROVE


The late Harold Ezell, a fierce and controversial opponent of illegal
immigration, probably finds heaven to his liking because of its tough border
controls, a friend said.

During his eulogy at Ezell's funeral service Saturday, the Rev. Jim Swanson
joked that the former U.S. immigration official must have had his identity
checked before entering the Pearly Gates and thought: "Thank God I'm finally in
a place where there are no illegals."

Ezell, a former Western regional director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, died Tuesday after a three-month battle with liver cancer. He was 61.

He co-authored Proposition 187, the state measure that sought to eliminate
publicly funded education and most health-care benefits for undocumented
immigrants. The controversial proposal prompted many to see Ezell as an enemy of
immigrants.

"He was scorned by a few. And I feel sorry for those people because they never
knew what he was all about," Bill King, who worked with Ezell at the INS, said
during services at the Crystal Cathedral.

"There was no room in Harold's heart for racism -- it was too full of love,"
said Danny Darling, an Argentine who moved to the United States nine years ago.

At one point, nearly 30 immigrants who said they were helped by Ezell stood and
applauded.

Ezell ran the Western region of the INS from 1983 to 1989, when he retired to
run an immigration consulting business.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
INS agent Carl Williams videotapes the funeral of Harold Ezell at the Crystal
Cathedral in Garden Grove on Saturday. Ezell died Tuesday after a three-month
battle with liver cancer.
[980831 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 2, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FIVE DIE AFTER ENTERING U.S. ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 203 words

DATELINE: EL CENTRO


At least five illegal immigrants have died the past few days while crossing the
Imperial County desert east of San Diego, including a woman apparently beaten by
a smuggler.

The latest body was found Monday after the Imperial County Sheriff's Department
received a report that six immigrants were in need of help at Plaster City near
the Salton Sea.

A dispatcher said one man was dead and five other people needed medical help.

Over the weekend, two people were found floating in the All American Canal near
Calexico, including a Honduran woman who was allegedly beaten to death by a
smuggler Friday.

The woman's sister told Border Patrol agents she heard screaming and saw her
sister being pulled into the canal by a smuggler, spokesman Steve Martinez said.

The other two people apparently died of heat exposure.

Chief Deputy Coroner Jesse Altamirano said the body of one of the men was found
just north of Bombay Beach.

The 24-year-old man was found face-down near a road; footprints of several
people were leading to and from the body, Altamirano said. Authorities believe
the man was traveling with other illegal immigrants when he died and they laid
him near a road so someone would find him.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 21, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SOME ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS STAY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 88 words


More than a quarter of non-Mexican illegal immigrants who are caught in south
Texas are allowed to stay because the U.S. Border Patrol doesn't have enough
space to detain them, the Houston Chronicle reported Sunday. Chief Joe Garza,
who oversees the McAllen Border Patrol sector at the southern tip of Texas,
noted that 96 percent of undocumented immigrants in his region are Mexican, who
can be returned easily across the border. That is standard procedure for people
with no criminal record who agree to return voluntarily.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 25, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OFFICIALS SAY THEY'RE SQUEEZED BY INITIATIVES COUNTIES ON BORDER HIT HARD

BYLINE: MICHELLE WILLIAMS, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: EL CENTRO


Pathologist John Eisele pulled back the white sheet covering the frail, tan body
of a young Mexican woman.

Sterile precision tools lined-up on a metal tray awaited his hands as he
prepared for yet another autopsy on an illegal immigrant who died crossing the
treacherous Imperial County terrain at the Mexico border.

His workroom was a table in the embalming room of Frye Mortuary, where he and
two other pathologists take turns working every Tuesday and Saturday for
Imperial County, which cannot afford its own morgue or coroner, but increasingly
needs the contracted services.

From January until mid-September, 93 people died crossing the canals and desert
of this rural county tucked in the southeastern corner of California. That's
nearly twice the deaths and double the financial burden that the county
experienced last year.

"Our case load drastically jumped this year," said Ralph Smith, coroner's
investigator for the Imperial County Sheriff's Department. "All Operation
Gatekeeper did was funnel the problem from San Diego to Imperial County, and
we're just starting to see the effects."

Operation Gatekeeper was a federal program initiated in October 1994 by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Its goal was to stop the flow of illegal
immigration into San Diego County by doubling the number of patrol agents and
push the traffic east to more dangerous routes that migrants were less likely to
try.

It didn't work. Like squeezing a tube of toothpaste, the restricted flow to the
west caused a surge to the east, exploding in Imperial County, about 120 miles
east of San Diego.

Border agents apprehend an average of 1,000 illegal immigrants a day in Imperial
County and they rescue dozens who run short of water or energy during their
journey.

"We got all of that on top of our regular workload," Smith said. "We've really
been hit hard and there doesn't seem to be any relief in sight."

Imperial County is not alone in its struggle. There are 24 counties along the
border, stretching 1,700 miles from San Diego to Brownsville, Texas. They
encompass rural and urban communities, but what they share is a transient
population of Mexican nationals who are using more public services than the
counties can afford: jails, hospitals, courts and foster care, to name a few.

San Diego County is one of the wealthiest counties along the border, but it's
also one of the hardest hit. County Supervisor Dianne Jacob estimated San Diego
spends $230 million annually in association with illegal immigration; about $50
million for health care.

Providing the services to poor people who need them is not the issue, they say.
The problem is that they are raising taxes and cutting programs to their own
residents to pay for the federal government's border policies without
reimbursement.

"We shouldn't be faced with this problem," said County Judge Charles Mattox of
El Paso, Texas, where property taxes were raised this year to offset illegal
immigration costs, an estimated $14 million last year. "It's a U.S. problem to
enforce our border, not a local responsibility."

Amy Byrd, spokeswoman for the 85-bed Pioneers Memorial Hospital in Brawley, one
of Imperial County's two hospitals, agreed. Last year, the hospital had over $2
million in bad debts, care given to people who couldn't pay their bills, mainly
illegal immigrants. That included $226,000 for obstetric care for women who
crossed the border to give birth.

The hospital had only tracked obstetric care for illegal immigrants until the
Imperial County Board of Supervisors asked 12 departments to account for all
costs that were not reimbursable starting in July. The request came after the
bodies of 10 illegal immigrants were found in one week in the desert, taxing the
county in staff overtime, ambulance service and autopsy costs.

"The costs were something we'd always lived with, but now it's becoming
unlivable," said Tom Veysey, vice chairman of the Imperial County board. "We
needed to see where our money was being spent so we could start addressing the
problem."

Then there are the migrants who need medical help after they suffer dehydration
in the desert, lose limbs when they try to jump moving rail cars headed north to
Los Angeles or get injured when a smuggler's van crashes because of the shifting
weight of all the migrants on board.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Imperial County Deputy Coroner Jesse Altamirano displays fliers that warn about
dangers of crossing the border from Mexico.
[980925 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 5, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 338 words

* Cuba and the United States agreed Friday to fight together the growing
phenomenon of immigrant smuggling via speedboats that have replaced flimsy rafts
as the main mode of illegal flight from the communist-run island. The problem
figured prominently in a 10th round of migration talks between Havana and
Washington -- a rare area of direct cooperation between the longtime political
foes.

* In Belfast, Northern Ireland, Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams warned that the
peace accord "could bleed to death" if the stalemate over a compromise
government is not quickly overcome. Moderate Catholic politicians joined the
Irish Republican Army-allied party in blaming the impasse on Protestant leader
David Trimble, who flew Friday to Washington denying a crisis looms. Both Sinn
Fein and moderate Catholics accused the Ulster Unionist Party leader of
misleading British Prime Minister Tony Blair during talks between the north's
Catholic politicians and the Ulster Unionists.

* Hundreds of lawyers marched to a Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, courthouse to support
attorney Zainur Zakaria who faces imprisonment for contempt of court. Zainur had
been defending Anwar Ibrahim, ex-deputy prime minister on trial on four counts
of abuse of power. Zainur was sentenced Monday to three months in prison after
he refused to apologize for accusing two prosecutors in Anwar's trial of trying
to get a potential witness to lie.

* Thousands of anti-riot police patrolled Nigerian streets and borders in
preparation for today's elections, seen as key to the country's planned
transition from military rule to democracy.

* With the Russian ruble tumbling and President Boris Yeltsin's health
uncertain, the Clinton administration is sending economics and foreign-policy
specialists to Moscow for consultations with Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov.

* Caribbean troops will be rappelling from U.S. helicopters into dense Puerto
Rican jungles this weekend, preparing for a mission to destroy marijuana on the
island nation of St. Vincent.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 9, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEDS FLUSH WITH CASH, BUT INS OFFICES SQUEEZED CUTBACKS COULD MEAN LONGER WAITS
ON CITIZENSHIP APPLICATIONS IN S.J.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 739 words


Federal tax revenues are flowing like beer in Munich. Political support for
deporting illegal immigrants is at an all-time high. But San Jose's immigration
office and others across the country are strapped for cash.

Despite the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service's record $3.9 billion
budget, local immigration officials are being forced to make deep cuts. The
likely result: Fewer illegal immigrants will be deported and lengthy citizenship
lines will get longer.

The San Jose office has wiped out its clerical overtime budget, which had been
helping it dig out of a two-year backlog of citizenship applications. INS
investigators are being ordered not to drive if the trip will burn too much gas.
And use of cell phones and pagers is being discouraged in favor of
walkie-talkies.

"We've cut back to the bare essentials." said Lois Camille Chappell, head of the
San Jose office.

She and other local INS officials -- who had expected flush 1999 budgets -- are
scratching their heads.

"We don't know how long the cuts are going to last and what the impact will be
over the next year, but the cuts are severe," said Mark Riordan, acting director
of the San Francisco district, which includes Santa Clara and 47 other
California counties.

INS officials in Washington said Friday the budget crunch is serious but
predicted the fiscal situation will improve within a couple of weeks.

"We're going to have to tighten our belts, but critical operations will be
funded," said Maria Cardona, INS chief public affairs officer.

She emphasized that the amount of money field offices will get this year remains
uncertain. "There still isn't a final allocation," she said.

An internal INS memo obtained by the Mercury News cites several reasons for the
crunch. In the Dec. 23 memo, Michael Pearson, executive associate commissioner,
points to "mandatory" expenses that have "inflated at a much faster rate than
forecasted."

Rents and telecommunication costs, for example, were up 31 percent over the
previous year, Pearson told regional directors. In addition, he said, overtime
costs rose more than 22 percent from fiscal year 1997 to 1998.

Other reasons include a dip in applications for citizenship, Cardona said. And
because staffing levels have risen quickly in recent months, much of the INS's
nearly 20 percent budget increase from the previous year was gobbled up by
personnel costs, she said.

The shortfall has baffled congressional staffers, some of whom were briefed
Friday by INS officials.

"The general consensus is we're totally puzzled at what's happening," said Jim
Wilon, counsel to the House immigration subcommittee. "This is really a surprise
to us."

The hardest-hit area of the INS has been the investigative branch, whichdeals
with everything from immigrant smuggling to workplace enforcement of immigration
laws.

Although the INS will continue to emphasize deportation of "criminal aliens,"
other deportations are bound to take a lower priority, local officials say.

Ironically, the budget issue surfaced on the day that the INS issued a news
release boasting that 171,154 illegal immigrants -- about a third of them
criminals -- had been deported in the fiscal year that ended in September.
That's up 50 percent from 114,386 in 1997, the INS noted.

Chappell, head of the San Jose office, said her bosses have told her to stop
overtime for clerks who handle naturalization applications -- a move that
threatens to increase the wait for citizenship. The wait is now two years -- one
of the longest in the country.

The belt-tightening came at a time when the San Jose office was finally starting
to make progress in trimming the lines.

"We were kind of holding our own," Chappell said. "This is totally confusing."

But much of the concern, INS officials in Washington contend, is simply
over-reaction to the Dec. 23 memo.

"People saw that preliminary memo and took it to mean that their budgets are
being completely cut," Cardona said. "It's not a done deal. We still have pots
of money."

The memo, she said, was merely intended to warn local officials that 1999 would
be a tight year.

"Last year people in the field were able to buy great new gadgets and toys that
they won't be able to buy this year," Cardona said. "Frankly, the stuff we have
told them to do is what any prudent manager would do. We told them you should
watch cell phone usage, gasoline usage."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 9, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATIONS HIT RECORD HIGH FOR FIFTH YEAR

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 135 words


Deportations nationwide surged almost 50 percent in the past fiscal year, driven
largely by rising numbers of expulsions at the U.S.-Mexico border in San Diego
and elsewhere, according to Immigration and Naturalization Service statistics
released Friday. The increase marks the fifth consecutive year of record-setting
deportation totals. While the Clinton administration has touted its efforts to
expel criminals, the new numbers show that nearly 70 percent of the 171,154
illegal immigrants deported last year had no criminal record.

Those expelled include illegal immigrants arrested at border stations and
airports, and in growing numbers of INS raids on homes and work sites. Critics
say the aggressive tactics are sowing fear and separating families, but federal
officials defend the policy.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 22, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COUNTY RECEIVES FUNDS FOR JAILING COSTS

BYLINE: From Mercury News Staff Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 170 words


Santa Clara County has received $3.8 million in federal funds to help cover the
cost of jailing undocumented immigrants convicted of felony or misdemeanor
offenses.

The funding from the U.S. Justice Department's State Criminal Alien Assistance
Program is based on information county officials provided on the number and
costs of housing criminals for the fiscal year.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, said Thursday that the grant will help ease the
financial strain on the county's government.

"This grant will save money from the county general fund that can be put to good
use in prevention and children's health programs," she said.

An amendment to the Immigration Act of 1996 allows counties to apply for partial
reimbursement of the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants.

Nationwide, the Justice Department will distribute $575 million under the
program, with California receiving the largest award, $244 million, followed by
New York at $96 million and Texas at $53 million.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Community In Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 6, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

162 FOUND LIVING IN SQUALID HOUSE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HAD COME FROM MEXICO,
OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The U.S. Border Patrol on Friday arrested 162 suspected illegal immigrants who
were believed to have been smuggled across the Mexico border and were living
together in a four-bedroom house with no working bathrooms or furniture.

"The conditions were deplorable and dirty," said Bill Strassberger, spokesman
for the western division of the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.
"There was trash everywhere, only mattresses on the floor, no furniture. The
sinks and tubs were overrunning and unusable."

The Chula Vista division of the Border Patrol received an anonymous tip Friday
that there was a large group of illegal immigrants living in the
1,500-square-foot home on Newton Avenue just north of National City,
Strassberger said.

Agents found two men in the back yard of the home and questioned them. After
determining they were illegal immigrants, the agents went inside the house and
found the others, authorities said. There were 150 men and 10 women but no
children. In all, 162 people were arrested.

Strassberger said smugglers often use "drop houses" to store peoplewhile they
wait for money or a move to their final destination. He said they sometimes
sleep in shifts and keep quiet to remain undetected.

"We always see numbers in the double digits, but nothing like this in a long
time in San Diego," he said.

The INS is investigating who owns the house and how long it has been used by
smugglers.

"Getting this information is usually difficult because these people are warned
not to talk to authorities," Strassberger said.

The immigrants were booked at the Chula Vista border station and most were
returned to Mexico. A few were residents of Brazil and will be jailed until
deportation.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 11, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO BORDER POLICY COMPLAINT FACES U.S.

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 89 words


An international human-rights complaint filed Wednesday asserts that U.S.
policies for its border with Mexico have caused the deaths of hundreds of
illegal immigrants who cross the border in the California desert, where they
freeze or die of thirst.

The complaint, lodged in Washington by the American Civil Liberties Union before
the Organization of American States, argues that new fences as well as more
vigorous enforcement by the border patrol have led illegal immigrants to take
dangerous routes, away from border cities.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 12, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WIN REPRIEVE IN COURT INJUNCTION: APPEALS PANEL UPHOLDS
RULING THAT LETS THEM STAY IN U.S. TO FIGHT DEPORTATION.

BYLINE: BOB EGELKO, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Thousands of illegal immigrants who are longtime residents of nine Western
states can remain in the United States while fighting deportation orders, a
federal appeals court ruled Thursday.

In a 2-1 decision, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a federal
judge's 1997 injunction blocking deportation of the immigrants during a suit
over a new federal law severely limiting eligibility for future legal residency.

Thursday's ruling probably affects several thousand immigrants, who have all
lived in the United States for more than seven years and claim they are eligible
for suspension of deportation orders, said Marc Van Der Hout, a National Lawyers
Guild attorney representing the immigrants.

Since the case started in 1997, Congress has changed the law to exempt
immigrants from Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala, Cuba and some Eastern
European countries from the limits at issue in the case.

The ruling applies only to the circuit, which covers nine Western states.
Similar deportations have taken place elsewhere in the country except in the
Atlanta-based 11th Circuit, where an injunction was issued on different grounds,
Van Der Hout said.

A telephone call to the Immigration and Naturalization Service was not returned.

An illegal immigrant who has lived in the U.S. continuously for seven years can
get a deportation order suspended by showing good moral character and the
prospect of extreme hardship if deported. Suspension of deportation makes an
immigrant eligible for legal residency.

A 1996 federal law, effective in April 1997, placed a 4,000 annual limit on the
number of immigrants eligible for suspension of deportation and transfer to
legal residency status.

The limit covers the period from one October to the next. After 3,900
deportation orders were suspended between October 1996 and February 1997, the
chief federal immigration judge and the chairman of the Board of Immigration
Appeals ordered immigration courts not to approve any more suspensions until at
least April 1997.

The new law also made immigrants ineligible for suspension if they had been
given notice of deportation before attaining seven years of U.S. residency.
After the 9th Circuit ruled that the new standard applied only to post-April
1997 deportation orders, thousands of immigrants rushed to have their suspension
cases heard before April, only to be thwarted by the immigration officials'
orders.

U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken of Oakland issued an injunction in March 1997
requiring immigration courts to keep their doors open to the suspension cases
until the legality of the orders was decided. She said serious questions had
been raised about whether the officials exceeded their authority or violated the
immigrants' rights.

At least one immigrant won a suspension of deportation under the ruling -- a
15-year-old girl from Nicaragua who was able to get treatment for her cancer in
the United States -- but Van Der Hout said most of the suspension requests were
routinely denied because of immigration courts' interpretation of the new law.
Deportations remain barred by the injunction.

After the law took effect in April 1997, the Clinton administration's Justice
Department challenged the injunction under another new provision, which bars
courts from even considering immigrants' appeals of decisions to begin
deportation proceedings.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 22, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A LONELY LOOKOUT CUTBACKS MEAN ONE AGENT RUNS BORDER PATROL'S DUBLIN OFFICE

BYLINE: DAVID KLIGMAN, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN


Tom Madden, a burly 20-year veteran at the U.S. Border Patrol, used to spend his
time chasing down tips from citizens and visiting construction sites and bus
terminals to round up illegal immigrants.

Now, except for a secretary, Madden sits alone at his desk, surrounded by empty
cubicles and typewriters hidden by dusty black covers.

With the Border Patrol devoting 2,200 agents to San Diego alone, agents have
become a rarity in Northern California. Only 24 agents -- down from 65 a few
years ago -- must cover nearly all of the state north of Los Angeles.

Madden is responsible for a 300-mile stretch of coastline as well as inland
areas from Oregon through wine country to the booming suburbs east of San
Francisco Bay.

"I'm not able to do as much for the public as I would like to do because of the
limited manpower. Lack of manpower, actually," said Madden, who with his green
uniform and folksy manner seems straight out of a 1950s TV western.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner announced Wednesday the authorization of 1,000
new Border Patrol agents, although most will be sent to the Arizona and Texas
borders.

That may not help Northern California. Just last month, police in Dublin pulled
over a van that had run a stop sign. Inside were 12 illegal immigrants.

If the van had been traveling in San Diego, Tucson, or anywhere along the
U.S.-Mexican border, deportation would have been automatic. But it was a
Saturday, Madden's day off. And with no 24-hour detention cell for illegal
immigrants in Northern California, police had no choice but to free the
immigrants.

Nine-county span

Such occurrences are common, Madden said.

He used to lead a five-man patrol at the Livermore Sector office responsible for
Del Norte, Humboldt, Trinity, Mendocino, Lake, Sonoma, Solano, Contra Costa and
Alameda counties.

His last colleague was transferred in January. In May, he, too, could be gone.
Livermore Sector Acting Chief Robert Logazino said Madden will probably be
promoted to an administrative job, and there are no immediate plans to replace
him.

"Without the agents here, we're totally reactive," said Madden, who has his
hands full just doing paperwork and shuttling prisoners from the local jail. "We
have no proactive enforcement at all here. It's very difficult to work with just
one person."

Madden and his fellow agents once traveled regularly to farms in Mendocino
County and other northern parts of the state, but he has hasn't been there in
two years.

Of California's estimated 2 million illegal immigrants, as many as 400,000 lived
in Northern California in 1997, according to projections by San Diego economist
Enrico Marcelli of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies.

There were 626 illegal immigrants deported last year in Madden's nine-county
coverage area, nearly 40 percent less than in 1994, but that doesn't necessarily
mean there are fewer undocumented immigrants in the region. Asked to explain the
drop, Madden simply said: "No people."

Every weeknight, an INS bus leaves Dublin for Los Angeles. It seats 66people and
is almost always filled with the illegal immigrants captured that day.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which oversees the Border Patrol,
said the deployment issue is complicated and won't be fully resolved until the
agency's reorganization is approved by Congress.

Flocking south

INS spokeswoman Virginia Kice stressed the importance of Operation Gatekeeper,
which the agency launched more than four years ago to focus on catching illegal
immigrants entering from Mexico.

"While we've seen attrition in Northern California, we have had a huge infusion
of new agents along the southern border," she said. "If we can deter people from
entering the border, they won't end up in Northern California."

Also, about 160 special INS agents throughout Northern California compensate
somewhat for the lack of Border Patrol presence, said Kice, stressing that the
INS agents have the same authority, even if they don't wear Border Patrol
uniforms.

"The public should not be left with the impression that we are not doing the
job," she said. "We just have other officers who are doing the job."

But Raul Cano, a special agent based in San Francisco, said it is all they can
do to keep up with their own workload, which includes helping to prosecute
criminal undocumented immigrants, solving drug and organized crime cases and
investigating workplaces and counterfeit documents.

"It's kind of like a Catch-22 situation," Cano said. "They need as many
uniformed officers on the border, but part of the mission necessitates having
uniformed officers in the interior."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SUSAN RAGAN -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
With the U.S. Border Patrol devoting 2,200 agents to San Diego alone, agent Tom
Madden, at work in Dublin, has become a rarity in Northern California.
[990222 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 16, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICER HELD IN SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 75 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


A 12-year-veteran of the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been
arrested on charges that she smuggled an illegal immigrant from Canada into the
United States.

Detention enforcement officer Paula Jesmer, 34, was indicted last week by a
grand jury in Boston and arrested Monday. Federal prosecutors say that while
working at an INS center for detainees in 1996, Jesmer got to know a Portuguese
citizen and drove him across the U.S. border.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 11, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL VAN CRASHES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 147 words


A U.S. Border Patrol van carrying 13 illegal immigrants to Calexico overturned
Friday in Riverside County when it collided with a woman's car.

Authorities with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said the
collision occurred when the woman apparently ran a stop sign as the van entered
an intersection on Highway 86.

The van overturned upon impact, injuring at least three immigrants. They were
treated at a hospital and released. The woman, whose name was not released, was
flown to a hospital in El Centro. The Border Patrol agent was hospitalized with
chest pains.

The van, however, was not overloaded as was the case two weeks ago, an INS
spokesman said. A Border Patrol agent and three illegal immigrants died when his
Ford Bronco toppled down a hillside in eastern San Diego County. He was carrying
seven passengers, three over the suggested limit.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 17, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EXODUS OF HURRICANE VICTIMS EXPECTED TO ATTEMPT U.S. TREK DEADLIEST SUMMER YET
FEARED NEAR U.S. BORDERS

BYLINE: RICARDO SANDOVAL, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 746 words

DATELINE: MATAMOROS, Mexico


With more than a half-million Central Americans eager to flee their
hurricane-ravaged homelands, immigration experts fear the deadliest summer yet
for undocumented immigrants trying to cross into the United States through the
blazing deserts of the Southwest.

A new survey by the Gallup Organization of Costa Rica for the U.S. Information
Agency reports that 600,000 adults in Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala and El
Salvador are willing to brave the treacherous, 1,000-mile journey through Mexico
to find work in the United States.

The USIA commissioned the survey to try to gauge the potential impact of last
fall's Hurricane Mitch on the United States. Gallup did in-person interviews
Feb. 20-25 with a representative sample of 1,000 people over age 18 in those
countries.

The survey's authors said, however, that many won't make it to the United States
because the journey is difficult and costly and there are tough anti-immigrant
patrols by police to their north in Guatemala, Mexico and the United States.

Still, experts believe many will try, because 292,000 have already left the four
countries since Hurricane Mitch struck in late October, according to the survey.
Most are said to have headed for the United States.

The steep rise in emigration appears to be confirmed by what Central Americans
who are now illegally crossing the U.S. border say about neighbors and friends
back home.

"Sure, they're coming," said Jose Javier Dominguez Nolasco, 27, a coffee grower
from northern Honduras being detained in Brownsville, Texas, since he crossed
the Rio Grande last week. "I don't know a family in my town that is not planning
to send someone up here. We lost everything. . . . That's why I came here."

The survey comes as U.S. immigration officials are having increasing success in
closing off the southernmost part of the U.S.-Mexico border. The area around the
Texas cities of Brownsville and McAllen is the nearest crossing point into the
United States for Central American immigrants. Nationwide, 6,555 non-Mexican
entrants were captured by the U.S. Border Patrol in the three months that ended
Jan. 31, about 46 percent more than last year.

The Border Patrol's clampdown in Texas is pushing illegal immigrants westward,
while a similar press around San Diego is propelling them to the east -- toward
more-remote desert regions in which the Mexican government estimates that 350
undocumented immigrants died last year.

Charles Roth, a lawyer with Proyecto Libertad, an immigrant-rights group in
Brownsville, worries that the migrating Central Americans are less savvy about
the dangers than Mexican migrants and thus probably more willing to try to cross
the desert on foot in summer.

"If the (U.S. government) report becomes reality, we could see thedeadliest
summer yet along the border," Roth said.

Soon after Mitch killed an estimated 9,000 people and left as many as 500,000
homeless in Central America, an estimated 3.5 percent of Honduras' adult
population -- 106,000 people -- left, according to relatives participating in
the USIA survey. An additional 79,000 left Nicaragua.

Thousands were apprehended at the U.S.-Mexico border. But those who arrived
before Jan. 1 won permission for temporary stays from the Clinton
administration.

A $350 million U.S. aid package for hurricane victims aimed in part at keeping
Central Americans from emigrating clearly has not been enough, said Claudia
Gonzalez, a paralegal who counsels immigrants detained by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service at the Port Isabel Processing Center near Brownsville.
The facility now holds about 500 Central Americans.

"Many who have come since Jan. 1 think they'll get the same right to stay and
work for a while," Gonzalez said. "I believe the government will have to extend
them protective status. These are clearly victims of Mitch who've lost
everything. They have nothing and even their own countries don't want them
back."

Undocumented immigrants crossing the river from Matamoros, Mexico, to
Brownsville are met by a 10-mile string of powerful floodlights, observation
towers and fast boats piloted by agents wearing night-vision goggles.

Perhaps as a result, Border Patrol agents near here say they're already hearing
of immigrants classified as "Other Than Mexican" caught trying to cross in west
Texas and New Mexico. Traditionally, most undocumented Central Americans simply
waded across the Rio Grande here at Matamoros.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: 'I don't know a family in my town that is not planning to send someone up
here.'
-- Jose Javier
Dominguez Nolasco
[990417 FR 4A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 27, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 ACCEPTED FOR MEDIATION APPELLATE COURT WILL TRY TO HELP SIDES REACH
COMPROMISE ON MEASURE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 282 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A federal appeals court Monday granted Gov. Gray Davis' request for mediation in
the dispute over Proposition 187, the divisive 1994 measure barring illegal
immigrants from attending public school or receiving other state benefits. The
decision means a mediator will try to get both sides to reach a compromise over
Proposition 187. Mediation is not binding.

Proposition 187, which bars illegal immigrants from receiving public schooling
and non-emergency health care, was approved by 59 percent of the voters, but
virtually all of it has been blocked by the federal courts from taking effect.

Davis, a Democrat who took office earlier this year, opposed Proposition 187.
His predecessor, Republican Pete Wilson, backed it.

Sidestepping a politically hot issue, Davis proposed that the dispute be
submitted to mediation, a process that is typically used to resolve matters such
as attorney fees and other disputes involving money.

Monday, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals' chief mediator said the case was
selected for the court's mediation program.

Davis' decision to seek mediation has been criticized by backers of Proposition
187, who say the state has a duty to defend it. Some of the civil rights groups
challenging the measure have also been critical, saying the constitutionality of
a law cannot be resolved by mediation.

A lower-court judge ruled that the core provisions of Proposition 187 amount to
an attempt to regulate immigration, an area that is the exclusive responsibility
of the federal government. In addition, the ban on publicschooling was found to
conflict with a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that struck down an identical
prohibition in Texas.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 15, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AGENT MAY HAVE SHOT AT IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A Border Patrol agent allegedly fired a pellet gun Friday at three illegal
immigrants, capsizing their raft and possibly causing one to drown in the
All-American Canal in Imperial County, authorities said.

The FBI investigated the report as the Border Patrol and the Imperial County
Sheriff's Department searched for the purported drowning victim, said Steve
Martinez, an assistant chief patrol agent in the Border Patrol's El Centro
sector.

"The allegations are extremely serious," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the federal agency that oversees the
Border Patrol.

A woman who was caught Friday morning trying to cross the border into Imperial
County told authorities she saw an agent at 3 a.m. fire a pellet gun at a raft,
causing it to flip when three passengers shifted their weight to one side. Only
two of the migrants made it to the concrete bank of the irrigation canal, she
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 13, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS SAYS 3 MEN TRIED TO SELL 20 IMMIGRANTS OFFICIALS SAY SUSPECTS BROUGHT
MEXICANS INTO CENTRAL VALLEY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: STOCKTON


Three people have been accused of smuggling Mexican immigrants into the Central
Valley and then trying to peddle them for $350 apiece.

Agents from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested the three
late last week as they were allegedly trying to sell about 20 immigrants they'd
smuggled into the United States.

The federal agents posed as labor contractors interested in obtaining workers
and lured the three suspects to an address in south Stockton, where they were
arrested. The arrests were the result of a six-month investigation.

Taken into custody were Guadalupe Ponce-Blas, 49, Luis Martinez-Santos, 30, and
Arcadio Martinez-Gregio, 40. They were held for investigation of conspiring to
transport illegal immigrants and transporting illegal immigrants, punishable by
up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine, records show.

Officials with the U.S. Department of Justice said Friday that they don't know
where the three lived before their arrests.

Ponce-Blas is being held in the Sacramento County Jail without bail pending a
detention hearing scheduled for Wednesday. Martinez-Santos and Martinez-Gregio
also are being held in Sacramento pending a hearing Tuesday.

The sting was the first of two major clusters of immigrant-smugglingarrests in
Northern California within a 24-hour period beginning late Thursday night. On
Friday, officers with the California Highway Patrol arrested several men on
charges of transporting illegal immigrants after stopping a truck loaded with
more than a dozen immigrants near Yreka.

Authorities said Ponce-Blas acted as the broker for the 20 laborers, who paid
more than $1,500 apiece to be smuggled into the United States. According to the
U.S. attorney's office, Ponce-Blas arranged Thursday's sale of immigrants with
the undercover agents. Martinez-Santos and Martinez-Gregio allegedly drove the
truck in which the laborers hid while on their way to the Central Valley.

Ponce-Blas reportedly tried to sell the workers to the agents for $350 apiece.
All of the immigrants except for two have been returned to Mexico. The remaining
two are scheduled to testify against the alleged traffickers.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 26, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

23 IMMIGRANTS SAVED IN DESERT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: EL CENTRO


Twenty-three suspected illegal immigrants suffering from severe dehydration were
rescued after their van broke down and they were stranded in a remote desert
section of Imperial County, a Border Patrol spokesman said Friday.

All, including a 14-year-old boy, were taken to hospitals, and several more may
still be wandering the desert, where temperatures have soared above 110 degrees
in recent days, Border Patrol spokesman Henry Rolon said.

"These people were all extremely dehydrated. . . . A few more hours and they
would have been dead," said Oscar Garcia, emergency room manager at Pioneers
Memorial Hospital in Brawley.

This year, 37 people illegally entering the United States have died in or near
Imperial County, Rolon said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 28, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL COULD AID ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DRIVERS WOULD NOT HAVE TO PROVE LEGAL STATUS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1373 words


Don't try telling Reinaldo, a 39-year-old day laborer who lives in San Jose,
that the state of California is soft on undocumented immigrants.

Because the Honduran national is in the country illegally, Reinaldo can't get a
California driver's license. Because he doesn't have a license, he can't get
auto insurance.

No insurance means he risks a minimum $1,350 fine each time his car isstopped.
No license means police can impound or even confiscate his vehicle. The cops
have taken four of his cars in the five years he has lived in California.

But his life could soon take a turn for the better if a contentious bill
repealing a requirement that driver's license applicants prove they're here
legally is signed into law.

"I sure hope it passes," said Reinaldo, who did not give his last name for fear
of deportation, as he and 15 other undocumented day laborers waited for work on
Alum Rock Avenue in East San Jose. "The current law is unjust. It makes it very
difficult for us. We need our cars to go to work."

Many Californians, fed up with illegal immigration, say they have little
sympathy for Reinaldo and the more than 2 million other undocumented immigrants
in the state.

Activists for anti-immigration groups are mobilizing to kill the bill, AB 1463,
sponsored by Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, a Democrat from Los Angeles. The measure,
which narrowly cleared the Assembly earlier this month, will get its first
Senate hearing July 6 in the transportation committee.

Alquist sponsored law

California is one of only a handful of states requiring driver's license
applicants to prove they're in the country legally -- the mandate of a 1993 law
sponsored by former state Sen. Al Alquist. Alquist, a San Jose Democrat, claimed
that illegal immigrants were using driver's licenses as "breeder documents" to
establish "proof" of lawful residency so they could apply for welfare, food
stamps and other benefits available to legal U.S. residents.

As a result of the Alquist law, California is the only state that uses
Immigration and Naturalization Service databases to check immigration status at
local motor-vehicle offices, virtually eliminating the chance that applicants
can pass bogus immigration documents. If the electronic checks fail, the
documents are sent to the INS for verification.

"What the backers of the repeal want is for illegal aliens to have an easy time
of it," said Rick Oltman of San Rafael, who in 1994 led the Northern California
effort to pass Proposition 187, which sought to deny public benefits to illegal
immigrants. A federal judge last year ruled that the measure was
unconstitutional, but Proposition 187 proponents are appealing.

"By giving illegal aliens legal documents, you're giving them the keys to the
kingdom," Oltman said. "You make it harder for them to be detected -- which is
the real goal of this bill. That's anti-American. That's traitorous."

But those who back Cedillo's bill (who include Assemblywoman Elaine Alquist, the
retired senator's wife) say they're just being realists.

They argue that the overwhelming majority of illegal immigrants have no
intention of returning to their native countries. And since so many illegal
immigrants are driving without licenses, they say, the state might as well make
sure that they are road-tested, licensed and insured.

Wants 'safer highways'

"This bill has nothing to do with illegal immigration," said Cedillo, who
represents a predominantly Asian and Latino district. "What I want to do is
create safer highways."

Although it has received little mention in the mainstream press, the bill has
generated intense interest in immigrant communities across the state. Many
Latinos say it's a clear sign that the "anti-immigrant" era of former Gov. Pete
Wilson is over, and that the "Latino-friendly" era of Gov. Gray Davis has begun.

In the cauldron of California immigration politics, though, things are never so
simple. Despite his close political ties with Cedillo, Davis, who has performed
a delicate political dance over the issue of Proposition 187 lawsuits, has taken
no position on the bill.

The bill passed the Assembly on a 41-36 vote, with only Democrats supporting it.
Its fate in the Democratic-controlled Senate is uncertain.

Cedillo's measure is similar to an earlier version of a bill by Sen. Hilda
Solis, D-El Monte. But at a Senate Transportation Committee in April, Solis
agreed to amend her bill, SB 371.

Under her measure, which cleared the Senate, the Department of Motor Vehicles
would still do the electronic checks. But the secondary Immigration and
Naturalization Service verification would occur only if the DMV had reason to
believe submitted documents were fraudulent.

But Cedillo isn't expected to be so accommodating. He and other critics of the
Alquist law say it has driven illegal immigrants further underground and forced
tens of thousands to get behind steering wheels without training or insurance.

"Is it really a good idea to make their lives miserable at the expense of
endangering everybody's life?" asked Angie Wei of the California Immigrant
Welfare Collaborative.

Immigrant-rights advocates say the law has also made it nearly impossible for
undocumented immigrants to open bank accounts or cash checks, making them easy
prey for muggers.

"My focus is on working people," Cedillo said, adding that most undocumented
immigrants "want to be law-abiding. They simply want to get a license and comply
with California law."

Supporters disagree

But supporters of the Alquist law contend that giving illegal immigrants legal
documents is perverse.

"It might be taking the concept of friendliness toward immigrants a little too
far," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies in Washington, D.C., which favors lower immigration levels. "Enforcing
the law doesn't mean that you're anti-immigrant."

Since March 1, 1994, new applicants for licenses and state ID cards have been
asked to present one of two dozen documents -- from passports to birth
certificates to work-authorization cards -- to prove they're in the country
legally.

When the law took effect, the DMV initially saw license applications drop by 3
percent. ID-card applications dropped by a startling 28 percent. Supporters of
the Alquist law say the figures are proof that fraud had been widespread.

In the beginning, department officials say, DMV workers were routinely offered
bribes to accept suspicious documents. When field offices routinely began
photocopying documents, many would-be applicants fled.

DMV officials say that for most people, verifying legal presence is a simple
procedure. But "a small percentage do get snagged" in INS red tape, causing
months of delays in getting a permanent license, said DMV spokesman Evan
Nossoff.

The Teamsters and other labor groups have backed the movement to repeal the law,
as have numerous Asian and Latino ethnic organizations and the American Civil
Liberties Union. So have Japanese business groups, which have complained to
legislators about delays in getting licenses.

Barry Broad, a Sacramento lobbyist for the Teamsters, said the Alquist law has
Orwellian overtones, turning the California license into an "identity card."

"Besides, I just hate all the unstated things surrounding this issue," he said.
"We want to beat up on illegal immigrants, but many industries fundamentally
depend on them, reaping the profits off their labor. California agriculture
would collapse without the exploitation of these people."

Still, Senate passage of Cedillo's bill is anything but assured.

Sen. Betty Karnette, who chairs the transportation committee, said she didn't
want to make any predictions. But she said she would never vote for the bill
unless it's substantially amended.

Karnette, a moderate Democrat from Long Beach, said she voted against
Proposition 187 because she opposed kicking kids out of school and denying
people health care.

"The people in my district, though, don't think illegals should get driver's
licenses," she said. But, Karnette conceded, they also want them to have
insurance.

"I guess," she said with a laugh, "they want people who are illegal to ride the
bus."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: DOCUMENTING RESIDENCY
Since March 1994, the California Department of Motor Vehicles has required
applicants for driver's licenses and state ID cards to show proof they are in
the country legally. Here's how the system works:
* Driver's license or ID applicants must present one of two dozen documents
proving "legal presence." For citizens, this usually means handing over a
certified copy of your birth certificate, naturalization certificate or
passport.
* Non-citizens must present their green cards, visas, border-crossing cards or
other immigration documents. While they wait, a DMV worker will access U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service computers to verify documents. The DMV
uses a computer system called SAVE (Systematic Alien Verification for
Entitlements), developed by the INS to stop illegal immigrants from receiving
public benefits.
* If a name and "alien registration number" don't show up in the INS computer,
an applicant will still be given a temporary license. But a photocopy of
immigration documents will be sent to the DMV's Sacramento headquarters for
further checks. If necessary, the records are sent to the INS for verification.
* In most cases, the INS will do the checks within several weeks. But sometimes
INS backlogs cause months of delays, which means one must keep renewing a
temporary license.
* If the INS can't locate records, the agency will notify the DMV, which will
ask for more information. If applicants choose not to submit more documents, the
process ends there.
* The DMV sends photocopies of unverified documents to the INS. If they appear
fraudulent, the INS sometimes turns them over to its investigators.
Source: Department of Motor Vehicles

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Applicants fill out forms at the DMV office on Alma Avenue in San Jose. The
overhead screen stresses the need for original documents.
[990628 FR 12A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 3, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHINESE IMMIGRANTS HELD BY MEXICAN AUTHORITIES

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


A covert journey that began six weeks ago has ended, for now, in a crowded
gymnasium for 177 suspected Chinese illegal immigrants waiting to hear when they
will be sent back to the homes they left behind.

Mexican authorities this week transferred the 167 young men and boys and 10
women to a heavily guarded municipal gym, where the air is pungent from so many
people sharing the same cramped space.

The immigrants, who authorities believe traveled by ship to the Baja California
coast and landed late last month near the port city of Ensenada, now spend their
days sitting on mattresses pushed together on the floor. Some occasionally play
basketball in a courtyard as Mexican federal police stand guard.

"They are going to be repatriated, but it's a slow process," Ensenada spokesman
Daniel Vargas said Friday.

The immigrants were apprehended in and around Ensenada last weekend as they
waited for an opportunity to cross the border illegally into the United States,
Mexican officials said.

Vargas predicted the immigrants will remain in the gym at least five more days
while the two governments work out the details of repatriation.

Officials from the Chinese consulate in Tijuana and in Mexico City declined to
answer any questions about the immigrants.

Mexican officials say markings on a calendar found with the group indicate they
left China on May 15 and arrived in Ensenada on June 26. Vargas said
theimmigrants, in interviews with authorities, have given varying figures for
the cost of the trip, with amounts ranging from $3,500 to $30,000.

Their journey was cut short last Saturday when three dozen members of the group
were arrested. Mexican police stopped and searched four heavily loaded vans
traveling together on a rural road 23 miles south of Ensenada.

Police were then led to a safe house where the remainder of the group waited.

Authorities also arrested four Mexican nationals and a Chinese man on smuggling
charges.

Until Wednesday, the immigrants were being held on the second floor of the
Ensenada police station, where city officials gave them mattresses and blankets.

"We didn't put them in cells because they are not criminals," Ensenada Police
Chief Jesus Jaime Gonzalez said.

Baja California, with its long stretches of remote coastline, has been used by
immigrant smugglers from China in the past.

Last year, the ship Chih Yung was intercepted by the Coast Guard in
international waters in the Pacific.

Authorities believe the crew intended to drop off about 150 Chinese nationals at
a ranch in Baja California, where the immigrants planned to wait for an
opportunity to cross the border by land.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Chinese immigrants play dodge ball Thursday in the courtyard of the Tijuana
Municipal Auditorium in Tijuana, Mexico. Mexican officials are arranging for
repatriation of the 177 immigrants who were apprehended.
[990703 CA 6B]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Chinese immigrants line up for lunch Thursday at the Tijuana Municipal
Auditorium.
[990703 CA 6B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 7, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT LICENSE BILL STALLS OUT

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


A bill that would have allowed illegal immigrants to obtain California driver's
licenses died Tuesday in a deeply divided Senate committee.

The measure, sponsored by Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, would have
repealed state Sen. Al Alquist's 1993 legislation that requires license
applicants to prove they're in the country legally. Alquist, a retired San Jose
Democrat, had claimed that illegal immigrants were using driver's licenses as
"breeder documents" to establish residency and apply for welfare.

Cedillo and backers of his bill, AB 1463, argued Tuesday that the issue was
traffic safety, not illegal immigration. Permitting undocumented immigrants to
drive on California roads without being road-tested, licensed and insured is
poor public policy, they argued.

But the bill initially garnered only five votes on the 12-member Transportation
Committee.

"It dies," a visibly disappointed Cedillo, who represents a predominantly Asian
and Latino district, said minutes after the 6-5 vote.

Cedillo later picked up a vote from Sen. Tom Hayden, a liberal Santa Monica
Democrat, after he arrived late at the hearing. But frenetic attempts to
persuade at least one senator to change his or her "no" vote failed, and the
committee adjourned late Tuesday.

Cedillo's aide, David Galaviz, said Cedillo was working Tuesday night to ensure
that the Senate later this summer can still consider a scaled-back version of
his bill that would allow illegal immigrants with pending immigration petitions
to get licenses.

Tuesday's vote was viewed in Sacramento as a key measure of political sentiment
over the once-incendiary issue of illegal immigration -- an issue that has
simmered since Proposition 187 passed overwhelmingly in November 1994. That
landmark initiative, which last year was declared unconstitutional by a federal
judge, would have prevented illegal immigrants from attending public schools and
receiving most public benefits with the exception of emergency medical care.

Watered down

Cedillo's bill was virtually identical to a measure by Sen. Hilda Solis, D-El
Monte. But Solis' bill was watered down by the transportation panel after she
told fellow senators that her main concern was protecting free trade and the
interests of Japanese business people, who have complained of the long time it
takes for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to clear their license
applications.

Although a half-dozen states have laws similar to the Alquist law, only
California has established an elaborate system that makes it virtually
impossible to present fraudulent documents. The Department of Motor Vehicles
uses INS databases to check immigration status at its local offices while
applicants for licenses and state ID cards wait in line.

In most cases, the applicants have their immigration status verified while they
wait in line. But in almost 200,000 cases a year, copies of immigration
documents are sent to the INS for "secondary verification," sometimes causing
months of delay in obtaining a permanent license.

The Solis bill, SB 371, which easily cleared the Democratic-controlled Senate,
still requires driver's license applicants to present documents proving they
were born in the United States, are naturalized citizens or are legal residents
or visitors. But under a legislative compromise, the DMV would not require
secondary verification unless it believed that the submitted documents were
fraudulent.

Gov. Gray Davis, a Proposition 187 opponent who has tiptoed around the issue of
appealing the judge's 187 decision, has not taken a position on either the Solis
or the Cedillo bill.

Figueroa: facing reality

Senators who voted for Cedillo's bill Tuesday, including Sen. Jackie Speier,
D-San Mateo, and Sen. Liz Figueroa, D-Fremont, argued that the vote simply
acknowledged reality -- that the state of California has little power tocontrol
the tens of thousands of illegal immigrants who still come to the state annually
despite Proposition 187 and despite 1996 federal legislation aimed at getting
tough on illegal immigrants.

"One of the realities is that they are here and the state of California doesn't
have the power to remove them," said Sen. Kevin Murray, D-Culver City.

"Do you want your daughter on a bicycle on the same street with someone who
didn't study the traffic laws and take the driving test?" Murray asked Rick
Oltman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which strongly opposed
Cedillo's bill.

Oltman, a San Rafael resident who led the Northern California fight to pass
Proposition 187, said he supported licensing and car-insurance requirements for
all Californians -- but only those here legally.

"Giving illegal aliens driver's licenses will only make enforcement of our
immigrant laws more difficult," said Oltman, contending that it would make it
harder to detect them.

Denying licenses to illegal immigrants, Oltman argued, is "one more tool we can
use to prevent them from taking jobs from legal residents."

Sen. Betty Karnette, a Long Beach Democrat who chairs the transportation panel,
seemed to sum up the concerns of many on her panel when she announced that she
was voting "no" -- but then expressed frustration at the larger issues involved.
"We ought to be talking to the federal government about (guest worker) permits"
for Latino workers now working here illegally, she said. Such a program would
allow people to work and get driver's licenses, she added. "There ought to be
some way of doing that," Karnette said.

She congratulated Cedillo on making a "good case" for his bill, but said most
people in her district would simply object to giving a legal document to illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 20, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

13 IMPRISONED IN HOME ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS OWED FOR SMUGGLING, POMONA POLICE SAY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: POMONA


Police say illegal immigrants who failed to pay their smugglers were abducted
and confined under guard for up to a month in an unlikely prison: a one-story
family home in this suburban Southern California enclave.

Four men were charged with kidnapping and false imprisonment Monday morning
after police found 13 illegal immigrants detained in the filthy, sparsely
furnished three-bedroom home with a well-manicured lawn, said Pomona police Cpl.
Kurt Maier.

The illegal immigrants were taken into custody by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The four alleged smugglers -- Francisco Torrez, 25; Jose
Garcia-Aranda, 18; Pedro Garfias, 19; and Elvis Melendez, age unavailable --
were being held at a Pomona jail. The INS was reviewing the case to determine
whether the men would face federal charges in connection with the alleged
smuggling.

Neighbors in this community about 40 miles east of Los Angeles said they were
unaware of any problems until a swarm of police and immigration
officialsdescended on the house-turned-prison.

Rosa Gutierrez, who owns a house in the neighborhood, said the alleged smuggling
group moved in a couple of months ago and stayed to themselves.

"They never said anything. It looked like they were not home much. I thought
they just worked different hours," she said, adding that there were always four
or five cars parked in front of the house.

None of those interviewed could remember seeing anybody other than the alleged
smugglers. But police say for about the past month, the men had been using the
house as a holding pen for illegal immigrants while they waited for family
members or others to come up with money to pay the smuggling debt.

It was not immediately known how much the four men charged to bring people
across the Mexico-U.S. border.

On the outside, the light-blue house with dark trim looked like every other
house on the block with its well-tended lawn and a regularly swept driveway.

But inside, bed sheets covered the windows, blankets and clothing were scattered
on the floor and trash -- hot dog wrappers and soda and beer cans -- was piled
up in the kitchen.

The detainees appeared to have built a shrine to the Virgin Mary in the living
room, and religious candles were in the house.

The case began to come together Sunday night when police received a report that
Trimoundo Orosco, 32, had been kidnapped off the street while walking to a
store, Maier said.

Witnesses who saw the abduction gave police descriptions of the cars, which
eventually led investigators to the house where Orosco and the others were being
held.

Maier said two of the men arrested -- Garcia-Aranda and Garfias -- tried to
escape by climbing into a crawl space. Melendez attempted to pose as one of the
victims, but the 13 men pointed him out to police.

Neighbors say the 13 men were loaded on to a bus by the INS. INS spokesman Rico
Cabrera would not comment on the status of the investigation or the likely
outcome for the 13 men.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rosa Gutierrez, left, Elias Alvarez and Margarita Alvarez discuss a neighboring
home, which police say was used to detain immigrants.
[990720 CA 5B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 27, 1999 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

IMMIGRANT PRENATAL CARE SUBSIDIZED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


California will provide state-subsidized prenatal care for illegal immigrants
under a bill signed by the governor Thursday and announced Monday.

Gov. Gray Davis also signed a bill expanding Healthy Families, the state's
health insurance program for poor children.

"These bills will ensure that more of our most vulnerable kids get access to
health care," Davis said in a written statement.

Davis signed the prenatal-care bill days after a state appeals court rejected
his fourth attempt to delay a court hearing in a lawsuit in which he is the
defendant.

The prenatal-care program eliminates the thorniest immigration issue Davis has
faced since he sidestepped a decision on Proposition 187 -- a voter-approved ban
on most public services for illegal immigrants -- earlier this year. Davis sent
the illegal-immigration measure to a federal mediator, where it remains.

Although illegal immigrants are ineligible for most publicly funded health care,
California provides prenatal care under Medi-Cal for all needy women, including
about 70,000 illegal immigrants.

Davis' predecessor, Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, sought to make pregnant illegal
immigrants ineligible for such benefits.

State courts blocked Wilson's effort. He appealed, and when Davis took office in
January, he became the defender of the policy.

By signing the bill funding the prenatal care, Davis could kill lawsuits on the
matter, said John Affeldt, the lead counsel in the one of the cases that
challenged Wilson's attempt to block the assistance. A regulation cutting off
the aid remains on the state books, Affeldt said. If Davis removes the
regulation, Affeldt will drop the lawsuit, and he predicted his counterparts in
two similar lawsuits would do likewise.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 29, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DAVIS TO DROP PROP. 187 APPEAL MOVE WILL KILL MOST OF DIVISIVE MEASURE

BYLINE: HALLYE JORDAN AND BEN STOCKING, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Gray Davis plans to abandon the state's defense of Proposition 187, killing
most of the divisive landmark anti-illegal-immigrant measure.

The decision, which Davis is expected to announce today, reverses his earlier
stance that as governor he was obligated to appeal a court ruling declaring
unconstitutional the controversial 1994 voter-approved initiative. Davis had
opposed the measure and also had promised during his campaign to end wedge-issue
politics.

Some of the state's most prominent Latino politicians, including Lt. Gov. Cruz
Bustamante, had urged Davis to drop the appeal months ago and criticized him
bitterly when he decided to ask the federal appeals court to mediate a
settlement with the proposition's opponents.

Along with Davis' decision to drop the state's appeal, immigration-rights
advocates also have agreed to drop their appeal of the federal judge's ruling
that upheld part of the proposition that made it a crime to produce and use
fraudulent documents.

The agreement, which sources knowledgeable with the mediation confirmed
Wednesday, also strikes a part of the initiative that requires social-service
workers and teachers to turn in people they suspect of being illegal immigrants.

Wilson pushed measure

Pushed by former Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, the initiative banned most public
aid for undocumented immigrants, including public education and health care.

The most controversial parts of the initiative never went into effect. U.S.
District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer struck down the vast majority of Proposition
187 as unconstitutional, and Wilson appealed. But some portions -- restricting
non-emergency medical care and welfare benefits, for example -- became federal
law in 1996.

Peter A. Schey, president of the League of United Latin American Citizens, and
the attorney for Proposition 187 opponents, would not provide details of the
agreement, reached after three months of behind-closed-door mediation. But he
said, "I think all fair-minded Californians will be satisfied with the
announcement."

Assembly Speaker Antonio Villaraigosa, D-Los Angeles, another opponent of the
initiative, agreed. "Today's settlement signals that it's time to move beyond
the divisiveness of Proposition 187. The decision ensures that children can get
an education, working families can get health care and law enforcement can focus
on fighting crime."

Supporters of Proposition 187 could not be reached Wednesday, but were angered
that they had been shut out of the mediation. "We tried to get involved 2 1/2
years ago when the case was still before Judge Pfaelzer," Dave Stirling, vice
president of the Pacific Legal Foundation, said recently. But the judge denied
their request, stating that their views were being adequately defended by Wilson
and then-Attorney General Dan Lungren. "Circumstances have changed," he said,
"but we have not had another opportunity to intervene."

The Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, which did not take a position on the
initiative, sued to intervene but was unsuccessful. Jonathan Coupal said the
association challenged the mediation on the grounds that a voter-approved
initiative should not be amended behind closed doors, but in open court. "It
seems to me like a miscarriage of justice," Coupal said.

Davis campaigned heavily on ending the era of divisive anti-immigrant politics
instituted by Wilson. He also said he would never bar illegal immigrant children
from attending public schools -- a provision in Proposition187 that flew in the
face of a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in a Texas case.

Davis' balancing act

But Davis is known as a cautious fence-straddler, perfecting a balancing act
that appears likely to mark his first term in office. He was acutely aware that
almost 60 percent of the voters approved Proposition 187, and he had pledged to
uphold the will of the voters.

On April 15, he announced that he would not drop Wilson's appeal of the ruling
and instead would ask the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to mediate the case
-- a move immediately criticized as a cop-out.

Democrats and Latinos were enraged, but the most serious rift occurred between
Davis and Bustamante, a moderate Democrat from the Central Valley who blasted
Davis because of his decision.

The much-publicized squabble was great political theater. Shortly after
Bustamante criticized Davis, the governor's office told Bustamante's staff it
would lose nine reserved parking spaces near the Capitol. Davis' staff insisted
the action had nothing to do with the Bustamante battle, saying the spaces were
needed because of planned construction at the Capitol, but Bustamante was not
convinced.

In an ironic twist, the agreement that will be announced today was proposed by
Bustamante two months ago. In a May 12 letter to Robert Shuman, a top Davis
legal adviser, Bustamante reiterated his opposition to the mediation, but
suggested a compromise. He suggested that the American Civil Liberties Union and
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, two opponents of the
proposition, should drop their appeal of Pfaelzer's ruling that upheld a small
part of the initiative. In return, he said, the state should withdraw its
appeal.

In the letter, Bustamante said his proposal was "the only viable resolution of
the matter," and that it would uphold the "validity and integrity" of the
judge's ruling, while safeguarding important legal principles and serving the
people of California.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: PAGEE 3B

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Davis
[990729 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 29, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GUNFIRE BOOSTS TENSIONS AT BORDER IMMIGRANT ARRESTS, DEATHS INCREASE WITH
CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: CALEXICO


Michael Singh drove along a darkened city street a few feet from the steel rail
fence that divides Mexico and the United States. The call of "shots fired"
crackled over his radio.

In most U.S. cities, it would be a run-of-the-mill call. But Singh is a watch
commander for the Border Patrol, and his job is to catch illegal immigrants, not
investigate reports of shootings.

That's changing. Agents in Calexico are increasingly dodging bullets as tension
and desperation mount along the California border, where arrests and deaths of
illegal immigrants have skyrocketed over the course of a five-year crackdown.

"We have to be on our guard because we don't know what we're going to encounter
out here," said Singh, who patrols a 26-mile stretch of border near Calexico, a
community of 28,000 ringed by alfalfa fields and irrigation canals about 125
miles east of San Diego.

Not counting the call Singh heard, the Border Patrol has received seven reports
of shots fired at agents in the Calexico region so far this year, including a
recent night with three in one hour. No injuries were reported. In all of last
year, the agency received five reports of shots.

Authorities say drug or immigrant smugglers, frustrated by a crackdown that has
all but closed a once-reliable route into the United States, are to blame.

"These are just isolated cases of smugglers reacting to the increased patrols,"
said Carlos Luna Herrera, regional coordinator of Grupo Beta, a Mexican border
police unit created to protect migrants. "But they are unusual."

When the call came in at 10:04 p.m., Singh made a quick U-turn, racing to an
open lot beside the 12-foot border fence, where the night glows orange from
high-powered, stadium-style lights.

Ely Lopez, a seven-year veteran of the patrol, was already there in his
bulletproof vest. He had heard at least three shots from Colonia Puerto Nuevo, a
poor neighborhood in Mexicali, the city of 1 million that sprawls along the
other side of the border.

Singh called Grupo Beta, which agreed to send a patrol. But quiet had returned,
and an arrest was unlikely.

Crossing illegally at Calexico used to be much easier. In 1996, 81 agents were
assigned to the area, with perhaps only a handful working at night, a popular
crossing time for migrants trying to avoid daytime temperatures that can top 110
degrees.

"We had groups of 150 rushing us, and we had only six or seven agents working at
a time," Singh recalled.

Now, 194 agents work in the area, including about 40 at night using motion
detectors and night-vision scopes.

The agents apprehended 9,908 migrants in June, more than twice the number caught
the same month in 1996. Arrests hit an all-time high in March, with 19,908.

The vigilance is costly. Last year, 145 people died trying to enter California
illegally, compared with only about 23 before the U.S. crackdown known as
Operation Gatekeeper began in 1994, said Roberto Martinez, director of the
Border Project of the American Friends Service Committee.

The program has forced border crossers into remote, dangerous regions such as
the cold mountains of eastern San Diego County, where eight people froze to
death in an April snowstorm, and the All-American Canal, an 82-mile waterway
that runs through the Calexico area, where 10 migrants have drowned this year.

In May, a Calexico Border Patrol agent was accused of firing a pellet gunat a
raft carrying three immigrants across the canal, causing it to flip. Two
migrants made it to shore, but the third was never found. The case remains under
investigation.

"It's gotten more desperate for both the immigrants and the smugglers," Martinez
said. "And I think we are going to see it increase as they add more agents."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BORDER NUMBERS
Statistics on the Calexico border region:
* GEOGRAPHY: Calexico, an agricultural community of 28,000 people, 125 miles
east of San Diego, in southeastern California.
* BORDER PATROL: 194 agents patrol a 26-mile stretch of border. Number of agents
has more than doubled since 1996 under Operation Gatekeeper, a U.S. crackdown on
illegal immigration that has closed traditional routes through the area.
* ARRESTS: Arrests of illegal immigrants average 350 a day, up from 257 a day
the year before. The monthly total hit an all-time high in March with 19,908
arrests. June arrests totaled 9,908, compared with 4,177 in June 1996.
Source: Associated Press

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A group of illegal immigrants is escorted across a field by a U.S. Border Patrol
agent near Calexico.
[990729 CA 3B]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Michael Singh, a U.S. Border Patrol watch commander, talks with a man swimming
in the All-American Canal near Calexico.
[990729 CA 7B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 30, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DAVIS' DEAL ON 187 AT LEAST CUTS RANCOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 629 words


GOV. Gray Davis has wiggled his way out of a jam over Proposition 187 with a
settlement that will end the legal wrangling over the anti-illegal-immigration
measure.

The deal he struck with opponents of the initiative in effect buries Proposition
187's main provisions. That won't please advocates, who were hoping, perhaps
against hope, that the U.S. Supreme Court would eventually sanction it. But it
should satisfy those Californians, including even some supporters, who were
disturbed by Proposition 187's harshest elements.

Proposition 187 would have barred illegal immigrants from receiving social
services and subsidized health care. It also would have denied an education to
undocumented children and would have required teachers and social workers to
turn them in.

Though passed in 1994 by 60 percent of the electorate, Proposition 187 was never
implemented. A federal court judge declared most sections unconstitutional,
ruling that immigration controls were the federal government's authority, not
the state's.

Enactment would have led to the expulsion of tens of thousands of kids enrolled
in public schools -- a distasteful prospect even for those concerned about
immigration's substantial impact on the cost of education. But for that to
happen, the U.S. Supreme Court would have had to reverse its 1982 decision
guaranteeing illegal immigrant children the right to a public education.

In inheriting the legal challenge from Gov. Pete Wilson, Davis faced a dilemma.
While personally opposed to Proposition 187, he promised during his campaign to
carry out his constitutional duty and the will of voters. Latino leaders,
including Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, called on him to abandon the court case.

Davis' solution -- a three-month effort at mediation -- led to an agreement with
the opponents of Proposition 187, though not with its supporters. A previous
court decision ruled that the sponsors of Proposition 187, represented by the
Pacific Legal Foundation, lacked legal standing in the appeal. The state, it
said, represented their interests. Davis used that ruling as a rationale to
exclude the proponents from the direct negotiations.

The agreement that was disclosed yesterday reflected the one-sided nature of the
mediation. As opponents of Proposition 187, we're largely pleased with the
outcome. But we also understand why proponents objected to the closed-door
process and claimed they weren't fully or fairly represented.

Not all of Proposition 187 has disappeared. In its 1996 welfare reforms,
Congress banned most non-emergency aid to illegal immigrants. Davis' settlement
makes a tacit acknowledgment of that, noting the state is free to enforce
restrictions imposed by federal law. It also incorporates into state law a minor
piece of Proposition 187, establishing state criminal penalties for
manufacturing and using false immigration documents.

But the lawyers for the opponents of Proposition 187, who included civil rights
and Latino groups, ended up making few concessions. Among the Proposition 187
sections dropped was a provision requiring police to ask people they arrest
about their immigration status, and to report suspectedillegal immigrants to
federal authorities and to the state attorney general's office.

Wilson promoted Proposition 187 in the midst of California's recession and his
bid for re-election. It revived his flagging campaign and fanned anti-immigrant
fears. But it also spurred large numbers of immigrants to become citizens and
ignited political activism by Latino groups.

Proposition 187 was a divisive response to concerns about illegal immigration.
Davis' settlement doesn't confront the unresolved issues head-on. But it does at
least put a rancorous chapter of the debate behind.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 20, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR WANTS HELP WITH SMUGGLING

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 112 words


Citing the deaths of as many as 40 Haitians in a smuggling disaster at sea this
month, Florida's governor on Friday demanded that the federal government do more
to help cope with a recent surge in immigrant smuggling.

"Preventing alien smuggling is the job of the federal government, and today the
federal government is failing in its responsibility," Florida Gov. Jeb Bush said
in a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno.

In the letter, Bush said Washington should do more to detect smugglers' boats,
provide more resources to interdict aliens at sea and return them to their home
countries and reallocate existing resources to make alien smuggling a top
priority.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 30, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

STATE'S IMMIGRANTS LEADING IN WELFARE USE, SURVEY SAYS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1165 words


New citizens in California are nearly three times more likely to receive welfare
than native-born residents, a dramatic difference that is not seen in other
states with burgeoning immigrant populations, according to a new report by the
U.S. General Accounting Office.

In addition to general welfare, the GAO -- the investigative arm of Congress --
has documented similar differences in the use of Medicaid, the nation's health
insurance program for the needy.

In California, for instance, the number of citizens naturalized in fiscal years
1996 and 1997 receiving Medi-Cal (California's Medicaid program) was 23.7
percent, compared with 8.2 percent for native-born citizens. In Illinois, one of
five states studied by the GAO because they have large numbers of immigrants,
the difference was insignificant -- 7.5 percent for new citizens vs. 6 percent
for the native-born.

The report drew no conclusions about the stark differences among states. But
researchers, immigrant-rights advocates and immigration critics interviewed
Tuesday attributed the differences to several factors, including California's
aggressive push to have low-income immigrants become citizens, as well as the
vast array of ethnic and immigrant-advocacy groups that encourage welfare use.

"You have community-based organizations that get on ethnic TV stations or into
the ethnic press and work hard to disseminate information on welfare," said Norm
Matloff, a University of California-Davis professor whose testimony in 1994 and
1996 helped persuade Congress to cut legal immigrants off welfare. "Other states
don't have critical masses of certain nationalities."

'Model minority' disputed

In 1993, Matloff finished a groundbreaking study that showed that despite
a"model minority" stereotypical image of being self-sufficient, 55 percent of
elderly Chinese immigrants in California received public assistance, mostly
Supplemental Security Income. Among elderly Vietnamese immigrants, the figure
was 74 percent, compared with 21 percent of Mexican immigrants and 9 percent of
the native-born elderly.

Nationwide figures for Asian immigrant groups were significantly lower,
according to Matloff.

The GAO did not break down SSI use by state, but the report showed that 8.3
percent of new citizens received SSI, compared with 2.4 percent of U.S.-born
citizens.

In California, the GAO said, 5.8 percent of new citizens were receiving
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, the nation's leading welfare program,
compared with 2 percent of native-born citizens. In Texas, the figures were 1.5
percent for new citizens vs. 1.2 percent for the native-born -- a difference
that the GAO said was statistically insignificant.

Florida and New York had higher overall public-assistance use among new
citizens, but not nearly as high as California. Only Florida matched
California's disparity in Medicaid use.

Rush to citizenship

The 1990s have witnessed a great rush to apply for citizenship. It began during
the campaign for Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative aimed at cutting off
benefits to illegal immigrants. It surged again in 1995 after congressional
Republicans and some Democrats began talking about cutting off welfare benefits
to legal immigrants -- a threat that became reality when President Clinton
signed the welfare reform bill in August 1996.

California counties then spent millions of dollars encouraging non-citizen
immigrants to naturalize to make sure they didn't end up on county-funded
general assistance rolls. Santa Clara County alone spent more than $1 million
getting more than 7,000 immigrants to sign up to become citizens.

State officials said Tuesday they have never tracked the use of public
assistance by new citizens. "So we don't know if this is a trend since
immigrants receiving SSI for years were being threatened with a cutoff (in 1996
and 1997)," said Anita Gore, a spokeswoman for the California Health and Human
Services Agency.

Some immigrant-rights advocates attacked the GAO report as politically motivated
-- and unfair.

"The period that the report looks at is precisely the height of the crisis, when
people were becoming citizens because it was the only way for them to survive,"
said Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil rights
organization.

Munoz questioned the motives of Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Oxnard, who requested the
GAO report.

"He's just trying to paint another negative picture of immigrants," she said.

"It is no longer in his party's political interest to be making this particular
case," she added, alluding to the new "immigrant-friendly" posture of Texas Gov.
George W. Bush, the GOP presidential front-runner.

Neither Gallegly nor his press secretary was available for comment Tuesday.

Munoz and other immigrant advocates pointed to other studies that show -- with
the exception of political refugees -- welfare usage among immigrants and
native-born Americans is about the same.

A study by the Urban Institute in March, for instance, showed a significantly
greater drop in welfare use by non-citizens and refugee households, compared
with native-born Americans, from 1994 to 1997.

Effects of welfare reform

In fact, said institute researcher Michael Fix, welfare reform seems to be
discouraging immigrants from using public benefits despite the fact that
Congress has gradually restored most benefits to legal immigrants.

Fix on Tuesday questioned the methods used by the GAO, saying it compiled data
from various sources.

"The GAO is mixing apples and oranges," Fix said.

But others say the statistical variations that could occur don't explainwhy
California's statistics are different from those of states such as Texas and
Illinois.

"What the GAO report shows is that we have an immigration policy that brings in
a lot of people who are not prepared to be economically self-sufficient," said
Ira Mehlman, Los-Angeles-based spokesman for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform. "We're importing poverty to the United States."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
WELFARE CONTRASTS
The U.S. General Accounting Office looked at the difference between U.S.-born
citizens and citizens naturalized in fiscal years 1996 and 1997 in the use of
welfare and other public assistance. Here's how California compared:
Estimated
percentage            Estimated
of recently           percentage
naturalized           of native-born
citizens              citizens
receiving             receiving
Program      State         benefits              benefits
Medicaid     California    23.7                  8.2
Florida       18.7                  6.2
Illinois      7.5                   6.0
New York      17.3                  9.6
Texas         9.6                   6.1
TANF(*)      California    5.8                   2.0
Florida       1.8                   1.1
New York      4.7                   2.2
Texas         1.5                   1.2
(*)Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, the nation's main welfare program.
Source: General Accounting Office

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 1999

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 7/1/99, pg. 2A) The headline on a
story on Page 1A on Wednesday comparing the number of naturalized citizens
receiving welfare in California with the number of native-born residents
receiving welfare in the state was incorrect. The headline mistakenly indicated
that the figures for naturalized citizens included all immigrants.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 30, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS GET BIAS PROTECTION

BYLINE: From the Associated Press, Bloomberg News, the Los Angeles, Times and
Reuters

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 124 words


In a decision that significantly broadens the legal rights of undocumented
workers, a state appeals court has ruled that those workers are protected by
California's anti-discrimination laws and can sue employers for sexual
harassment and other job abuse. The ruling marks the first time that a
California court has affirmatively held that undocumented workers have the same
workplace rights as other employees. Until now, employers and immigrants' rights
lawyers had no clear guidance on these rights, resulting in few lawsuits brought
and some employers abusing workers with little fear of legal consequences.
Undocumented workers now can sue over such things as being paid below minimum
wage or subjected to unsafe working conditions.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Company News

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 31, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TRIAL ON PRENATAL CARE DELAYED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A judge's order Friday allows the next governor to decide whether to continue
Gov. Pete Wilson's long-stalled attempt to cut off prenatal care for illegal
immigrants -- care that Lt. Gov. Gray Davis wants to preserve.

Los Angeles Superior Court Judge James Bascue granted a request by lawyers for
immigrant mothers to give the new governor a say by postponing a trial scheduled
to begin Nov. 24 over the legality of the cutoff. The next hearing is scheduled
Feb. 2, two weeks after Wilson leaves office.

About 70,000 illegal immigrants are covered by Medi-Cal for prenatal care under
a 1988 state law that remains in effect.

Davis, the Democratic candidate for governor, believes the benefits should be
maintained, said campaign spokesman Michael Bustamante. The Republican
candidate, Attorney General Dan Lungren, agrees with Wilson, said campaign
spokesman Bob Brown.

"With limited state resources, it should be reserved for legal immigrants," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 14, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SUIT SEEKS HOUSING FUNDS

BYLINE: BOB EGELKO, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Poverty lawyers are challenging former Gov. Pete Wilson's cutoff of four federal
housing aid programs, including lead removal and utility bill assistance, to
housing where illegal immigrants live.

They're also waiting for Gov. Gray Davis to take a position.

A suit filed in San Francisco Superior Court on Nov. 30, and moved to federal
court by a state lawyer this week, claims the little-noticed actions violated
federal law.

Emergency regulations passed by Wilson's administration a year ago made illegal
immigrants ineligible for these programs in California:

* Lead abatement, which pays contractors to examine and remove lead-based paint
from housing built before 1978 and test the blood of exposed workers and
children.

* Low-income home energy assistance, which provides subsidies to poor families
who pay a high percentage of their income for gas or electricity.

* Weatherization, which pays for improvements to make low-income housing safer
and more energy-efficient, especially for the elderly, the handicapped and
children.

* Community service block grants, provided to local agencies to help the poor
get education, job training and other services and skills.

Wilson said his action was required by a 1996 federal welfare law that made
illegal immigrants ineligible for federal public benefits.

But lawyers in the suit argued that the law requires states to await federal
determination of which programs are "federal public benefits." California, alone
among the states, acted without consulting the federal agencies responsible for
the programs, the suit said.

The suit also said the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has
concluded that community service block grants, which serve groups of people
rather than individual households, are not federal public benefits that must be
denied to illegal immigrants. The department has made the same determination for
weatherization of apartments that house more than onefamily, the suit said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Wilson
[990114 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 22, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DAVIS SAYS HE'LL ARGUE AGAINST PART OF PROP. 187 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: GOVERNOR
SPEAKS OUT AGAINST BARRING CHILDREN FROM PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Gray Davis, who earlier promised to respect voter approval of Proposition
187, says he will argue in mediation against a provision that would bar illegal
immigrant children from public schools.

"I personally will never be a party to an effort to kick kids out of school,"
Davis told the Los Angeles Times for Friday's editions. "I will never allow
California to take that position if it is within my power to prevent it -- and I
believe that it is."

Proposition 187 would bar illegal immigrants from receiving a variety of
publicly financed services, including education at public schools and colleges.

Courts ruled the 1994 ballot measure unconstitutional, but then-Gov. Pete Wilson
appealed.

Davis said he has always opposed the initiative, but rather than simply dropping
the appeal, he sent the matter to a federal mediator last month. He said the
state constitution bars him from striking down the initiative.

"The mediation process respects the will of the voters and will put Proposition
187 behind us," Davis spokesman Michael Bustamante said. "Dropping the appeal
altogether would have ignored the will of the people."

Davis, as governor, is a defendant in the Proposition 187 case. It is unclear
how he will argue in mediation on eight elements that constitute the measure.

Bustamante said Davis may ultimately agree with Proposition 187's proponents on
certain points.

But Davis' latest remarks signal that he will not accept a settlement that shuts
illegal immigrants out of public schools.

Davis' tough talk is backed up by a 1982 Supreme Court ruling that barred Texas
from denying education to illegal immigrants.

That is in part why U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer of Los Angeles ruled
last year that most of Proposition 187's provisions were unconstitutional. She
blocked enforcement of the initiative.

Last month, when announcing his decision to seek mediation, Davis said, "Few
things make people more cynical about government than when politicians
substitute their personal judgment for the expressed will of the voters."

Proponents of Proposition 187 denounced Davis' latest comments.

"The governor is showing a tremendous amount of disrespect for the voters of
this state if he decides to carve out the portions of Proposition 187 that he
likes politically, and that he doesn't like politically," said Sharon Browne, a
lawyer representing the initiative's backers.

The measure's opponents cheered Davis' announcement.

The initiative's education section is its most important, said Thomas Saenz,
lawyer for the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund, one of the plaintiffs in the
lawsuit against Proposition 187.

Davis said he expects the mediation process to last up to four months.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 15, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRISON TERM FOR SMUGGLING PEOPLE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 143 words


A man convicted of arranging the smuggling of 280 Chinese immigrants on two
crowded fishing boats was sentenced Monday in San Francisco to three years and
nine months in prison. Prosecutors described John Luong, 27, of Elk Grove as
leader of a gang that brought the immigrants ashore south of San Francisco.

The passengers were captured in 1993 in Half Moon Bay and Moss Landing and were
deported, apart from a few who were granted political asylum. They had paid
$27,000 to $30,000 each for the trip and were to work off the debt in brothels
or other gang-run operations in New York, authorities said.

Gang members testifying for the prosecution said New York and California gangs
planned the operation and Luong agreed to arrange the voyage in exchange for
$650,000. Luong's lawyer, Maureen Kallins, denied he was the ringleader.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 21, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THREE 'SMUGGLING CARTELS' BROKEN UP RINGS BROUGHT 12,000 ASIAN IMMIGRANTS TO
U.S.

BYLINE: FRANK DAVIES, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal officials said Friday that they had smashed three sophisticated
"smuggling cartels" that shuttled about 12,000 illegal Asian immigrants through
Russia, Cuba and Latin America into the United States since 1995, then hid them
in "stash houses" until they paid off fees of at least $20,000 per person.

"This is the largest alien-smuggling organization ever dismantled in United
States history," said Attorney General Janet Reno, who blasted "unscrupulous
employers" who contracted for the illegal immigrants from India, Pakistan,
Afghanistan and Syria. Most were from India.

So far, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and other federal
officers have arrested 21 alleged members of the groups, including four in Miami
this week, three elsewhere in Florida and two in the Bahamas. Agents arrested
one of the alleged ringleaders, Nitin Shettie, in the Bahamas on Nov. 14.

"This is like bringing down three drug cartels at one time," said Paul Coggins,
U.S. attorney in Dallas. He praised the help of India, Panama, the Bahamas,
Ecuador and the Dominican Republic. "This is the most complex andsophisticated
smuggling operation we've seen."

According to an indictment unsealed in Dallas, where the investigation
originated, the 30-year-old Shettie -- also known as Nick Diaz -- operated at
least one "stash house" in Miami, where smuggled people who had arrived from the
Bahamas had been hidden as recently as Nov. 7. Coggins said he expected the
arrest of more smugglers.

The smugglers used small boats and planes, said Coggins. Their main entry points
were South Florida and the Mexico border. After the immigrants paid off their
debts, they were transferred to work sites in such cities as Los Angeles,
Chicago and New York.

When contacted by the Mercury News, however, a representative of the INS Western
regional office in Laguna Niguel said that although one man had been arrested in
Los Angeles in the sting, all the work sites identified were on the East Coast.

The smuggling profits were shipped to India through several countries, including
Canada, the Bahamas, Dubai and the United Arab Emirates, according to the INS.
Illegal immigrants and employers have been found in 38 states, investigators
said. They declined to be more specific.

Investigators estimated that the smuggling networks took in about $220 million
in three years.

Prosecutors are using money-laundering laws to seize the assets of the suspects.

Through the State Department, the INS is informing Cuba of 37 Indian nationals
and possible smugglers now on the island. INS officials said they did not know
whether the Cuban government was involved in, or knew about, the smuggling
operation.

The yearlong investigation, called "Operation Seek and Keep," was the first to
use new wiretap authority, approved by Congress in 1996, in immigrant-smuggling
cases. In this case, INS officials said, more than 35,000 phone calls were
intercepted.

"This is a critical tool for us to go after well-organized, well-financed
international criminal organizations," said Doris Meissner, the INS
commissioner, who called the networks "ruthless smuggling in human cargo."

Prosecutors and investigators described a circuitous pipeline used by the
smugglers, from northern India to Moscow -- where it's easy to get transit
papers for travelers not staying in Russia -- and then a direct flight to
Havana.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Ken McLaughlin contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map;
MAP: MIAMI HERALD
SMUGGLING ROUTES
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Commissioner Doris Meissner, left, and Attorney General Janet Reno announce the
arrests.
[981121 FR 15A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 31, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE PANEL VOTES INS ENFORCEMENT OUT

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 136 words


Vexed by persistent problems within the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
a House subcommittee voted Thursday to strip the agency of its enforcement
powers. By voice vote, the House Justice immigration subcommittee approved a
bill by Rep. Harold Rogers, R-Ky., that would create a new Bureau of Enforcement
and Border Affairs to handle policing of the nation's borders and its
immigration laws. The bureau would be in the Justice Department, as is the INS.

INS would retain the service mission it already performs: Doling out benefits
such as citizenship, work permits and the like. There is broad consensus within
Congress, the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform and others in the
immigration arena that reorganization is needed of the INS'soften conflicting
missions of service and enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 19, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELFARE ROLLS AID INS PROGRAM: S.J. OFFICE HIRING 10 WORKERS TO HELP WITH
APPLICATION BACKLOG.

BYLINE: TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 755 words


Under the first program of its kind in the nation, federal immigration officials
in San Jose will start using local welfare recipients this week to help process
a huge backlog of citizenship applications.

Adding up to 10 welfare recipients to open mail and enter data will nearly
double the size of the permanent clerical staff at the San Jose office of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, an INS spokeswoman said. The office
has a backlog of 60,000 citizenship applications -- among the biggest in the
nation -- forcing prospective citizens to wait two years before even being
interviewed.

The workers' salaries will be paid by Santa Clara County, which offered 18
months ago to help the INS dig out from under the mountain of paperwork. Similar
efforts are being negotiated in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Miami and New York,
which also are experiencing long delays in processing citizenship applications.

"We're trying to establish this kind of program throughout the country," said
Sharon Rummery, an INS spokeswoman in the San Francisco district office, which
oversees the San Jose office. "We expect to see definite results."

The INS plans to announce the program today at a San Jose news conference.

Santa Clara County was eager to help the INS because it feared legal immigrants
cut from federal welfare rolls would end up on county welfare rolls.

Santa Clara County has spent more than $1 million getting 7,000 legal immigrants
to sign up to become citizens, only to run into the backlog. The county launched
its citizenship program after Congress voted in 1996 to deny most public
benefits to non-citizens. But since then, Congress and the California
Legislature have restored Supplemental Security Income, food stamps and other
welfare benefits to immigrants who were in the country as of Aug. 22, 1996, the
day President Clinton signed the landmark welfare reform bill.

Wait up to two years

Since January 1997, when the county launched the citizenship program, the wait
for an interview with the INS has grown from six months to two years.

Santa Clara County officials said Tuesday they are optimistic about the new
program's potential impact. But given the previous lack of progress by the INS
in reducing citizenship lines, the officials were reluctant to make any rosy
predictions.

"I don't think the INS can stand another embarrassing increase in the backlog,"
said Blanca Alvarado, chairwoman of the county board of supervisors. "They're
going to have to produce results."

The new workers will each be paid $25,000 a year plus medical and other
benefits, instead of a welfare check. The contract by the county and the INS
runs for two years but could be extended. The workers are among the thousands
enrolled in the county's welfare-to-work program.

Originally, 10 people were supposed to start work today, but one woman was
excluded by the INS after a background check found that she is not yet a
citizen. INS rules require that its workers be citizens.

Ironically, the woman's application for citizenship is one of those caught in
the backlog, said George Soto, a manager with the county's social services
agency.

The welfare recipients will perform their first official duties today --
assisting in a naturalization ceremony -- after attending the news conference at
the San Jose Civic Auditorium.

Although staffing levels fluctuate, the INS has about 11 clerical workers in the
San Jose office working on the backlog, Rummery said. Fourteen summer interns
have left or are leaving this month, she said.

INS initially hesitant

Despite the heavy workload, the INS initially refused the county's repeated
offers because it erroneously believed the program would violate federal
regulations, said Jane Decker, deputy county executive. However, federal
officials later discovered a law that allows them to "borrow" personnel from
other government agencies as long as the employees have worked there for at
least three months. Consequently, the county hired the 10 welfare recipients
three months ago, as clerical workers in the social services agency, she said.

A spokeswoman for U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who has worked at the
federal level to increase staffing at the San Jose INS office, said the program
will have a dual effect.

"This is a tremendous win-win situation," said Mavis Toscano, Lofgren's chief of
staff. "Through this action we're able not only to address the backlog but to
actually help people who need jobs make a living."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 2, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT RIPS NEW LAW ON DEPORTATION CONSTITUTION CITED: LEGAL IMMIGRANTS CHARGED
WITH CRIMES CAN FIGHT EXPULSION IN COURT, PANEL SAYS.

BYLINE: BOB EGELKO, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Legal immigrants facing deportation under a new federal law for crimes,
including minor drug offenses, can fight their cases in court despite Congress'
attempt to eliminate judicial review, a federal appeals court ruled Tuesday.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the right of habeas corpus, older
than the United States and embodied in its Constitution, entitles a resident
immigrant to go to a federal judge with a constitutional challenge to a
deportation order.

"Elimination of all judicial review of executive detention violates the
Constitution," the court said in a 3-0 ruling.

The ruling covers thousands of immigrants in the circuit's nine western states,
said a lawyer for a Southern California man who won the right to contest his
expulsion from the United States.

"This is a ringing endorsement of the principle of judicial review," said Lucas
Guttentag, national director of the American Civil Liberties Union's
immigrants'-rights project. "It reaffirms the fundamental principle that the
government itself is not above the law, and that Congress cannot repeal the
oldest protection against government abuse, the writ of habeas corpus."

Although the ruling applies only to legal residents, the same principle could be
extended to illegal immigrants whose right to judicial review of deportation was
curtailed by the new law, said Marc Van Der Hout, who argued the case on behalf
of the National Lawyers' Guild.

Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Russell Bergeron said the INS
had not yet seen the ruling and would review it for a possible appeal. Another
appeals court, in Boston, reached the same result on different grounds in
mid-May.

Daniel Magana-Pizano entered California from Mexico in 1977, at age 5, as a
legal immigrant, the son of a legal U.S. resident. He was working as a forklift
operator in Oxnard when he pleaded guilty in 1995 to misdemeanor drug charges of
being under the influence of methamphetamine and cocaine.

In April 1996, President Clinton signed a law making non-citizens automatically
deportable for a variety of crimes, including virtually all drug crimes, without
court review and without the exceptions the law had provided.

One of those exceptions, called a waiver of deportation, had allowed longtime
legal residents to stay if they persuaded authorities that they had close family
ties to the United States and were rehabilitated. Attorney General Janet Reno,
who oversees the INS, said waivers would no longer be available to those who,
like Magana, had committed their crimes before the new law passed.

His suit contended the new law could not be applied to him after the fact. The
suit also claimed unconstitutional discrimination, because legal immigrants who
left the country and were stopped when they tried to return were still eligible
for waivers.

But the Justice Department had argued that courts could not even consider those
claims, because the new law eliminated judicial review of a convicted criminal's
deportation order.

An appeals court revived the suit after U.S. District Judge Stephen McNamee of
Arizona, where Magana was being held, ruled against Magana.

The court noted that the Constitution declares habeas corpus -- the right to
claim that one's rights are being violated by an imprisonment, detention or
deportation order -- cannot be suspended except during invasion or rebellion.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 4, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

3 REPEAT DRUNKEN DRIVERS ROUNDED UP FOR DEPORTATION

BYLINE: MADELINE BARO, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: HARLINGEN, Texas


More than 500 immigrants in Texas have been rounded up for deportation in a
crackdown on those with three or more drunken-driving convictions.

The immigrants -- most of them legal permanent residents, most of them from
Mexico -- were arrested beginning in early August in what was calledOperation
Last Call.

The arrests were made under the 1996 U.S. immigration reform law, which allows
deportation for an aggravated felony. In Texas, a third drunken-driving
conviction is a felony and, according to an immigration appeals ruling earlier
this year, a deportable offense under the 1996 law.

As of Thursday, 223 people had been arrested in Dallas, 104 in El Paso, 101 in
Harlingen, 76 in San Antonio and 33 in Houston, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Many were already behind bars on other offenses. Others
were arrested at home or at work.

The INS said the operation was meant to get repeat offenders off the streets and
serve as a warning about drunken driving over Labor Day weekend.

The program outraged immigrant-rights advocates, who said the arrests are unjust
and break up families. Most of those detained are men ages 31 to 40 who have
been in the United States for six to 10 years, INS official Lynn Ligon said.

Benigo Pena, executive director of the South Texas Immigration Council, said
many of those being detained are the main source of support for their families
and have paid for their crimes already.

"We're not questioning at all that DWI is a serious crime," Pena said. "What
we're questioning is if this person went before a court, was tried, convicted,
has shown remorse and it's time to pay back society -- that's the American way
of doing things."

Mothers Against Drunk Driving praised the INS action.

"This is not necessarily the draconian, heavy-handed measure I've heard it
described as," said Bill Lewis, public-policy liaison for the Texas office of
MADD. "It's not real easy to get a felony DWI -- you have to work at it. These
folks have committed a serious offense."

Those immigrants who ask for deportation hearings before immigration judges will
get them within a few days or a few weeks, the INS said. They will be held
behind bars unless those judges agree to set bail.

It was not clear whether other states would follow Texas' lead.

An official for the Western region of the INS said Operation Last Call was not
taking place in California. Bill Strassberger said agency officials in
California are concentrating on other, ongoing efforts aimed at deporting
criminals. Those efforts include a program in which agents regularly visit local
jails and identify legal and illegal immigrants who have committed serious or
violent crimes. "The priority here in California, and really the nation as far
as the INS goes, is the removal of criminals," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Edwin Garcia contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
INS officials Lynn Ligon, left, and Neil Jacobs appear in Dallas to describe an
effort to deport immigrants with three or more drunken-driving convictions.
[980904 FR 20A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    October 2, 1998 Friday PENINSULA EDITION

INS MAY DEPORT 40 AFTER ARRESTS IMMIGRANT CRIMINALS TARGET OF OPERATION

BYLINE: NOAM LEVEY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 524 words


Continuing its aggressive efforts to deport immigrants who commit crimes in the
United States, the Immigration and Naturalization Service on Thursday announced
the apprehension of 40 criminal offenders in San Mateo County.

The 38 men and 2 women, all of whom have been convicted of sex crimes, drug
offenses or domestic violence, face deportation back to their native countries,
according to the INS office in San Francisco, which coordinated the operation
with local law enforcement agencies.

The two-week initiative to arrest immigrants from Daly City to East Palo Alto
was a relatively small operation compared with the nearly 37,000 so-called
"criminal aliens" whom the INS deported in 1996. But it does highlight the
explosive growth in deportations of immigrants convicted of crimes in the United
States.

Criminal immigrants, who include those residing both legally and illegally in
this country, now comprise more than half of all people deported every year,
according to INS statistics.

Ten years ago, when the majority of people deported from the United States had
simply entered the country illegally, criminal offenders comprised less than a
quarter of all deportees.

The shift has been praised by immigration officials and some lawmakers who
support the tougher standards. "Those who repay our country's hospitality by
committing violent crimes can count on the INS's diligence in removing them from
the United States," San Francisco INS director Thomas J. Schiltgen said Thursday
in announcing the recent arrests.

And few dispute the need to deport serious criminals like those arrested in San
Mateo County. INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said half had been convictedof
molesting children, and at least one was a convicted rapist.

But the growing number of arrests and deportations has become a highly
controversial issue in immigrant communities nationwide. According to INS
statistics, deportations of criminal immigrants have increased sixfold since
1988.

Unlike the recent arrestees, many of the immigrants now being deported have not
committed violent crimes or sex crimes. Under new immigration laws, INS now
deports many who commit lesser crimes such as drug offenses and some thefts.

The new laws, passed in 1996, also make it impossible for convicted immigrants
to obtain deportation waivers, which were once possible if an immigrant's family
lived in the United States, if an immigrant had lived in this country for many
years or if an immigrant could show he or she was not likely to commit more
crimes.

Social service agencies, immigrant advocates and even some foreign governments
have criticized the new laws as draconian and a waste of taxpayer dollars. And
while governments such as Mexico will not fight them, local advocates say they
are vigorously opposing deportations less clear-cut than the ones carried out by
the INS in San Mateo County recently.

Thirty-one of the 40 recent arrestees were Mexican citizens, according to the
INS. The group also included three immigrants from Guatemala, two from Tonga and
one each from El Salvador, Honduras, the Philippines and Indonesia.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Noam Levey covers criminal justice on the Peninsula. He can be reached
weekdays at (650) 688-7577 or by e-mail at nlevey@sjmercury.com .

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 2, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITIZEN HOPEFULS CAN BEAT FEE HIKE

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS STAFF REPORT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 254 words


The Santa Clara County Citizenship Program will conduct a "citizenship blitz" of
educational meetings over the next two weeks to help immigrants file documents
before the citizenship application fee increases.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service will raise the rate from $95 to
$225 on Jan. 15. Applicants pay an additional $25 for fingerprints.

Critics say the increase puts citizenship out of the reach of poor, legal
immigrants. The INS says it needs to raise fees so that taxpayers are not
subsidizing the naturalization process.

The blitz at the Center for Employment Training at 701 Vine St. in San Jose will
be from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday through next Saturday and from 9 a.m. to 5
p.m. Jan. 10-11. Those interested can drop in during these hours.

Participants will receive free advice on how to apply and whether they qualify,
as well as free photos, free referrals to English and citizenship classes, and a
free copy of test questions.

To be eligible for citizenship, a person must be a lawful permanent resident for
at least four years and nine months or, if married to a U.S. citizen, two years
and nine months.

Those attending the blitz are asked to try to bring their residency card, Social
Security card, dates of absences from the United States, home andemployer
addresses for the past five years, marital history, spouse's and children's
dates of birth, court records for any crimes committed and a $95 check payable
to the INS (if they intend to apply).

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For more information call (408) 286-1698 (Spanish and English) or (408) 286-1448
(Vietnamese).

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 18, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS: LEAN TIMES ARE IN PAST BUDGET: NEW ALLOCATIONS OF MONEY FOSTER A FEELING OF
OPTIMISM.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 926 words


Gentlemen, start your engines.

That, in effect, was the word Wednesday from the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, whose agents had been ordered to cut down on driving to
save gas money as part of an embarrassing budgetary crisis that raised the ire
of Congress.

In announcing budget allocations for the rest of the fiscal year, INS officials
Wednesday insisted that the hard times are over.

"It's not the apocalyptic situation that has been portrayed," said Virginia
Kice, a spokeswoman at the INS western regional headquarters inLaguna Niguel.

Several weeks ago, the Mercury News reported that despite the INS' record $3.9
billion budget, immigration officials were being forced to make deep cuts. The
San Jose immigration office, for example, was forced to wipe out its clerical
overtime budget, hurting efforts aimed at digging out from under a mountainous
backlog of citizenship applications.

Investigative agents from around the country reported that their operations
budgets were being slashed more than 90 percent. In some cases, they said, they
were ordered to use walkie-talkies instead of pagers and cell phones.

U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, dashed
off letters to INS Commissioner Doris Meissner expressing concern that the San
Jose cuts would result in fewer illegal immigrants being deported and longer
citizenship lines.

Lois Camille Chappell, head of the San Jose office, could not be reached for
comment Wednesday. But David Still, the regional INS official in charge of
reducing the citizenship backlog, indicated that new budgetary allocations have
contributed to the newfound optimism at the office.

Still said the backlog stands at about 50,000 cases. But new computer and
fingerprinting systems and an infusion of new staffers have boosted the number
of citizenship applications processed to between 3,000 to 4,000 per month. A
year ago, Still said, the number was running at about 300.

He said local INS officials have been told they can authorize overtime with
discretion.

Embargo lifted

"The overtime embargo has been lifted to the extent we can get some bang for the
buck," he said.

Richard Hobbs, Santa Clara County's citizenship director, said one of the
biggest complaints is that the INS is processing applications out of order. So
the wait for a citizenship interview can range from six months to 30 months, he
said.

But Still said there is method to the seeming madness. Since the INS has a rule
that if fingerprints are more than 15 months old they must be retaken, he said,
officials are trying to get those people through the process before their prints
expire.

In any case, Kice said, the hardest-hit area of the INS won't be naturalization.
It will be the investigative branch, which deals with everything from immigrant
smuggling to workplace enforcement of immigration laws.

She estimated that investigative budgets will be cut about 30 percent, forcing
some tough decisions.

"I'm not going to tell you it'll be easy," Kice said. But local officials have
been told to notify their regional bosses if they believe critical operations
will be affected.

"We don't want someone picking up the phone and calling the media and telling
them that we're parking all our cars," she said.

Reasons for crunch

A Dec. 23 INS memo cited several reasons for the crunch. Michael Pearson,
executive associate commissioner, pointed to soaring rent and overtime and
telecommunication costs. In addition, staffing levels had risen so dramatically
that much of the INS' nearly 20 percent budget increase from the previous year
was gobbled up by personnel costs.

Last week, California Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Oxnard, and Rep. Lamar Smith, a
Texas Republican who chairs the House immigration subcommittee, criticized the
INS' performance in a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno and asked that
Meissner be replaced if changes weren't made quickly. Smith chided INS officials
after reading a newspaper article that said the agency had planned on releasing
undocumented immigrants with criminal records.

Meissner said Wednesday that the INS still is looking for ways to deal with a
shortage of detention space but has no plans to release illegal immigrants
convicted of such crimes as burglary, assault and drug offenses to make room for
offenders with more serious criminal records.

The Clinton administration plans to ask Congress for an additional $80million
this year for the 3,000 new detention beds it expects to need for Central
Americans who have fled or are fleeing the devastation of Hurricane Mitch,
Meissner said.

Not resigning

"I have no intention of resigning," Meissner told reporters Wednesday as she
announced that her agency would dispatch 1,600 new employees across the country
this year.

A thousand new Border Patrol agents will be deployed to beef up enforcement in
Arizona and Texas and to break smuggling rings that moved to the El Centro area
after a crackdown in San Diego. Meissner said the INS would send 485 agents to
Texas, 395 to Arizona, 83 to California, 15 to New Mexico and 22 to three places
on the United States border with Canada.

On Wednesday, Rep. Smith said he believed the INS had reversed itself.

"Common sense has prevailed at the INS," he said. "It is inconceivable why they
even considered an idea that would so endanger the public. . . . I am hopeful
that now the agency will focus on fixing its mismanagement of handling criminal
aliens to make the best use of its budget."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 19, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOW ALI SLIPPED BY INS SYSTEM SUSPECT HAD RECORD FOR BRUTAL KIDNAPPING

BYLINE: ALAN GATHRIGHT AND NOAM LEVEY, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 629 words


Two years before Mohammad Haroon Ali was arrested and accused of strangling
Tracey Biletnikoff, a U.S. immigration judge ruled Ali was not a public danger
and released him despite his earlier conviction in a brutal kidnapping.

Attorneys with the Immigration and Naturalization Service had urged the judge to
hold Ali pending a deportation hearing. But he was freed on $5,000 bond.

Ali now could face the death penalty if he is convicted of kidnapping and
murdering the 20-year-old daughter of former Oakland Raider receiver Fred
Biletnikoff, but news of his release in 1997 is prompting more questions about
how Ali slipped through the system.

"Judging from what he did earlier, the serious beating and kidnapping charges,
it should have made someone think twice about putting this guy back on the
streets," said an immigration official who asked not to be identified. "In
hindsight, a lot of people are going to look at this and say it's just another
example of a judge letting someone out who shouldn't have been let out."

Local INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said she couldn't comment on the
immigration judge's decision or on any bearing his ruling might have had on
Biletnikoff's death. "It was a terrible tragedy," she said.

New federal immigration laws were designed to remove violent immigrants such as
Ali to prevent further crime, and in recent years the INS has become more
aggressive about deporting so-called "criminal aliens."

But deportation proceedings can be lengthy, and the INS does not have enough
beds to lock up all immigrants awaiting deportation.

Because of lack of space, many felons awaiting hearings are housed in jails
around the country that are under contract with the INS. But many more, such as
Ali, are simply released on bail until an immigration judge decides their fate.

After his 1997 release on bond, Ali was not scheduled for anotherdeportation
hearing until July 1 of this year. Rummery could not explain why there was such
a long delay.

The immigration release isn't the only controversial break Ali got.

Ali was convicted in 1995 of kidnapping a 19-year-old woman at knife-point and
beating her until she blacked out. At his sentencing in San Mateo County,
prosecutors "argued vociferously for a state prison sentence," Chief Deputy
District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe said. Ali, then 20, faced nine years in
prison, but Superior Court Judge John G. Schwartz gave him a year in jail, five
years' probation and a shot at redemption through domestic violence counseling.

A year later, when Ali violated probation by using drugs, prosecutors again
urged a prison sentence, but Judge Margaret Kemp gave him six more months in
jail and extended his probation. She also ordered him to attend the drug
treatment program where he met Biletnikoff.

Ali was arrested Tuesday as he tried to re-enter the United States at the
Tijuana border after driving Biletnikoff's car to Mexico, authorities said. Her
body had been found hours earlier on an embankment in the Redwood City hills.

He became the prime suspect after a family member reported to police that Ali
phoned "claiming he killed his girlfriend" after a fight at a San Mateo drug
treatment center where the two former addicts had risen to counselors, according
to a law enforcement source.

Ali, who has been held in San Diego, was booked Thursday night into the San
Mateo county jail in Redwood City.

Biletnikoff's body was found clad in a blue, hooded sweatshirt and white socks,
with a black cloth wrapped around her neck, law enforcement sources said. Her
sweatpants were found nearby.

Ali, now 23, a native of Fiji who immigrated to the Bay Area in 1989, had
obtained permanent residence because of his parents' status as legal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: page 1B

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Biletnikoff
[990219 LO 1B]
PHOTO: Ali
[990219 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 6, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN LIMBO PRISONERS AWAITING DEPORTATION FACE OPEN-ENDED SENTENCES

BYLINE: T.T. NHU AND DAN REED, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2504 words


Fuad Hassan Ismail spent three 90-day stints inside United States jails because
of his petty crimes. Then he spent three straight years locked up because
Congress cracked down on law-breaking immigrants and because chaos ruled his
Somalia homeland.

The three additional years came without trial or sentence.

No rules of justice seemed to apply. The U.S. government had ordered him
deported. If Somalia wouldn't -- or couldn't -- take him back, well, too bad, he
might just stay locked up forever.

"They do the crime, they do the time, and then it's never-never land," said Kern
County sheriff's Cmdr. Brad Wilbert, who oversees a jail that holds more than
100 Immigration and Naturalization Service detainees.

Ismail was one of a swelling number of inmates snared by a welter of immigration
law reforms passed in 1996. His life was to be dull prison routine, seemingly
never-ending.

But last November, persistence, jailhouse lawyering, an ancient legal argument
and a bit of good fortune sprang him free. His example is now being followed by
scores of the approximately 1,990 other prisoners around the United States -- a
number that's growing each week. They are legal immigrants who have served their
time, were ordered deported, but remain jailed because their homelands will not
have them.

In the fervor to expel immigrants who commit crimes, even minor offenses,
Congress in 1996 passed two laws that expanded a class of immigrants -- many of
them family men who spent most of their lives in the United States -- who have
little hope of freedom. The INS crackdown has made the rate of detainees grow
faster than even the burgeoning general prison population. Their numbers jumped
42 percent in 1997, while the increase in federal and state inmates slowed to
5.2 percent from a decade-average growth of 7 percent.

These "lifers," to use INS slang, are at the whim of international diplomacy.
They have no right to paid legal counsel. They are never told when they might go
home. And American taxpayers are footing the bill -- nearly $24,000 a year for
each prisoner.

And even though some proponents of the strict new laws agree that the open-ended
sentences appear unfair, they believe it's better to keep the former criminals
locked up than free. If jailed until deportation, the detainees won't commit
more crimes, said Allen Kay, a congressional aide to U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, chairman of the House Immigration Subcommittee and leader of the 1996
reforms. And if they're released, he said, they'll probably not show up again
when they can be deported.

"If you let them out of detainment, they're gone," Kay said. INS figures back
that up. The agency estimates that only about 10 percent of the immigrants
ordered deported voluntarily turn themselves in to authorities.

Moreover, INS attorney Glyndell Williams argues that the indefinite detainees
forfeited their constitutional protections by their own bad behavior. "If an
alien commits an aggravated felony and is ordered deported," Williams said, "he
loses his lawful residence and has no right to due process."

Ismail has successfully argued otherwise. And his newly won freedom has inspired
a legal campaign, through the federal defenders office in Sacramento, that has
spread through California and may catch on across the nation. By last month,
more than 200 of the 312 prisoners in California, which is leading the way, had
joined in the counterattack to the 3-year-old immigration law reforms.

Ismail's legal filings finally persuaded a U.S. District Court judge to appoint
a federal defender to his case to decipher the tangle of immigration law and the
1996 reforms. Now Richard Cohen, the assistant federal defender who helped win
Ismail's freedom Nov. 23, has developed a fill-in-the-blanks petition for those
in similar legal limbo.

In the petitions, the inmates are attacking one of the newest laws with one of
the oldest legal arguments: the writ of habeas corpus, the right against
unlawful detention, the seeds of which can be found in law as far back as the
Magna Carta.

Last week, a federal judge released five more of Cohen's clients. His decision
on about 20 more inmates is expected in the coming weeks. Cohen's argument --
that it is unconstitutional to keep these prisoners jailedindefinitely -- could
liberate many who wake up every day behind bars, even though they long ago
served out their sentences.

"It's the right strategy," said Judy Rabinovitz, senior staff counsel for the
American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants Rights Project. The key to its
success, though, is an attorney dedicated to the case -- and paid to try it.
"What's so significant," she said, "is that in some of these cases, the court
saw what was going on and appointed counsel."

Problem two decades old

The INS now holds about 16,100 detainees in prisons across the country, up from
8,600 in 1996. Many of those will quickly be repatriated; some are seeking
asylum; but a growing number have little hope for release. In 1997, the INS held
1,262 non-Cuban indefinite detainees. As of Jan. 18, the number was 1,992.

And while the number has increased over the past year -- the figure wasn't even
tracked until 1997, the year after the reforms passed -- the problem itself has
vexed federal officials for nearly two decades.

In 1980, thousands of Cubans -- many of them criminals or mental patients freed
from jails and hospitals -- set sail to the United States from the port of
Mariel. Some were arrested here for crimes committed in Cuba; others for crimes
committed once on American shores. Fidel Castro refused to re-admit many of
them, so hundreds languished in U.S. prisons after serving their criminal
sentences.

Mariel prisoners, known as Marielitos, rioted in 1987 in Oakdale, La., and
Atlanta, and won from the government the right to have their cases reviewed
annually. By August 1998, 1,750 Marielitos remained confined by the United
States. There is another category of Cubans -- balseros (rafters) -- who arrived
in the summer of 1994 and remain in detention.

Unlike the Marielitos, no review guarantees have been set up for the balseros or
the non-Cuban long-term detainees, many of those snared by the 1996 reforms,
passed amid growing fears of terrorism after the World Trade Center bombing in
1993 and amid escalating anti-immigrant sentiment.

In two comprehensive bills, the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of
1996 and the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of
1996, Congress demanded, among other things, the deportation of more foreign
ex-convicts.

The legislation created more indefinite detainees in three ways.

It greatly expanded the crimes, called "aggravated felonies," for which
immigrants could be deported. The category was amended to include such offenses
as gambling, bribery, perjury and theft, and it dropped from five years to one
year the length of a sentence needed to qualify a crime as an aggravated felony.

Second, it greatly reduced the ability of aliens to get a waiver to deportation.
In the past, such waivers were granted to those who lived in the United States
for seven years, could show family ties and show that deportation would cause
hardship to U.S. citizens or lawful permanent residents.

Finally, it was made retroactive, so the INS could deport someone who committed
a burglary 10 years ago, served his sentence and lived cleanly since.

Heeding Congress, the INS has been combing through the prison population to
identify non-citizens and arrest them upon their release. And it has the money
to do it. The portion of the agency's budget that pays for detention and
deportation has mushroomed from $193 million in 1993 to $671 million last year.

But the lengthy sentences can seem cruel.

At Krome Avenue Detention Center in Florida sits Ethiopian Jew Lulseged Dine,
who was convicted of four misdemeanor counts of drug possession and has been
locked up since 1990, said his lawyer. Dine, 38, is the longest held non-Cuban
detainee, according to Don Kerwin, director of CLINIC, the Catholic Charities
Legal Immigration Network.

"It's not fair that they end up with a life sentence for shoplifting or a life
sentence for drugs, even," said Helen Morris, an attorney in Washington, D.C.,
for CLINIC. "It's not up to the INS to give anyone a life sentence. The criminal
justice system has dealt with these people, and it should be over."

INS officials say they're just doing the bidding of Congress. They're also
trying to review the cases of the indefinite detainees. So far, 621 of them have
been scheduled for interviews. Of those, INS district directors have decided 356
cases, authorizing release in 123 of them.

Going down the list

Kristine Marcy, who heads up the detention and deportation division of the INS,
said it may take a couple of years to work through the list of detainees. And
then, there is no guarantee the agency will release them.

The prisoners do have one more chance: The INS seems to be collecting more
prisoners than it can afford. Its budget funds 14,250 beds; but in its verve to
round up aliens under the reforms, the agency has imprisoned about 16,100
immigrants.

Russ Bergeron, the agency's director of public affairs, says the INS will make
additional funding requests to Congress within the next couple of weeks. If
denied the money, "we may have to start making some difficult decisions about
releasing people."

Lamar Smith, the Texas congressman who spearheaded the 1996 reforms, suggested
using decommissioned military bases to house the aliens, although Bergeron says
even that requires resources the INS simply does not have.

"What are the realistic options?" asked Allen Kay, Smith's spokesman. "The only
alternative is release them into the general population. And that's no
alternative at all."

After the Cubans, the next largest category of indefinite detainees is made up
of Vietnamese, followed by Highland Lao (Hmong and Iu Mien) and Cambodians --
mostly permanent residents who arrived as refugees since the end of the Vietnam
War in 1975.

"First, the U.S. brought them to this country with great fanfare," said the San
Francisco-based Vietnamese Consul General Nguyen Xuan Phong. "Now the U.S. wants
to kick them out in a big hurry because these fellows have committed crimes. At
the very least, they could have been taught how to behave like responsible
citizens. So now, because they're not wanted anymore, we have to see if we can
take them back."

Arbitrary detention

Last year, Human Rights Watch, after an 18-month study of INS detainees,
reported that many inmates were confused, frustrated or scared by their
situation. Many said they were kept in the dark about the status of their cases,
and some had no idea why they were locked up.

Allyson Collins, senior researcher on U.S. issues for Human Rights Watch, said
the handling of the long-term detainees was particularly egregious. "When it
becomes indefinite, it becomes arbitrary," she said. "And arbitrary detention is
prohibited by international human-rights treaties."

Ismail knows the routine -- and the frustration.

He was born in Yemen 37 years ago, the son of Somali parents -- his mother a
homemaker, his father a worker for British Petroleum.

When he was 16, he made his first trip to his homeland, a summer escape to visit
his grandmother back in Somalia. But worried about clan warfare, his family had
to smuggle him back across the border to keep him clear of the fighting.

"That was my first and last time (in Somalia)," Ismail said recently, in
careful, accented English, as he recounted his tale.

In 1984, he came to the United States to go to school, but had little financial
support from his family. He worked odd jobs, settling near Mount Vernon in
Washington state.

And he became a drunk.

At 31, after having a clean slate, he became a master of petty, non-violent
crimes. Arrests followed for public urination, littering, low-grade drug
offenses.

"I had an alcohol problem, and when you have the alcohol, you don't care
anymore. You're not focused," he said.

No sentence, according to his lawyer's legal pleadings, was for more than 90
days.

Letter campaign

In February 1996, after he was ordered deported for his repeated minor crimes
and after serving his penalty for them, the INS confined him in a Yuba County
jail in Marysville. No one would say when he might be released, or much of
anything else.

"I started a series of letters to the INS -- sent letters to regional
headquarters, Seattle, D.C.," he said. "They didn't answer."

He had no right to a paid government attorney, because expulsion is considered
an administrative, not judicial, act -- even though deporting immigrants who may
have lived here most of their lives to countries where they know no one and
whose language they do not speak can be more severe than most criminal
penalties.

"INS just dumped me in Yuba County. Nothing," he said. "I didn't sit still. I
was knocking on their doors, at their windows all the time. So I finally decided
to file a petition of habeas corpus."

It was a move that eventually led to his freedom, and may lead to the freedom of
others.

"Ismail is the one who got the ball rolling by filing a handwritten petition,"
said Cohen, the federal defender. "Everything flows from his work."

Once Ismail's petition made it far enough in the legal system, U.S. District
Judge John Moulds took the unusual step of appointing Cohen to his case.

In his pleadings, the lawyer essentially argued that to keep Ismail locked up
after he served his time denied him due process, guaranteed in the Fifth
Amendment. The government countered that the right did not apply to Ismail, a
non-citizen who has been ordered out of the country.

Moulds sided with Ismail.

As word spread among prisoners of Cohen's success, his office created the
fill-in-the-blanks petition, and distributed them from Sacramento to Fresno.
"We're the people that started doing it on an industrial scale," he said, "but
we certainly won't be the last. All hell will be breaking loose soon, as more
and more people are going to be seeking release from the courts."

For Ismail, he's swearing off the booze and has returned to the Seattle area,
where he's looking for work and living in Salvation Army quarters.

"If you do something wrong, you're punished," he said. "There's a certain time,
but it cannot be all your life."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
IN JUDICIAL LIMBO
More than one-ninth of the prisoners detained by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service as of last December were indefinite detainees, even
though many had been convicted only of petty crimes.  That is because federal
law calls for them to be deported for their crimes, but the INS has nowhere to
deport them to.
Total INS detainees
INS indefinite detainees
INS detention, deportation budget

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: REFORM LAWS
In the fervor to expel immigrants who commit crimes, Congress in 1996 passed two
laws that expanded a class of immigrants who have little hope of freedom.
TAX PAYER COST
The cost to U.S. taxpayers is about $24,000 per year, per detainee.
DUE PROCESS
Critics say keeping scheduled deportees in jail past the end of their sentences
amounts to unconstitutional denial of due process.
INS VIEW
Immigration-reform backers say jailing law-breaking immigrants indefinitely
keeps them off the streets and prevents their evading eventual
deportation.Immigration Officials Throw Away The Keys

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Chart;
PHOTO: RICHARD WISDOM -- MERCURY NEWS
Ma Moua, firstborn in a family of nine children, left his extended family behind
when he was taken to prison for a parole violation. They are, from left, Tang
Moua, Ko Moua, Sia Thao, Sia Young, Moe Moua, Ka Moua, Pa Moua, Mary Moua, Bi
Moua and Gene Moua.
[990306 FR 9A]
PHOTO: Ismail
[990306 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 27, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JURY INDICTS THREE IN IMMIGRATION PROBE

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 109 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE


A San Jose federal grand jury has indicted three South Bay residents, accusing
them of conspiring to bribe immigration officials to get green cards for
clients.

Resulting from an undercover sting operation by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the indictment returned this week names John Choe, 56,
and Cherie Choe, 50, both of Fremont, and Song Ja Byun, 55, of San Jose.

The two-count indictment alleges that the defendants met several times with
undercover officials, at one point paying $15,000 to obtain the immigration
registration cards for eight people.

The three were arraigned Thursday and released on $50,000 bail.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Community News Briefs

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 8, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOCUS ON NEEDS OF IMMIGRANTS GAP IN SERVICES WORRIES FORUM PARTICIPANTS

BYLINE: BEN STOCKING, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 325 words


Gathering in a county where one-third of the residents are foreign-born, about
400 people spent Friday brainstorming about ways to meet the needs of a
burgeoning immigrant population.

Addressing the needs of immigrants is one of the region's most pressing
challenges, said Richard Hobbs, director of Santa Clara County's citizenship and
immigration program.

"The face of this county is undergoing a total transformation," said Hobbs, who
helped organize Friday's program at the Wyndham Hotel in San Jose. "We are the
center of demographic change in Northern California."

The event drew representatives of dozens of county departments and non-profit
groups that help immigrants and refugees adjust to life in Santa Clara County.

Forum participants said they fear that many immigrants are still suffering the
consequences of changes in federal welfare and immigration laws enacted in 1996.
They want to make sure that local organizations fill any gaps in immigrant
services.

"The safety net has been taken away from many legal immigrants and has been
completely shredded for any legal immigrant entering after Aug. 22, 1996," Hobbs
said.

Forum participants gathered in a half-dozen hotel conference rooms to hash out
issues such as housing, employment, education, job training and health.

They scrawled their concerns on large sheets of white paper and posted them on
the walls: "Child care needed!" "Lack of culturally competent services."
"Low-income people cannot afford housing in this county."

Friday's forum was the first step in a process that is expected to unfold over
the next 18 months, said Rudy Gonzalves, who helped organize the event.
Ultimately, the group will come up with a comprehensive agenda aimed at meeting
the needs of immigrants.

"There is a tremendous need for more research on immigrants as a community in
our county," said Gonzalves, manager of the Services, Immigrant Rights and
Education Network.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 19, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THAILAND DETAINS VIET EXILE ON IMMIGRATION CHARGES FUNDRAISING IN U.S. RAN AFOUL
OF STATE LAW

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand


The leader of an overseas Vietnamese anti-communist group has been detained by
Thai immigration authorities, his colleagues and Thai officials said Tuesday.

Nguyen Huu Chanh, a Southern California resident who is general secretary of the
self-styled "Government of Free Vietnam," was detained May 12 in the southern
city of Hat Yai "for a minor infraction of immigration rules," said a news
release faxed from his group.

The group's office is in Garden Grove, and Chanh is a resident of Westminster.

Chanh was expelled from Thailand last June after holding a series of meetings
with other anti-communist Vietnamese exiles. News reports at the time said he
had been declared persona non grata by Thai immigration police.

The group's news release said Chanh had been transferred to the Immigration
Detention Center in Bangkok and that Vietnamese government officials had been
"allowed to interrogate" him while in custody.

Thai immigration officials confirmed that Chanh was in custody, saying he was on
a blacklist, but declined to give any other details. The officials, speaking on
condition of anonymity, said they expected him to be deported.

Chanh has also been in trouble with authorities in the United States. In July
last year, the California state Department of Corporations ordered Chanh and his
associates to stop selling "gold reserve depository bearer bonds" which were
ostensibly to raise funds for their movement.

"While the department takes no position with regard to the politics or the
viability of the organization, 'Government of Free Vietnam' is illegally
soliciting investments in California," a news release quoted Commissioner of
Corporations Dale E. Bonner as saying.

"Political and charitable fundraising is perfectly proper, but not if the
offerings are dressed up as investments and offered through the investment
marketplace," he said.

According to the department, "The bond offerings were made by a British West
Indian company in Barbados called the C.S.I. Ag's Corporation. The bonds
purportedly pay 5.5 percent annually to the bondholders and are allegedly backed
up by $500 million in gold in Chile, South America, that has yet to be mined."

Chanh's group won attention in Thailand at the end of April last year when it
held its "Third Annual Conference of the Government of Free Vietnam" on the
Thai-Cambodian border. The event, with a claimed attendance of about250 people,
was raided by Thai police, and the group claimed it was later attacked by
Cambodian troops.

Thai press reports said the group had been conducting guerrilla military
training in Thailand's Trat province and that the authorities cracked down after
a protest from the government of Vietnam. The group claims to have bases inside
Cambodia, which is a neighbor of Vietnam.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 24, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION ANGUISH: MAN STUCK IN MEXICO

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1178 words


Manuel Fernandez had a choice. He could follow his heart. Or he could follow the
letter of U.S. immigration law.

Because he chose his heart and rushed to Mexico to see his dying father,
Fernandez, an award-winning tennis pro who teaches hundreds of Bay Area kids, is
now stranded in Guadalajara.

Without his wife. Without his successful career. Without any certainty about
returning to Santa Clara anytime soon.

Fernandez's case highlights one of the many vagaries of immigration law: Leaving
the United States for a family emergency can immediately change your immigration
status. And, no matter how good the reason, there's no guarantee that
Immigration and Naturalization Service officials will let you back into the
country.

"You are abandoning your application for adjustment of status once you leave,"
explained Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the INS regional office in San
Francisco.

Fernandez's nightmare began on April 21, when his mother called from Mexico to
tell him his 69-year-old father was gravely ill and that he needed to come to
Guadalajara immediately.

Waiting for green card

But there was one huge problem. Although he had always strictly adhered to
immigration laws and is married to an American citizen, Fernandez had yet to
receive his green card after nearly a two-year wait. That meant he was not
allowed to travel outside the country without the approval of immigration
officials.

"My mom told me I would probably not see my dad again if I didn't come,"
Fernandez, 28, said in a phone interview from Guadalajara. "No matter what, I
had to go. My dad was my best friend."

Despite the bureaucratic hurdles in Fernandez's way, Rummery indicated Friday
that Bay Area INS officials are sympathetic and are trying to come up with a
solution to help him find his way home.

Fernandez would not be in the spot he's in today if he had obtained what the INS
calls "advance parole." Essentially, it's a permission slip that allows
non-permanent residents to return to the country from which they came.

But Fernandez did not receive the call from his mother until about 1:30 p.m.,
when he was at the San Francisco Tennis Club giving lessons. He immediately
called his lawyer, Charlie Sutton, who prepared the INS documents while
Fernandez raced down to Sutton's Sunnyvale office.

It was too late, however, because San Jose's INS office had closed at 3 p.m.

So Fernandez's wife, Lori, called the immigration office at San Francisco
International Airport. An officer there told her there would be no problem if
her husband showed U.S. immigration officers in Mexico a copy of his father's
death certificate.

"I was told not to worry, that this was something that happened all the time,"
said Lori, 23.

Manuel's father, who had taught him how to play tennis, died of an apparent
heart attack before he and Lori arrived in Guadalajara on the morning of April
22. After the funeral, the Fernandezes entered an immigration Twilight Zone of
poor timing, bad advice and bureaucratic pingpong.

U.S. Consulate officials in Guadalajara advised the couple to head to the
embassy in Mexico City or the border in Tijuana. After the Fernandezes took an
eight-hour bus ride to the capital, embassy officials told them that it would
take one to three months to get the necessary paperwork approved -- assuming it
was approved. They suggested the couple head to Tijuana.

In Tijuana, a friendly officer assured Manuel Fernandez that the office
routinely issued "humanitarian parole" in such cases. Don't worry, he said.

The next morning, though, an INS officer in the Special Cases Office told
Fernandez that he needed to get the humanitarian parole from the office handling
his green card application. So Sutton, his attorney, went to the San Jose INS
office, only to learn that humanitarian parole was issued at the San Francisco
district office. But, an official in San Jose warned Sutton, it was nearly
impossible to get.

The news meant that Lori, an honors student studying nutrition at San Jose State
University, and her parents, Jim and Kathleen Buckmaster, had to drive back to
Santa Clara while the tennis pro flew back to Guadalajara.

'It broke my heart'

"It seemed that all my dreams and years of hard work were suddenly gone,"
Fernandez said. "Everyone was crying so hard. Lori was going north. I was going
south. It broke my heart."

As soon as they returned to the Santa Clara home Lori and Manuel shared with her
parents, the Buckmasters went to the San Francisco INS office. The visit, said
Kathleen Buckmaster, "made me lose faith in America."

One INS clerk would not accept the death certificate of Fernandez's father
because it was in Spanish, rudely telling Jim Buckmaster to send it back to
Guadalajara to get it translated, the Buckmasters said.

Lori, a lifelong resident of Santa Clara, had met her husband while on vacation
in Cabo San Lucas in August 1996. They got married in Santa Clara in July 1997.

Fernandez, who came here on a tourist visa, went to the San Jose INS office to
get a work permit while he applied for permanent residency. Because of a severe
paperwork backlog at the office, he's still waiting for his green card. He had
been hoping to get the required INS interview this summer.

In the meantime, Fernandez's career as a tennis pro took off like a Mark
Philippoussis serve. When Fernandez was forced to leave for Mexico, he was
teaching 60 or 70 hours a week. In addition to working for the city of San Jose
and the San Francisco Tennis Club, he also gave private and semiprivate lessons.

Laura Hardy, the tennis program coordinator for San Jose's parks and recreation
department, said Fernandez is great with children and normally teaches about 100
of them during the summer at Paul Moore Park.

"It's been kind of crazy -- a lot of upset parents and kids," Hardy said. "They
really miss him. They just don't understand what the problem is."

Weston Reese, master professional at the San Francisco Tennis Club, had recently
nominated Fernandez to be the United States Professional Tennis Association's
rookie pro of the year in Northern California. He won the award and was
scheduled to receive it on April 24.

"He's a wonderful tennis pro," Reese said. "He's charismatic and motivates
people, yet puts them at ease. Unfortunately, now we're at the point where we
may have to replace him."

Colleen Yaccarine of Almaden Valley, her 9-year-old daughter, Alexandrea, and
her 6-year-old son, Jared, all take lessons from Fernandez.

"My daughter is really upset," Yaccarine said. "She keeps saying, 'Mommy, can we
just take the papers and bring it to him so he can come home?"'

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who has written a letter to the INS on Fernandez's
behalf, said Friday that she hopes the agency makes an extra effort to help him.
"There's no benefit to America or to his wife or his students to keep him in
Mexico," she said.

Said Fernandez: "I feel frustrated, angry and really sad. But if I had to make
the decision again, I'd do it exactly the same way."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Lori Fernandez and husband Manuel went to Mexico to see Manuel's dying
father. Her husband has been unable to come back to Santa Clara because he left
without a written OK from INS.
[990524 FR 12A]
PHOTO: Manuel Fernandez
Bay Area tennis pro went to see his dying father and is now stranded in Mexico.
[990524 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 28, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BIG RETURN: TENNIS PRO BACK IN U.S. SANTA CLARA MAN IS BACK FROM MEXICO AFTER
INS REVERSAL

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1047 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA


Manuel Fernandez's immigration nightmare had a fairy-tale ending.

Fernandez walked across the U.S.-Mexico border Thursday morning, minutes after
U.S. immigration officers gave the Santa Claran permission to return to the
country, ending his virtual exile in Mexico.

The popular tennis pro's eyes welled with tears as he embraced and kissed his
wife, Lori, as they emerged from the San Ysidro border crossing station.

"I'm just so happy and relieved that I'm going home, back to my job, back to my
wife, students and friends," said Fernandez, 28, a Mexican national who has
taught tennis to hundreds of Bay Area youngsters.

Only a few days ago, a distraught, perplexed Fernandez faced the real
possibility of spending the next year or two in Mexico while he waited for a
green card. That's because he technically abandoned his application for
permanent U.S. residence when he and Lori left for Guadalajara on April 21 to
see his dying father.

Immigration and Naturalization officials said Fernandez's situation involved a
technicality they were happy to overrule.

"People here do have hearts," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the INS's
Western regional office.

Fernandez's students were thrilled. "I can't stop jumping up and down," said
9-year-old Alexandrea Yaccarine of San Jose, who has been taking lessons from
Fernandez for a year and a half. "He's so nice -- and very patient and
encouraging."

Fernandez never got to see his dad, who died apparently of a heart attack before
the couple arrived in Guadalajara. Then, the Fernandezes discovered to their
horror that Manuel had not only lost his father, he had also lost his
immigration status, even though he is married to an American citizen.

In his rush to see his father, Fernandez left without getting written permission
from the INS. So by law, he was barred from re-entering the country.

He and his wife visited U.S. immigration offices in Mexico City and Tijuana. His
attorney and in-laws went to INS offices in San Jose and San Francisco. But all
they got was conflicting advice and bad news.

So Lori, a student at San Jose State University, was forced to leave her husband
in Mexico while she finished the school year. Manuel began lining up tennis
instructor jobs in his homeland.

Lori, 23, gave up her waitressing job and prepared to fly to Guadalajara on
Wednesday to spend the summer with her husband.

After Manuel's case was reported by the Mercury News this week, however, top INS
officials moved quickly to remedy the situation. They said the case should never
have gotten to the point it did.

Fernandez's case, Strassberger said, was favorably resolved because he was
obviously an immigrant who was honest and had always scrupulously followed the
law.

The "humanitarian parole" granted Fernandez, given in exceptional cases only,
can only be approved by a director of an INS district or port of entry. In this
case, it was granted by the San Diego district director with the approval of
Chuck DeMore, acting director of the San Francisco district, which includes San
Jose.

"There's some discretion built into the law that allows people, not lawbooks, to
make the decision," Strassberger said.

Fernandez will have to reapply for his green card, but INS officials said he
will be credited for the nearly two years he has spent waiting for one.

When Lori received word this week that INS officials were trying to resolve the
situation, she canceled her plans to go to Guadalajara and instead drove to
Tijuana with her parents, Jim and Kathleen Buckmaster. Lori told her husband to
fly to Tijuana to meet them.

The plan was to try one more time at the border. The Fernandezes came armed with
an English translation of Manuel's father's death certificate, copies of their
own birth certificates, their marriage license, a letter from San Jose
Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren and a letter and request for a waiver of INS rules
filled out by Sunnyvale attorney Charlie Sutton.

Wednesday's rendezvous had an inauspicious start -- which couldn't be blamed on
the INS.

Manuel's flight from Guadalajara arrived on time at 6:30 p.m. He came bearing
gifts -- red roses for Lori and a lamp for her parents.

But his wife and in-laws weren't at the airport. So after a stressful hour and a
half, he caught a taxi to the Pueblo Amigo hotel, where Lori and her parents
were waiting for him in the lobby -- which they thought was the plan all along.

Manuel, Lori and her parents all got up early the next morning to head to the
INS's Special Cases Office on the Tijuana side of the border. They were first in
line when the doors opened at 8 a.m.

Exactly one month before, Lori and Manuel had spent seven hours at the office,
only to be told that they had to go to the San Jose INS office for humanitarian
parole. Sutton, Fernandez's attorney, went there, only to be told that the
parole was nearly impossible to get -- and it was only obtainable in San
Francisco.

Thursday morning was different. It was obvious that immigration officers were
waiting for the Fernandezes to arrive -- and that the parole had already been
granted.

They were kept waiting less than a half-hour and, after paying a $95 penalty,
were handed the necessary documentation and told to proceed directly to the
border.

Ironically, the immigration officer looked at Fernandez's Mexican passport --
which contained an outdated tourist visa -- and hardly gave the other parole
document a look.

"Ninety five dollars -- that's expensive," he said.

"This your boyfriend?" the officer asked Lori.

"No," she replied, laughing. "He's my husband."

On the drive back to Santa Clara, Fernandez said he was eager to get back to
work. He teaches 60 or 70 hours giving private and semiprivate lessons for the
city of San Jose and the San Francisco Tennis Club.

"I've gotten so many calls about him," said Laura Hardy, San Jose's tennis
program coordinator. "This whole thing just sounds so ridiculous. It's
unfortunate that it had to happen to someone like him who follows the rules,
works hard and pays his taxes."

For his part, Fernandez said he hoped others could learn from his case.

"I want to become a citizen," he said. "Maybe then I can make sure this doesn't
happen to anyone else."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FOR HELP, START AT THE TOP
You are a recent immigrant waiting for a green card -- and you have a family
emergency in your home country.
The best thing to do is get written permission in advance from the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. But if you feel you have no choice but to take the
next flight out, what should you do?
Go to the top for a "humanitarian parole," say Immigration and Naturalization
officials.
While you're out of the country, have an immigration attorney send or fax
documentation of the emergency to the director of the regional office where you
filed your green card application. For most Bay Area residents, that means
applying to the San Francisco district office. The current acting director is
Chuck DeMore. His address is 630 Sansome St., Suite 1240, San Francisco, Calif.
94111.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN - MERCURY NEWS
Manuel Fernandez and his wife, Lori, wait anxiously in an INS office in Tijuana
on Thursday for word on whether he would be able toreturn to his life in Silicon
Valley.
[990528 FR 1A]
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN - MERCURY NEWS
Manuel Fernandez and his wife, Lori, cross the border from Mexico at Tijuana on
Thursday morning. The Mexican citizen was not allowed to return for more than a
month after leaving the country to see his dying father.
[990528 FR 1A]
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN - MERCURY NEWS
Manuel Fernandez and his wife, Lori, wait in an INS office in Tijuana on
Thursday for word on his application to return to the U.S.
[990528 FR 17A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 29, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DEPORTED TO CHINA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 103 words


U.S. immigration officials returned to China the first group of immigrants from
the approximately 1,000 caught being smuggled in recent months to Guam, where
American immigration laws apply. The 101 Chinese nationals had been detained on
the island of Tinian, north of the U.S. territory of Guam, before they boarded a
flight early Friday morning for China, said officials with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Officials also said that 51 people have been indicted on federal human smuggling
charges since last May. Of them, 29 were convicted and are currently serving
sentences of up to 41 months.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 5, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT: ADMITTED SPY CAN BE DEPORTED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 85 words


A U.S. immigration court has ruled that a Cuban man who confessed to spying for
his homeland may be deported from the United States, the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service said Friday. The U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals ruled
that Jorge Luis-Rodriguez, a Cuban citizen arrested in April 1996 by FBI and INS
agents in Miami, could be deported under laws barring "any activity to violate
any law of the United States related to espionage." The INS had appealed a 1996
dismissal of the deportation.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 5, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT SAYS INS CAN REVOKE CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 306 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Federal immigration authorities can revoke an immigrant's naturalized
citizenship if it was obtained by fraud, a federal appeals court ruled Friday in
a case that could affect more than 4,500 immigrants nationwide.

The 2-1 ruling by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturns an injunction
issued last July by a federal judge in Seattle. The judge found that Immigration
and Naturalization Service authority to revoke citizenship was open to serious
question, and halted INS revocation proceedings until thesuit went to trial.

Most of the cases involve an alleged failure to disclose an immigrant's past
arrests.

Jonathan S. Franklin, a lawyer for the immigrants, said he would ask the full
appellate court for a rehearing.

"Citizenship is among a person's most cherished rights," he said. "This is the
first time any court has ever held that the INS may take that right away on its
own, without going before a judge."

Franklin said one of the nine lead plaintiffs in the class-action suit was sent
a notice of revocation for failing to reveal her arrest for possessing a
marijuana plant that turned out to be a fern. Another plaintiff's undisclosed
arrest was a case in which a judge had dismissed the charge and told the man to
treat it as though it had never happened, Franklin said.

INS spokeswoman Elaine Komis said the agency had not seen the ruling and would
have no comment.

The dispute arises from a 1990 federal law that authorized the INS to grant
citizenship to qualified immigrants, a role previously reserved to the courts.

The INS also claimed authority to revoke citizenship without going to court,
though a denaturalized citizen could seek court review.

The law did not expressly grant the INS revocation authority, but the appeals
court said it was implicit in the power to naturalize.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 26, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS HAD ALLEGED SERIAL KILLER IN CUSTODY, BUT RELEASED HIM

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


The man wanted in connection with eight slayings committed near railroad tracks
was in the custody of immigration officials earlier this month but was let go,
federal authorities said Friday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested Rafael Resendez-Ramirez in
the El Paso area during the week of June 1 for being in this country illegally
and deported him to Mexico later that day, the FBI said. INS officials said they
were unaware he was wanted for questioning in four killings at the time.

"I'm not going to discuss whether it was a mechanical error or an error at all,"
said Don Clark, special agent in charge of the Houston FBI office and head of a
task force pursuing him.

"I don't think it's a blow to our investigation," he said. "Clearly we would
like to have him right this minute. We would have liked to have him some time
ago, but what it does do is give us the most current photograph we can get out
to the public in hopes somebody may have seen this person."

The INS took a photo of Resendez-Ramirez, a master of disguise, on June 2 that
shows him with a mustache and without glasses, said agency official Russ
Bergeron. In earlier photos he has had glasses and other facial hair. He has
also been photographed cleanshaven.

Four of the eight slayings linked to Resendez-Ramirez have occurred since he was
taken into custody and released soon thereafter. Two were in Texas and two were
in Illinois.

An FBI task force of more than 200 investigators has been fielding hundreds of
tips since Resendez-Ramirez, believed to be 38, went on the agency's 10 Most
Wanted list Monday. A $125,000 reward is posted for his capture.

He has been charged with the two slayings in Illinois and is suspected of a 1997
Kentucky killing and five since last fall in Texas. A common thread is that the
crimes occurred in homes near railroad tracks; authorities believe he traverses
the country aboard freight trains.

He has a history of slipping into the United States illegally since 1976, has
served state prison time in New Mexico and Florida and had been deported at
least four times.

Clark refused to blame the INS for releasing Resendez-Ramirez but acknowledged
some frustration when learning the man had been picked up and released.

"Mr. Ramirez has not slipped through our fingers. This is another piece of lead
information for us. We're acting on it as soon as we got it, and we've just
gotten the photograph yesterday."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Resendez-Ramirez
[990626 FR 18A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 28, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAW NEEDS FLEXIBILITY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1033 words


IT is upsetting to see how a law instituted to control and regulate illegal
immigrants can destroy a family ("Legally separated," Page 1B, June 14). The
lives of Lili Martinez -- who is now in Peru, banned from this country for
overstaying a tourist visa -- her daughter and her husband are being destroyed
by it.

The Martinezes are not criminals, and they should not be treated as such. The
United States brings in many refugees from different countries. Our country
spends large amounts of money to give these people the protection and caring
that they need. How can we be so sympathetic toward some and cruel to others?

We all can understand the spirit of the law and why it is necessary, but it
should be humane enough to allow for exceptions.

Pepe Zuniga
San Jose
A daughter's view

I offer a slightly different perspective about the "trigger-happy cop" debate.

I am the daughter of an officer who has served his community for over 25 years.
He has had to fire his gun only five times during his career; each time, his
life depended on his ability to defend himself. Had he been unable to defend
himself, I would have lost my dad long ago.

Each time our officers go out for a shift, they put their lives on the line to
make our community a safer place to live and work. I have opened the paper or
turned on the news too many times to learn about an officer killed in the line
of duty, and each time, my heart catches in my throat. The officer might very
well be my dad.

We have only to look as far as the context and stress under which officers make
their decisions to understand. Ultimately, police officers are human beings with
families to live for. I have lived my entire life with the knowledge that my dad
might not come home alive because he pursues or stops someone who is too strung
out or scared to make logical decisions. If he were unable to have access to the
tools to protect himself, I could not live with this reality. And I know that
when officers kill someone in the line of duty, that person's death hangs heavy
in their heart. I've seen it first-hand -- when my daddy came home to his family
alive.

Shannon S. Churchey
San Jose
Contract was affordable

IT is unfortunate that it took "16 months of rancorous negotiations"(Opinion,
June 23) for Alum Rock School District to settle its labor dispute. However, the
school board is to be commended for improving salaries and the preparation time
necessary for the professional staff to provide quality instruction for their
students. It is, of course, incumbent for the board, in cooperation with the
community and their employees, to develop a balanced budget that will support
that settlement.

I am concerned with your editorial's reference to San Jose Unified declaring
"bankruptcy because of a teachers contract the board had approved but the
district could not afford." The district could have afforded that contract
settlement. I was intimately involved with the process at that time and, in my
opinion, they chose not to because the district wanted to get rid of their
contract with the San Jose Teachers Association. Declaring bankruptcy was a
union-busting tool successfully used in the private sector in the early '80s and
may have been the district's inspiration.

Whether it was or not, throwing out their contract would have allowed the
district to not only reduce salaries, but also to cut preparation time and other
professional contract provisions. The courts did allow the district to declare
bankruptcy, but froze the salaries while preserving the contract.

It is important to those of us who struggled to maintain quality instruction in
our classrooms and equitable treatment at the bargaining table to dispel the
myth that "the district could not afford" our contract.

Roger Evans
San Jose
Inciting a bonfire

SO, the House of Representatives voted to amend the Constitution to allow for
legislation to ban flag burning (Page 4A, June 25).

I am no flag burner. I have never burned the American flag, or any other flag,
in protest. I have never burned anything in protest. But, geez, that vote
certainly is fightin' words.

If the amendment ever makes its way into the Constitution, I will begin flag
burning. And for no other reason than that a bunch of spineless members of
Congress told me I can't.

Eric Dew
Sunnyvale
Patients' rights

IT'S good to see somebody publishing an intelligent perspective on the highly
disappointing White House Conference on Mental Health (Perspective, June 20).

It's meaningless to talk about removing the "stigma" from people who have been
deprived of all rights except to submit to the latest fashion in "treatment."
The removal of rights equals stigmatization.

In the case of criminals it is often for good reason. Psychiatric patients
shouldn't be treated like criminals unless they have performed recognizably
criminal acts. Sally Zinman's article is one of the few public statements of
this much-ignored fact.

Nina Wouk
Menlo Park
Law and officers

IT is appalling that the Fraternal Order of Police could try to protect abusive
cops (Opinion, June 14). Officers who cross the line and abuse their wives,
girlfriends, children, citizens, etc., should not only be fired, they should be
prosecuted to the full extent of the law.

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's office prosecutes non-law enforcement
people at the slightest hint of abuse. When it comes to law enforcement
officers, a different standard seems to apply.

If police think that retroactive sentencing in cases of abuse is so unfair, why
did they overwhelmingly support California's "three strikes" initiative? It is
clear that there is one law for them and one law for the rest of us.

Darryl Williams
Executive director, Citizen Tribunal
San Jose
Enforce zoning laws

THE article about the paving of front yards for vehicle parking in San Jose(Page
1B, June 21) missed a leading cause.

The widespread use of single-family residences for multi-family use adds many
vehicles per property. Enforcement of zoning laws would distribute these
vehicles over a wider area and, better yet, add to the property tax rolls.

Frank Smith
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 1, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS ALLOWS SIX CUBANS TO STAY AFTER PROTESTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 122 words


U.S. immigration authorities Wednesday released six Cuban boat people who
grappled with Coast Guard pursuers off a Florida beach a day earlier in front of
television cameras after angry protests by Cuban-Americans.

The migrants, aboard a 12-foot wooden boat, were surrounded by Coast Guard
vessels a few hundred yards off Surfside, just north of Miami Beach. The Cubans
jumped into the water and tried to swim to shore. Live TV broadcasts showed
Coast Guard crews spraying the tiny boat with a fire hose and firing pepper
spray at one of the men. Hundreds of callers telephoned the Coast Guard to
complain and protests broke out. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
released the six to relatives Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Beachgoers cheer for a Cuban man headed to shore after eluding Coast Guard boats
Tuesday in the water near Surfside, Fla.
[990701 FR 5A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 1, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS ALLOWS SIX CUBANS TO STAY AFTER PROTESTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 122 words


U.S. immigration authorities Wednesday released six Cuban boat people who
grappled with Coast Guard pursuers off a Florida beach a day earlier in front of
television cameras after angry protests by Cuban-Americans.

The migrants, aboard a 12-foot wooden boat, were surrounded by Coast Guard
vessels a few hundred yards off Surfside, just north of Miami Beach. The Cubans
jumped into the water and tried to swim to shore. Live TV broadcasts showed
Coast Guard crews spraying the tiny boat with a fire hose and firing pepper
spray at one of the men. Hundreds of callers telephoned the Coast Guard to
complain and protests broke out. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
released the six to relatives Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Beachgoers cheer for a Cuban man headed to shore after eluding Coast Guard boats
Tuesday in the water near Surfside, Fla.
[990701 FR 5A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 4, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS WIN CLASS-ACTION SUIT OVER STATUS INS TOLD TO CONSIDER PLAINTIFFS'
APPLICATIONS

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


In a case involving perhaps tens of thousands of people, a federal judge Friday
ordered U.S. immigration officials to accept applications for legal status from
immigrants who were abroad during an amnesty period in the 1980s.

The written ruling by U.S. District Judge William Keller came in a class-action
lawsuit filed by the applicants, who were rejected by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service because they had left the country during the May 1987 to
May 1988 amnesty period authorized by Congress.

Lawyers for the immigrants, who filed the class-action lawsuit in 1987, said
Keller's decision could affect tens of thousands of immigrants, although they
expected the INS to appeal the ruling.

"After 10 years of litigation, we are excited that tens of thousands of families
may finally emerge from their underground status," said Peter Schey, an attorney
with the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, which represented the
immigrants.

Schey said some 2 million immigrants applied for amnesty during the one-year
application period, including those who had briefly traveled outside the United
States during that time.

An INS spokesman in Washington, D.C., Russ Bergeron, said his agency would have
to review the ruling before deciding whether to appeal.

Eligible were immigrants who had maintained a continuous residence in the United
States from 1982 to 1987, with brief travel abroad permitted.

When the INS refused to consider applications by those who had left the country
during that period, that group of immigrants sued, and the issue has been in
litigation for more than a decade.

"Defendants shall accept and adjudicate applications for legalization . . . of
plaintiff class members who attempted to file a completed application and
application fee with the INS during the (amnesty) period," Keller wrote in his
ruling.

"Plaintiff class members whose standing claims are denied by the INS and whose
applications for legalization the agency will not voluntarily adjudicate shall
be advised in writing of the individualized reasons why they lackstanding," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 7, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS WAIVER ALLOWS REUNION LAW HAD BARRED WIFE FROM U.S. 10 YEARS FOR OVERSTAYING
VISA

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 782 words


Lili Martinez, a Peruvian national who had been banned from the United States
for 10 years for overstaying a tourist visa, has been granted a humanitarian
waiver so she can join her husband in Silicon Valley.

Martinez and her husband, Ralph, got final word Tuesday that the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service waiver had been approved, just as their
daughter, Kassandra, was celebrating her first birthday.

"I cannot express how happy I am," said Ralph Martinez, operations director of
the Silicon Valley Capital Club and Capital Club Athletics. He was in Peru,
where he had flown on Sunday so that the family could enjoy the birthday
celebration together.

"I can't wait to get back home and be a family again," Lili Martinezsaid.

The nightmare for the Martinezes began in December, after Lili's mother called
from Lima to say that her father had apparently suffered a heart attack.

The couple, who were married in May 1998, rushed down to the San Jose INS office
to apply for Lili Martinez's green card. She asked for written permission to
leave the country for the medical emergency and was told the process usually
takes about two weeks.

But on Dec. 4, Lili Martinez decided her father might not last, and flew to see
him.

Her dad recovered. But Lili and her husband soon learned that she was barred
from the United States for a decade because of a sweeping 1996 immigration law
aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration. Because she was pregnant, Lili
said, she had overstayed a tourist visa that required her to leave the country
in November 1997.

Had Lily remained in the United States, she could have legally awaited her INS
interview and green card -- which she would have received because she had
married an American citizen. But leaving the country subjected her to the
provisions of the Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, which
states that people found to be living in the country illegally for more than 180
days are barred from re-entering the country for three years.

Those here illegally for a year or more are barred for 10 years.

Politicians and activists battling illegal immigration say the strict penalties
are necessary deterrents to people who overstay tourist and student visas.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, a San Jose Democrat who had opposed the law after predicting
that the get-tough measures would separate too many families, praised the INS's
decision Tuesday as "a good, good thing that will allow the Martinez family and
their baby to be together in San Jose."

About the law

The 1996 law allows the INS to grant waivers to the three- and 10-year bars. But
the agency's discretion is limited. The person banned from the country must
prove "extreme hardship" to a spouse or a parent living in the United States
legally. By themselves, family separation and "financial inconvenience" are not
considered grounds for a waiver.

Lofgren said the INS acted quickly after her office faxed down a letter that had
been written by Ralph Martinez's doctor, Arthur Douville Jr. in Los Gatos. In
the letter, he explained Ralph Martinez had a progressive neurological disease
that causes difficulty with walking and other daily activities.

Douville had asked for a "compassionate waiver of immigration rules" to allow
Lili to help with his care.

INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said Tuesday he was not allowed to discuss the
Martinez case because of regulations designed to protect privacy.

Ralph Martinez said his wife had gotten a call from the U.S. Embassy on Friday
indicating that her paperwork had been approved. But he said he remained
skeptical "until I saw it in writing."

Martinez said INS officials at the embassy didn't even require them to undergo
an interview, as they had been led to believe. "They were really expeditious in
letting her go," he said.

Workers at the upscale athletic clubs where Martinez works, as well as judges
and lawyers who exercise there, had rallied behind Martinez, offering to write
letters and start petitions.

"I'm just so thrilled for Ralph that he doesn't have to deal with the
bureaucracy anymore," said Angie Work, membership director at the Silicon Valley
Capital Club. "It's a shame that our government has so many policies set up to
keep our families separated."

Martinez, meanwhile, said he'll buy airplane tickets for his wife and daughter
as soon as possible.

"The only thing that bothers me is that there truly are other people out there
with the same problem and they are afraid to speak out," he said. "I really will
not stop when my family is back to see that all people get treated fairly. If I
was not sick, would Lili have been able to come back?"

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS FILE PHOTO
Lili Martinez found out she could return to the United States just as the family
was celebrating Kassandra's first birthday.
[990707 LO 1B AL]
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS FILE PHOTO
Ralph Martinez and his mother, Virginia Martinez, look over photos of Lili and
Kassandra.
[990707 LO 4B]
PHOTO: Lili Martinez
The Peruvian national had overstayed a tourist visa.
[990707 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 26, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL RE-ENTRY CASES GROWING IMMIGRATION-RELATED PROSECUTIONS NETTING PRISON
SENTENCES

BYLINE: HOWARD MINTZ, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1369 words


In a quiet, near-empty San Jose federal courtroom last week, 22-year-old Rafael
Hernandez-Ruvalcaba became another statistic.

Appearing on federal charges of illegally re-entering the United States after
being deported, Hernandez-Ruvalcaba joined a growing legion of defendants
landing on a weekly basis in courts from Oregon to Florida for
immigration-related crimes.

In fact, the prosecution of immigration cases is the fastest-growing segment of
federal law enforcement, according to U.S. Justice Department data released
today by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University.
Last year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service surpassed even the Drug
Enforcement Administration in the number of cases referred to prosecutors that
resulted in convictions in the nation's federal courts.

The trend -- a byproduct of a law-enforcement crackdown and political firestorm
over illegal immigration earlier this decade -- certainly has taken hold in
California. Thousands of undocumented immigrants, many of them with past
criminal records, are prosecuted under the re-entry laws each year in San Diego
alone. Immigration cases in the Sacramento-based federal district that covers
the Central Valley have doubled since 1992, records show.

Even in Northern California, where federal investigations and prosecutions have
lagged generally the past 10 years, immigration cases have jumped considerably
and now account for about 20 percent of federal cases in the region.

Last year, federal prosecutors in the Bay Area filed 166 immigration-related
cases, up from just 20 seven years ago. They filed a record 258 such cases in
1997.

Prison terms also are getting longer and more frequent for immigration offenses.
Defendants now convicted of illegally returning to the United States typically
spend at least two years in a federal prison before they are deported; as
recently as five years ago, immigration crimes led to little or no time behind
bars.

"The whole idea is to keep crime down," said Sharon Rummery, public-affairs
officer for the San Francisco-based INS district. "Are we more effective than we
used to be? I'll say."

The stepped-up use of criminal sanctions has its critics, from civil rights
organizations that believe they hit the Latino population disproportionately
hard, to public defenders who say the approach is overly punitive and sometimes
used in the wrong circumstances.

Reaching the goal?

And with thousands of defendants now being sent to federal prison each year,
critics also wonder whether the immigration program is accomplishing its goal --
to deter undocumented immigrants with criminal records from coming back into the
United States.

"It's patently absurd," said Mark Silverman, head of the San Francisco-based
Immigrant Legal Resource Center. "It doesn't have any deterrent effect. These
people are desperate, and they come back. It's a very misguided policy."

Added San Jose federal public defender David Grunbaum, who works with many of
the local immigration cases: "We sure are spending a lot of money on this.This
thing is all politically motivated. Five years ago, they couldn't care less
about these cases."

The boom in immigration-related law enforcement activity can be traced back to
1995 and 1996, when the Clinton administration, Congress and politicians across
the country, notably former California Gov. Pete Wilson, targeted illegal
immigration as a hot-button political issue. While California voters were
passing Proposition 187, which slashed public benefits to undocumented
immigrants, the INS was beefing up its staff and working under expanded federal
immigration laws.

But the biggest tool for law enforcement has been a federal law that has been on
the books for years. Known around courthouses simply as "1326," the law makes it
a crime just to return to the United States after having been deported.
Prosecutors are now using it to target defendants who repeatedly have crossed
the border and who have a prior felony conviction.

In 1994, federal prosecutors in the Northern California district -- which
stretches from Monterey to the Oregon border -- charged just 11 people under the
1326 law. By 1996, the number had jumped to 183.

Local jails checked

Across California, INS agents tend to uncover the cases in local jails, such as
Santa Clara County's, where undocumented immigrants are considered one reason
the system remains overcrowded. The San Jose branch of the U.S. Attorney's
Office is filing a large share of the region's immigration cases: South Bay
federal prosecutors accounted for 66 of the 166 cases in the district last year,
according to Justice Department data.

Many of these are like the case of Hernandez-Ruvalcaba, who appeared before San
Jose U.S. Magistrate Judge Edward Infante last week. Hernandez-Ruvalcaba, a
Mexican national, has been in and out of Santa Cruz County jails on state drug
charges and was deported three times from 1996 to 1998, according to court
papers. He now faces the possibility of several years in federal prison if
convicted on the new illegal re-entry charge.

The federal charges usually are filed in a simple two- or three-page document,
such as one filed last week against Nicolas Ayala-Cerda, the most recent
immigration prosecution in San Jose. Ayala-Cerda, according to court papers, has
been deported seven times since 1983.

"The point of the program is to keep dangerous criminals out of the country and
incarcerate them when appropriate," said Matt Jacobs, spokesman for the Bay Area
U.S. Attorney's Office.

Some defendants who already have spent time in prison and been deported under
the re-entry laws are starting to show up in the justice system a second time,
according to lawyers and law enforcement officials. One example is Alberto
Curiel-Torres, deported nine times since 1978 and already convicted once of an
illegal re-entry charge.

A federal judge in San Jose this month sentenced Curiel-Torres to five years in
prison for his second offense.

"It would be surprising if it has not had some deterrent effect," said Alex
Aleinikoff, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center and a top INS
official from 1994 to 1997. "If someone is arguing this can't be effective
because people are coming back, I don't see how -- they'd come back sooner if
they weren't put in prison."

In most cases, defendants charged with the immigration crimes are placed in
so-called "fast-track" programs that call for them to plead guilty in exchange
for 24- to 30-month prison terms. If a defendant has any convictions for violent
crimes, the sentence can go up considerably -- two people were sentenced in
Fresno recently to 20-year terms.

Federal Public Defender Barry Portman, who supervises the Bay Area's defenders,
said the main problem with the government's approach arises when undocumented
immigrants have established roots in the United States, whether because they
lived here most of their lives or started families before running into trouble
with the law.

These defendants, Portman said, typically wind up charged with illegal re-entry
with a drug charge in their past. A vast majority of them are Latinos.

'It's bad policy'

"It's all part of the sentiment in this country, an anti-immigrant philosophy,"
said Houston attorney Rick Dovalina, president of the League of United Latin
American Citizens. "It's part of an everlasting mentality that we've got to
fight. And it's bad policy."

Like California, other border states are experiencing an explosion in cases
generated by the INS. Arizona prosecuted almost 2,800 immigration cases last
year, the most in the country, up from 246 in 1992. Texas also is a flash point
for immigration charges.

The crackdown on illegal immigration has not been confined to the criminal
justice system. According to TRAC, the Syracuse outfit, there was a fourfold
increase in the number of undocumented immigrants deported by the INS between
1993 and 1998. There were no specific figures available for California.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
IMMIGRATION PROSECUTIONS
[Chart not in database]
Source: Tranactional Records Access Clearinghouse

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Diagram, Chart;
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS FILE PHOTOGRAPH
U.S. Border Patrol agent Tom Madden fingerprints a suspected illegal immigrant
in Dublin earlier this year. Civil rights advocates say too many such immigrants
are being sent to prison.
[990726 FR 11A]
DIAGRAM: MERCURY NEWS
IMMIGRATION PROSECUTIONS IN 1998
Source: Tranactional Records Access Clearinghouse

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 16, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION IS CRUCIAL TO VALLEY'S BRAINPOWER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 696 words


HIGH-tech industry runs on highly trained brainpower, but it's in short supply.
To meet the demand for skilled computer scientists and engineers, the United
States must draw on the world's talent pool.

Skilled foreigners can come here to work for six years under the H-1B visa
program. But it's too limited. This year, the cap of 65,000 was reached five
months early. To admit more workers, we support HR 3736, which would raise the
limit in stages to 115,000 by 2001, then drop it back to 65,000 in 2003. The
bill is scheduled to go to the House floor this week.

H-1B visas were set up in 1990 to fill a shortage of nurses; this year 42
percent went to high-tech workers.

The basic argument is simple: We need these guys. "Our failure to meet the
growing demand for information technology professionals could have serious
consequences for America's competitiveness, economic growth and job creation,"
warns the federal Office of Technology Policy in "America's New Deficit: The
Shortage of Information Technology Workers."

On this page, UC-Davis professor Norm Matloff argues that employers hire H-1B
workers because they work long hours for less money, not because they can't find
or train qualified Americans. T.J. Rodgers, CEO of Cypress Semiconductor, argues
that foreign engineers create good jobs for Americans by enabling companies to
grow.

Rodgers has the better case, but there have been some problems with the H-1B
program, which the bill goes a long way toward fixing.

By current law, employers must pay the prevailing wage or the same wage as
comparable workers in the company, whichever is higher. Some charge that
companies routinely pay less, and get away with it because most H-1B workers
want to stay here and rely on employer sponsorship to qualify for permanent
residency. While H-1B workers can switch jobs, the new employer must wait months
for a new visa to be approved.

HR 3736 strengthens enforcement, setting penalties of $25,000 for each
deliberate violation plus a two-year exclusion from all visa programs. Job shops
that specialize in providing foreign workers are considered the most likely to
cheat on wages; one violation would put a job shop out of business.

The bill adds new protections against layoffs of American workers for 90days
before and after an H-1B visa is granted; job shops are responsible for the
conduct of companies in which workers are placed.

The bill also orders an age discrimination study. Veteran programmers and
engineers complain that employers think they're less productive, less flexible
and more expensive than workers a few years out of college. This is a serious
issue, though not really a visa question, and should be examined.

An extra 50,000 visas by 2001 -- not all of which go to high-tech workers --
will meet only a fraction of the need for computer professionals.

Unemployment rates are exceptionally low: 0.9 percent for electrical engineers,
1.1 percent for computer scientists and systems analysts in 1997, according to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Job growth is very high. High-tech industry added 615,000 jobs from 1994 to
1997, according to the American Electronics Association. BLS says jobs for
computer professionals more than doubled from 1988 to 1996, and will more than
double again from 1996 to 2006, creating 130,000 new jobs per year.

Computer science enrollments are on the upswing after years of decline, but it
will take a long time, and a dramatic improvement in K-12 math and science
education, to grow at home all the technology specialists an Information Age
economy needs.

"There's so much demand relative to the number of immigrants we're talking
about," says Avron Barr of the Stanford Computer Industry Project. And the
shortage is global, he says. "There aren't surplus programmers anywhere in the
world." The Indians who aren't working here are working there -- for U.S. and
European companies.

The winner in the global economy will be the country that can employ the most
brainpower. If Congress wants to protect our prosperity and our jobs, it will
let high-tech industry hire the world's best computer scientists and engineers.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
RELATED STORIES: page 6B

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: JIM HUMMEL - MERCURY NEWS

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 10, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL STALLS LABOR ALLY IN SENATE STYMIES MEASURE TO RAISE CAP ON
TECH VISAS

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Legislation to allow more foreign high-tech workers to come to the United States
hit an unexpected roadblock in the U.S. Senate Friday night and could be dead
until next year.

Iowa Democrat Tom Harkin, saying he doesn't think there is a shortage of highly
skilled U.S. workers, used a procedural move to block the Senate from taking up
the bill as Congress rushes toward adjournment early next week.

"Right now, it does not appear that the demand is there that they have
anticipated," Harkin said of so-called H-1B visas, which are used to bring in a
limited number of skilled foreigners each year.

Harkin's move frustrated tech-industry representatives who have been
anticipating a banner year in Washington. Their other top priority, a bill which
makes it tougher to file and win shareholders' lawsuits in state courts, is
poised to pass Congress as early as today.

"It's critical the Senate take action in this session" on the visa issue, said
Reed Hastings, chief executive officer of TechNet, a Silicon Valley-based group
that lobbies for high-tech issues. "There may be some people who want to take
our growth for granted, but we don't. This is one of the key pieces to keeping
economic growth going in America."

While endangering the legislation's hopes of passage, Harkin's move does not
kill it -- yet. He could change his mind before Congress adjourns, or the Senate
could circumvent Harkin's parliamentary move and bring the legislation to a
vote. But that would entail a time-consuming process that might not be ahigh
priority in the waning hours of the 1997 congressional session.

Harkin is likely to face pressure from the Clinton administration, which
supports the expanded visa program. And there is strong support for it in the
Senate, where an earlier version of the legislation easily passed 78-20 this
spring.

The bill appeared to have overcome its final hurdle when congressional and White
House negotiators struck a deal two weeks ago. The House easily approved a
compromise Sept. 24 to increase the annual number of visas from 65,000 to
115,000 in 1999 before reverting to the current level in 2002.

But organized labor opposed the visa program's expansion, and this week an
association of engineers sent all members of Congress letters disputing that a
high-tech worker shortage exists.

The group cited thousands of layoffs in the high-tech industry this year and
third-quarter data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showing that the
unemployment rate for electrical engineers increased eightfold since the
beginning of 1998, to 3.4 percent, the highest rate since 1994.

"The idea of increasing the H-1B cap at this time makes even less sense now than
it did in the beginning of the year," said Paul Kostek, president-elect of the
organization, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA.

Harkin is a strong ally of organized labor.

The tech industry fared far better on the shareholder lawsuit issue this week,
as Senate and House negotiators signed off on legislation that makes it tougher
to file and win class-action shareholder lawsuits in state court.

The bill would close what was widely seen as a loophole in a 1995 federal
securities litigation reform. That law toughened the rules on shareholders'
suits in federal court -- but had the effect of driving many suits to state
courts, where the standards were looser.

This year's measure makes it impossible to file a national class-action suit in
a state court.

Securities fraud suits tend to plague high-tech companies, because they are
typically triggered by wild swings in stock prices common in the tech industry.
The suits often charge that company executives manipulated the stock price
through carefully timed announcements. High-tech companies claim most such suits
are frivolous.

"It is wrong for strike suit lawyers to prey on publicly traded companies and
hundreds of millions of American shareholders with frivolous lawsuits, and this
balanced securities litigation reform bill closes this legal loophole," said
Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-New York, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Sen. Tom Harkin disputes the need for more H-1B visas
[981009 BU 3C]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   August 15, 1998 Saturday PENINSULA EDITION

P.A. FUGITIVE ARRESTED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia


A fugitive suspected gang leader wanted in Palo Alto was in custody Friday after
being picked up in a joint police and Immigration operation.

Riyaz Ali, 25, was arrested Wednesday in the Vancouver suburb of Surrey.

Rob Johnston of Immigration Canada said officials discovered Ali was in Canada
around the middle of July.

Ali -- who has no fixed address -- is the leader of the California-based South
Pacific Islanders Gang, according to Canadian authorities who said he is wanted
in Palo Alto for assault.

Authorities said Ali's criminal history includes assaults with weapons,
kidnapping and attempted murder. If he is returned to the United States and
convicted, he could face an automatic 25-year imprisonment under the state's
"three strikes, you're out" law.

It is expected Ali will have an immigration hearing Monday.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ALSO RAN: page 5B, Morning Final edition.

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 16, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINOS ON THE MOVE TO A NEW PROMISED LAND ATTRACTED BY HIGHER-PAYING THOUGH
DIFFICULT JOBS AND THE OPPORTUNITY FOR A BETTER LIFE THAN THEY CAN PUT TOGETHER
IN CALIFORNIA, LATINO MIGRANTS ARE CHOOSING MIDDLE AMERICA OVER THE GOLDEN STATE

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA AND BEN STOCKING, MERCURY NEWS STAFF WRITERS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3348 words

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Neb.


Venturing into unfamiliar territory, Latino immigrants are blazing new trails
across the United States and changing the face of rural America. Mexican workers
who once fled their impoverished villages to seek a better life in California
have discovered a new promised land: the Midwest and Southeast, where tough but
better-paying jobs are plentiful.

Joining them are droves of Mexican-Americans and Central Americans riding a
second-wave migration out of California. For these West Coast refugees, fed up
with the state's high cost of living, urban crime and anti-immigration climate
-- the Golden State has lost its glow.

returning to the Golden State.

"California used to be a big deal, but now it's a turnoff," said Francisco
Solorio, 22, a native of the Mexican state of Michoacan, who traded the tomato
fields of Merced County for the meatpacking plants of Iowa.

To the heartland
Mexican immigrants
shunning California For decades, California was the most common destination for
Mexican immigrants leaving the largely rural states of Michoacan, Jalisco,
Zacatecas and Guanajuato. These days, many northbound workers are heading
straight to the heartland.

"All of our dreams are in Nebraska," said 19-year-old Jose Mosqueda, who left
Villachuato, Michoacan, to earn money in Nebraska so that one day, he could
build his own home in Mexico.

Workers like Solorio and Mosqueda are eager to take jobs that many Americans
don't want -- jobs that can be both unpleasant and dangerous.

Latinos have become indispensable to meatpacking and poultry operations,
industry executives say, because low unemployment rates have made local workers
hard to find.

"Without Latino workers, we would have to close some plants because we couldn't
staff them," said Ed Nicholson, of Tyson Foods, a poultry company based in
Springdale, Ark.

While Latinos arrive daily in towns across the United States, demographers are
still waiting for reliable numbers to measure the scope of this population
trend. Solid data won't be available, they say, until after the 2000 census.

But the U.S. Census Bureau's early estimates illustrate that the Latino
population is booming in unlikely places. From 1990 to 1996, it grew by 104
percent in Arkansas, 73 percent in North Carolina, 70 percent in Georgia and 70
percent in Nebraska.

During that same period, the bureau estimates, 448,000 more Latinos left
California for other states than moved here from elsewhere in the nation.

And all of these estimates may be low. They probably missed many recent
immigrants and undocumented workers, said Larry Sink, a Census Bureau
statistician. He routinely fields calls from officials in counties with
fast-growing Latino populations -- especially those with poultry and meatpacking
plants -- who complain that the bureau's numbers are way off.

"The story goes, in almost every case, that there has been a remarkable increase
in the number of Hispanics in the last couple of years, and it's not showing up
in our estimates," Sink said.

In scarcely more than eight years, the Latino population in Siler City, N.C.,
has exploded from virtually nothing to 3,200 -- nearly 40 percent of the total
population. The newcomers themselves estimate that at least 20 percent of these
Latinos came from the Golden State.

Thousands of California Latinos have streamed into Green Bay, Wis., in recent
years. The Latino population swelled from 1,000 to 7,000 from 1990 to 1996.

"These are migrants coming from urban areas -- places like Fresno, places like
Los Angeles -- straight to Green Bay," said Marcelo Cruz, a professor of
cultural geography at the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay. "People who have
been in California for 15 to 20 years are moving here. Then the people they know
in Mexico are following."

Latinos have become the largest minority group in Nebraska -- at least eight
years earlier than had been projected.

"The numbers that are coming from California are unprecedented," said Lourdes
Gouveia, a sociologist at the University of Nebraska-Omaha who studies
demographic change in Lexington, a central Nebraska town of 10,000.

Lexington's Latino population has soared from less than 5 percent to about45
percent in the past eight years. About 40 percent of the Latino newcomers came
from California.

The growth is not only occurring in small towns and cities. Places such as
Minneapolis, Washington and Indianapolis have also seen their Latino populations
surge.

Fueled by ongoing immigration and an above-average birthrate, Latinos, in sheer
numbers, have become the fastest-growing ethnic group in the United States. By
2010, they are projected to overtake African-Americans to become the nation's
largest minority group.

Demographers say that while the Latino population will continue to grow in
California, the influx won't be as dramatic as in the Midwest and Southeast. And
despite the surge in the Latino population in small cities and towns, the
largest concentrations will remain clustered as they are now -- in gateway
cities such as Los Angeles, New York, Houston and Miami.

But for small-town America, the impact will be extraordinary.

"It will mean incredible social changes for the communities that are getting
them," said William Frey, a demographer at the University of Michigan.

Changing 'Mexington'
Small Nebraska town
gets an urban feel Since the influx began, the sleepy town of Lexington, Neb. --
affectionately known by some Latinos as "Mexington" -- has taken on a more urban
flavor. Youths who recently moved from Los Angeles now cruise the red-brick
downtown roads in lowriders -- passing a Spanish-language Evangelical church and
Dotty's Diner, a traditional town hangout whose clientele continues to be all
white.

The magnet drawing the newcomers is IBP, the largest processor of beef and pork
in the nation.

Workers in IBP's Lexington plant labor in a huge refrigerated factory where
thousands of cows are slaughtered daily, then sent down a series of disassembly
lines. Standing on slippery floors, wearing earplugs and hair nets, they quickly
knife the bones from the carcass, the beef from the fat. Sometimes they labor
beneath the gaze of supervisors gripping stopwatches.

Mauricio Sanchez usually meets his deadline: to slice, tear and yank 10 pounds
of beef from blocks of ribs that move down a conveyor belt every 30 seconds.

The job is monotonous, cold and hard on the hands. Just one thing makes it
bearable: his $9.75 hourly wage.

"If California paid what they pay us in Nebraska, we would be in California,"
said Sanchez, 22, who has worked at IBP for four years.

Sanchez, who wears a beige cowboy hat, a gold pendant of Jesus Christ and a
large, shiny belt buckle, grew up in the Michoacan village of Villachuato,
tending livestock; he thought he would follow his father and older brothers to
the Merced fields, where they used to make their living harvesting tomatoes year
after year.

Those plans quickly changed when he learned he could make twice as much in the
Midwest.

"Everybody who discovers Nebraska and Iowa," Sanchez said, "will never return to
California."

Newcomers arrive in Lexington daily.

Francisco Arias, 26, and Mario Aguilera, 36, who recently left Fresno in a white
1989 Chevy Corsica, pulled into a Lexington homeless shelter on a crisp
afternoon.

Arias and Aguilera, former farmworkers, said jobs were scarce in the San Joaquin
Valley, where fields were flooded by El Nino rains. "People are getting
desperate," said Arias, whose Fresno friends lately have landed jobs in
Tennessee, Indiana and Alaska.

Arias, who arrived in Lexington with $30 in his pocket, needed to find work to
help his sick parents in Mexico buy medicine. "I haven't sent them a peso in
four months," he said.

Aguilera is eager to send money to his wife and eight children in Mexico.

Both share the same initial goal with nearly every Latino newcomer in Lexington:
a job at IBP, which constantly hires new workers because of high turnover.

Many move on to less grueling jobs in construction and the service industry.

Risky proposition
Dangerous, repetitive
food-processing jobs Jobs in the food-processing industry are among the most
dangerous in the country. Workers often perform the same tasks for hours on end,
handling hundreds of chickens, hogs or cows a day. The risk of repetitive strain
and other injuries is high. So is turnover.

"They're working in places like the kill room, where your job is to reach into
the chicken and pull out the guts, then reach into the next chicken and pull out
the guts," said Betsy Barton, assistant director of the North Carolina
Occupational Safety and Health Project, a workers' advocacy group. "And there
are tens of thousands of chickens going by."

At the Packerland meatpacking plant in Green Bay, workers slice hundreds of cow
carcasses during each eight-hour shift.

The four scars on Isaias Alvarez's right hand are vivid reminders of the dangers
of the work. In a telephone interview, he described how his hand has been
slashed three times with a boning knife and pierced once with a meat hook.

But Alvarez, who used to do farm work in Salinas, considers himself lucky. He
still has two hands and 10 fingers.

Alvarez described how some co-workers in the deboning department lost their
fingers beneath knife blades or inside meat-processing machines. They were
rushed off to the hospital along with their stray digits, which had been sealed
inside plastic bags.

Another colleague, he said, lost an eye when it was pierced by an errant knife.
Workers in the deboning department are now required to wear goggles, he said.

"It's not an office job," said Alvarez, who copes with the monotony by singing
ranchera tunes with his co-workers. "But you get used to the rhythm, the routine
of the work."

When he first started, Alvarez didn't think he could endure life at the plant.
He had nightmares each night -- slabs of red meat kept coming at him in a
relentless procession.

His hands ached constantly. And they became bigger -- so much so that he can no
longer fit his wedding ring on his finger.

But he has grown accustomed to the work, and he loves Green Bay. He and his
wife, Irma, have bought a nice three-bedroom house. And they've saved enough to
make a down payment on a second home, which they plan to rent.

"Coming here has been an adventure," he said. "I came with a sense of hope and
excitement. And it's turned out even better than I expected."

Alvarez is happy even though the wind chill index twice plunged to 65 below zero
during his first Wisconsin winter. Even though he has to plug his car into a
heater at night to keep the engine warm. And even though his car once spun out
on an icy highway.

Adapting to a new climate isn't the only difficult adjustment for the newcomers.
Nearly all of them suffer serious culture shock when they arrive in their new
towns. While some adjust quickly, others spend a lot of time pining for
California.

"I'm homesick," said Alfredo Furman, who moved to Zebulon, N.C., from Los
Angeles a few years ago.

Zebulon, a rural community about 20 minutes outside Raleigh, now has a handful
of Latino-owned stores. But Furman longs for his old Los Angeles barrio, where
the Latin influence was so strong he felt like he was back home in Mexico.

"You don't find too many good Spanish restaurants or good Spanish produce in the
stores here," said Furman, a disc jockey at La Super Mexicana, one of two new
Spanish-language stations in the Raleigh-Durham area. "And you don't find too
many Spanish nightclubs where you can go have fun."

Back in California, he lived just a few miles from Hollywood. Now he's just a
stone's throw from a place called Lizard Lick. Where once he saw skyscrapers and
bright lights, he now sees pine forests and tobacco fields.

"I'm making money here," Furman said, "but I'm not really, really happy."

Loneliness isn't the only hardship. Hoping to save money to send to their
families in Latin America, many wind up in low-rent districts that seem as
dangerous as pockets of inner-city Los Angeles.

And with so many newcomers converging on little towns at once, thoselooking for
a place to rent face fierce competition in many places. Up to a dozen people
sometimes end up crammed together in dilapidated trailers with faulty
electricity, no heat, leaky plumbing and a surfeit of rodents. They sleep in
shifts.

"The market is wide open for unscrupulous landlords," said Bill McFadden, a
staffer at St. Julia's Catholic Church, which has organized an effort to improve
housing for Latinos in Siler City. "We get complaints about cockroaches biting
babies. One guy had rats as big as cats."

In Durham, N.C., Latinos were targeted in a series of brutal crimes last year.
According to police, thieves figured out that many newcomers were carrying large
sums of cash because they mistrusted banks or lacked the Social Security numbers
required for opening an account.

"We've had three robbery attempts," said Maria, an illegal immigrant who
declined to give her full name. She lives in a rundown duplex in a rough Durham
neighborhood. "Here, they kill people in the streets to get their money."

Leaving California
Forces converged
to divert Latinos Latinos started seeking new destinations in the early 1990s,
when several forces converged.

First, California's economy became mired in recession, forcing many to seek work
outside the state. Meanwhile, changes in the poultry and meat-processing
industries had created a huge demand for new workers in the Midwest and
Southeast. Many companies started recruiting in California, South Texas and
other places that had high unemployment rates.

Those developments occurred just as many Latino farmworkers had become eligible
for year-round work under a provision in the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control
Act, which allowed more than 3 million to become permanent legal residents.

By the time California's economy recovered in the mid-1990s, many Latinos had
already settled out of state and invited their friends and relatives to join
them.

A worsening economic crisis in Mexico gave Latinos an even greater incentive to
cross the border and seek opportunities in the United States.

And with a rise in the anti-immigrant sentiment in the 1990s, the California
departures accelerated.

"That exodus to other places happened, for the most part, after Proposition
187," said Marco Antonio Tovar, an official with the Mexican Consulate in
Denver, which serves Nebraska and four other states.

The initiative, which would have denied public education and most other health
and social service benefits to illegal immigrants, has since been struck down by
a federal court judge as unconstitutional.

Shortly after voters approved the measure in 1994, a small but noticeable surge
of Latinos began arriving in North Carolina and other states.

"There was kind of a scare back then," said Bill Lail, director of the Family
Resource Center, a public health center that serves many Latinos in Siler City.

Signs of change
Latino-oriented shops
join general store Since the influx began there, signs of change have cropped up
everywhere. Shiny new Massey-Ferguson tractors still stand outside the Clapp
Brothers farm equipment dealership and old-timers still swap gossip at the
Farmer's Alliance general store. But these establishments are joined by Tienda
Gabriel, La Popular and Tienda Guerrero -- bodegas where Latino families stock
up on tortillas, religious candles and cowboy boots.

Testerman's insurance agency has posted an aseguranzas sign in its window,
advertising its services to Latino customers. The Hair World beauty parlor has
hired a new stylist who specializes in Latin styles. And a half-dozen churches
now offer Spanish services.

One of the first to do so was St. Julia's Catholic Church, where Latino
parishioners come from San Jose, Los Gatos, Salinas and many other California
cities.

Alejandro Uresti, a member of St. Julia's who used to live in Monterey County,
suggests a new name for the town: "Nueva California."

Latinos have also been coming from Florida and Texas. But these days, the
greatest numbers are California transplants.

When they first started arriving, Latinos took jobs at local poultry plants.
Today they work in virtually every industry in town, from construction to timber
to textiles.

Marta Zaragoza, who lived in Southern California for 14 years, found work at the
Charles Craft textile mill. Just five years ago, the workforce at Charles Craft
was made up entirely of blacks and whites. Now 60 percent of the workers are
Latinos.

The work at Charles Craft is monotonous -- changing and sorting hundreds of
spools of industrial thread. The spinning machines roar at a deafening pitch,
and cotton dust fills the air.

Still, Zaragoza has thrived at Charles Craft. She has worked her way up to a
supervisor's job and oversees a crew of 30 -- all but one of them Latino. As she
moves around the plant in her blue uniform, a look of pride on her face,
Zaragoza points out a half-dozen other workers who came from California.

"They've given me a lot of opportunity here," said Zaragoza, who earns $30,000 a
year. "I've worked very hard to get where I am."

She lives directly across the street from the sprawling red brick plant in an
old mill village of small single-story bungalows. Hers is one of the last ones
still owned by the company, and she rents it for just $250 a month. Not long
ago, the neighborhood was virtually all white; now Latinos live in almost every
house.

Zaragoza's 23-year-old daughter, Veronica, wasn't sure she wanted to start her
life over in Siler City.

"I was actually very scared about coming here," Veronica Zaragoza said. "North
Carolina had never had any immigration, and now that they were starting to have
some, they didn't want it."

She's found it difficult to adjust to life in a community that had consisted of
just blacks and whites since the days of slavery.

"In California, I didn't view a person as black, white or Asian," said Veronica,
an instructor at a bilingual Head Start program in Siler City. "I didn't define
them by race. They were just people. Here, it's different."

Chasing the dream
'We've found a great
way of life out here' Many of the Latinos coming to North Carolina and other new
destinations are lured by the dramatically lower cost of living. Those who had
trouble scraping together the rent each month in California are buying houses in
their newly adopted states.

"We've found a great way of life out here," said Jacinto Corona, a former
Watsonville-area delivery driver who moved his family to Grand Island, Neb.,
where he runs the state's first Spanish-language radio station and has a $625
monthly mortgage payment for a four-bedroom house.

More than 20 percent of the 4,000 Latinos in Rogers, Ark., have bought homes,
according to Mayor John Sampier. And 60 percent of new home buyers in Lexington
are Latinos, officials there said.

While economic forces are drawing Latinos from the Golden State, big-city crime
is also driving them away. For some, Lexington, Siler City and other rural towns
are safe havens far from the violence that marred many of their urban
neighborhoods.

Joel Esparza, a minister who lived in the Bay Area for eight years, headed for
the poultry town of Rogers, after stray bullets struck his East Palo Alto house
-- for the third time.

"It was impossible to live in peace," Esparza said.

Since moving to Grand Island from the Bay Area three years ago, Benita Alvarado
has come to enjoy the slower pace of rural life, which leaves her more time to
spend with her family.

"I used to work so much that I missed being home with my children," said
Alvarado, a certified nurse assistant who lived in Daly City for 16 years.

There's no comparing California's glorious mountains and coast to the flat, dull
plains of the Midwest. But when it comes to raising teenagers, she said,
Nebraska's the place.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: DID YOU KNOW?
w From 1990 to 1996, the Latino population grew by 104 percent in Arkansas --
the largest percentage increase of any state.
w By 2010, Latinos are projected to become the largest minority group in the
United States.
w In Lexington, Neb., 60 percent of new home buyers are Latinos.
w Ten years ago, 5 percent of Lexington's students were Latino; today they make
up 46 percent of the students.
w From 1990 to 1996, 448,000 more Latinos left California for other states than
moved here from elsewhere in the nation, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
w In 1997, there were an estimated 29.7 million Latinos in the United States --
about 11 percent of the total population.
SILER CITY, N.C.
"Nueva California" would be a good name for Siler City, N.C., one transplant
from Monterey County suggests. The newcomers themselves estimate that at least
20 percent of the 3,200 Latinos in Siler City came from the Golden State. When
they first started arriving, Latinos took jobs at local poultry plants, but now
they work in virtually every industry in town, from construction to timber to
textiles. But change has not come easily in Siler City. Some Latinos say they
have had trouble adjusting to a town that had consisted of just blacks and
whites before the Latino influx began, while some natives complain that Latino
culture is overrunning their own.
LEXINGTON, NEB.
Some Latino residents affectionately refer to their town as "Mexington." While
the town's population was just 5 percent Latino in 1990, it is nearly half
Latino today. Many of the newcomers come from California, which has helped give
the town a more urban flavor. Young people who recently moved from Los Angeles
cruise the red-brick downtown roads in lowriders -- passing a Spanish-language
Evangelical church and Dotty's Diner, a traditional town hangout whose clientele
continues to be all white. The nation's largest meat-processing company, IBP, is
the big draw for the immigrants. Work there is monotonous, cold and hard on the
hands. Just one thing makes it bearable: Wages roughly twice what workers could
get in California. "If California paid what they pay us in Nebraska, we would be
in California," said Mauricio Sanchez, 22, who has worked at IBP for four
years.A Mercury News Special Report
First of two parts
RELATED STORIES: pages 23A and 25A

GRAPHIC: Photos (8), Maps (2), Diagram;
DIAGRAM: KARL KAHLER - MERCURY NEWS
WHERE THE LATINOS ARE .... AND WHERE THEY'RE MOVING
Sources: U.S Census Bureau and demographer William Frey
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
[LEXINGTON, NEB.]
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
[SILER CITY, N.C.]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
ike many of the other Latinos in Lexington, Neb., the family of Claudia Sanchez,
6, moved to the Midwest from California. The Sanchez family had lived in central
California for nearly two decades before Claudia's parents left to work in
meatpacking plants. Here, Claudia plays outside her family's home. Since 1990,
the number of Latinos in Lexington, population 10,000, has gone from a few
hundred to 4,500.
[980816 FR 1A 2]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Adrian Sanchez in front of the family pickup truck in Lexington. The Sanchezes
moved from central California to Nebraska, where jobs in meatpacking plants pay
about twice as much as farm jobs in the Golden State.
[980816 FR 23A 1]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Mario Aguilera, 36, above, recently left Fresno, where he was a farmworker, for
Lexington in hopes of getting a job at IBP, the largest processor of beef and
pork in the nation. Aguilera is eager to send money to his wife and eight
children in Mexico.
[980816 FR 23A 2]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
At left, the Sanchez family has tacos for breakfast and gets reacquainted the
day after many returned to Lexington from Mexico, where they were celebrating
holidays.
[980816 FR 23A 3]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Susana Zaragoza, who moved to Siler City after living for many years in Los
Angeles, takes down laundry.
[980816 FR 24A 1]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Marta Zaragoza, left in above photo, has thrived at the Charles Craft textile
mill in Siler City. She oversees a crew of 30, all but one of them Latino.
[980816 FR 24A 3]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
At left, a man plays with his daughter after Sunday service at St. Julia's
Catholic Church in Siler City.
[980816 FR 24A 2]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
Los Angeles transplant Juan Bermudez rides around Lexington, Neb., in his
lowrider. Bermudez started the town's first car club. Migrants from Los Angeles
cruising the red-brick downtown roads have helped give the town a more urban
flavor. About 40 percent of the Latino newcomers in Lexington came from
California.
[980816 FR 22A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 17, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A SPREADING BACKLASH SOME ANTI-IMMIGRATION GROUPS TURN TO CALIFORNIA FOR
GUIDANCE

BYLINE: BEN STOCKING, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 942 words


Jim Floyd, a self-described "redneck with a library card," knew where to go for
advice about fending off immigrants: California. The diversity state. The state
of his nightmares.

He picked up his phone in Cullman, Ala., and dialed Glenn Spencer, founder of
Voice of Citizens Together, one of the rabidly anti-immigration organizations
scattered throughout the Golden State.

Spencer, whose group is based in Sherman Oaks, is used to getting calls from
angry Californians who think immigration is destroying their state. But these
days, he is getting more and more calls from faraway places: Arkansas, Iowa,
Kansas, Kentucky, Nebraska, North Carolina.

As the Latino population spreads across the nation, so does theanti-immigration
backlash that erupted in California. In many Midwestern and Southeastern towns,
residents are giving their new Latino neighbors a warm welcome. But a core of
longtime residents deeply resents how immigration is changing their communities.

They fear that the newcomers will drive down wages, import big-city crime to
their little towns and impose Spanish on communities where the English language
has enjoyed a monopoly.

Potential allies

Spencer sees the old-timers who have these concerns as potential allies in his
fight to rid the nation of immigrants.

"People are beginning to resist all across the country," Spencer said. "The way
this is going, eventually there is going to be a major clash over this. It's
going to be damn ugly."

Hard-core immigration foes across the nation are banding together and searching
for ways to keep newcomers out. Many are linking up on the Internet, where some
Web pages warn ominously that immigration threatens to destroy the nation. It
was through a series of Internet connections that Floyd hooked up with Spencer.

He figured the Californian could offer good advice.

To Floyd, California seems like a bad dream.

"I think of drugs and urine in the parks," he said. "I think of a very
depressing, almost feudalistic system where people with money live behind gates
and walls and where average people suffer the effects of uncontrolled
immigration."

Floyd called Spencer to invite him to a "Stand Up for Cullman" rally last
January and Spencer accepted. He and several other Californians traveled to
Alabama to show their support. One of them, Stan Hess of Novato, was arrested
with Floyd after they burned a Mexican flag. They were charged with violating a
local ordinance that prohibits burning without a permit.

Hess declined to discuss the incident, explaining via e-mail that he refuses to
talk to representatives of the "dominant media culture." But Floyd said he
wanted to dramatize the dangers of immigration. He also burned the flags of the
United Nations and the former Soviet Union during the protest.

"Intellectual discourse with professors and theologians won't be remembered long
enough to even consider. But people are so invincibly ignorant that they'll
remember an old curmudgeon burning a flag."

At the rally, he delivered a blunt and simple message: "Illegals, we don't want
you here. Get out! Go home! Go back!"

It is hard to measure what proportion of immigrants in Cullman and other new
Latino destinations are undocumented. But immigrants and others familiar with
these communities estimate that 25 to 75 percent are here illegally.

Out-of-town influence

Police Chief Kenny Culpepper said that most of the 60 people who attended the
rally came from out of town. Some of them have links to white supremacist and
militia groups, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center, which monitors
such groups.

Latinos are going to Alabama for the same reason they are going to Rogers, Ark.:
to take jobs in the poultry industry.

John Sampier, the mayor of Rogers, says the newcomers are buying homes, making
an important economic contribution and becoming valued community members.

But a new group has sprung up in town called Americans for an Immigration
Moratorium. AIM's founder, Dan Morris, wants to stop the flood of newcomers.

He invited Spencer to address his group and tell some cautionary tales about how
immigration has transformed California. If immigration isn't stopped, Morris
warns, Rogers will be destroyed.

"They're going to ruin it, just like they ruined Southern California," he said.

Morris and other immigration foes are furious at the poultry and meatpacking
companies that have become magnets for many Latino newcomers.

"They could only attract a Third World worker because those are ThirdWorld
jobs," Morris said.

Some mainstream politicians are also picking up the anti-immigration banner.

Tim Sutton, a county commissioner in Alamance County, N.C., has discovered that
his tough anti-immigration stance is popular with constituents. A few years ago,
he persuaded his fellow commissioners to set up a task force to investigate
illegal immigration.

"My phone was ringing off the hook, so many people were calling to thank me,"
Sutton recalled.

Sutton says he isn't opposed to all immigration; he's just opposed to illegal
immigration and excessive rates of legal immigration.

The rapid pace of immigration is imposing too many costs on his county, which
can't afford to build new schools or hire English as a Second Language teachers
for students who speak only Spanish, Sutton says.

Since he was recently profiled in an anti-immigration newsletter, Sutton has
been hearing from lots of sympathetic Californians.

"I've gotten letters this week from San Francisco, Los Angeles, Bakersfield and
Van Nuys," he said. "They're saying, 'Right on. We wish you were our
commissioner.' "

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Second of two partsMercury News Special ReportA NEW PROMISED LANDThe
Latino migration across America

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: pages 1A and 8A

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 21, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MORE CASH DOWN THE INS RAT-HOLE

BYLINE: SANDY M. FERNANDEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 515 words


THE Immigration and Naturalization Service is needlessly making it more
expensive to come to the United States.

Last week, the agency announced that it would be raising fees almost across the
board. Beginning in October, a green card application, now $130, will go to
$220, and a work visa will jump from $70 to $100. Starting next January, the
cost of filing a citizenship application will catapult 137 percent, from $95 to
$225.

This is news because in January 1997, when the backlog of applications for
citizenship stood at 1.8 million and the wait was commonly more than 22months,
INS Commissioner Doris Meissner promised not to raise fees until the INS could
provide improved service. Service did not get better but the agency says that a
shortfall in income and the need to decrease the backlog have forced it into
raising processing costs.

Don't you believe it.

Last year, the INS operated under a record budget of $3 billion. Still, the
number of applications it processed fell by half. Between Meissner's promise and
now, the citizenship backlog has grown by approximately 100,000 cases.

The inefficiency increased despite throwing money at the problem. Spooked by
1996's Citizenship USA scandal -- in which a number of ineligible immigrants
were inadvertently granted citizenship -- the INS opened fingerprinting support
centers, created a direct-mail application procedure and improved computer
software.

Now the INS wants more money. Not only has the INS announced the fee raise, it
also is requesting an additional $171 million from Congress for next year's
budget.

At the same time, the number of citizenship applications has begun to drop
drastically, after ballooning for six years straight to an all-time high of 1.6
million in fiscal year 1997. Applications are down 46 percent this year and are
expected to plummet 56 percent this coming year. Rather than treat the decline
as an easing of their work load, INS officials are treating it as an
interruption of their income stream: They cite the drop in applications as the
reason they need extra money in order to keep up even the present level of
service.

Most immigrants would be more than willing to pay higher fees for improved
service. And some of the INS's plans -- like more overtime pay and extra hiring
in high-caseload areas like New York and Los Angeles -- seem sensible. But much
of the restructuring is bureaucratic or just plain wrongheaded.

For example, the concept of setting up a "telephone customer service center" to
deal with questions about eligibility, procedures and case status must seem like
a bitter joke to folks like Martina Diederich. A German married to an American,
Diederich called the INS to ask whether it was OK for her to leave the country
while her application for residency through marriage was being processed. Her
husband called, too. Both were told it was fine. The advice was wrong. Upon her
return, she was jailed and deported.

It's too bad the INS doesn't take care of cases like these before asking for
more cash.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Sandy M. Fernandez is an editor of Latina magazine in New York City.

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 25, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JOB CUTS INVITED LATINO MIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 965 words


I enjoyed reading the series entitled "A New Promised Land" (Page 1A, Aug.
16-17) which described the migration of many Latin-American immigrants to
regions of the U.S. other than California -- in particular, to Iowa my home
state.

Unfortunately, you missed the most important part of this story. You failed to
mention that until the 1980s, jobs in the meat-processing industry, which are
currently attracting new immigrants to Iowa and Nebraska, were high-paying,
union jobs that often paid workers $18 an hour and up, plus benefits.

The period from 1980-1988 saw a wave of consolidation and the decline of unions
in the meat-processing industry. During this time, IBP bought up many existing
meat-processing companies in the Midwest and got rid of the unions. Jobs that
previously paid $18 an hour became jobs that paid $6-8 an hour. Many workers who
had been employed in the industry for 15 to 20 years stayed on, but their
spouses went to work in order for their families to meet expenses. More
importantly, young people began to do everything that they could to avoid work
in the "revitalized" meat-processing industry being created by companies like
IBP.

These are the events that lead up to, and in large part are responsible for, the
current migration of immigrants from Latin America. They constitute an important
part of the story. How is it that a few large corporations have been able to
replace high-paying jobs with jobs that pay much less?

-- Seth White
San Jose
PROSECUTE, DON'T ATTACK

OUR act of retribution in Sudan and Afghanistan was an act of terrorism because
many innocents were harmed. Clearly this was not "random" violence, but it
nonetheless had a random result of affecting some who may be guilty andsome
totally innocent.

Our attacks on Afghanistan and Sudan were made simply because these nations are
powerless to prevent them. We would not have made these attacks if Osama bin
Laden had had his training camps in France or Russia.

We have no legal nor historical basis for attacking powerless countries in
retribution for alleged participation terrorism. Regardless of the polls, we
cannot justify our criminal terrorist bombing actions. If we have proof of bin
Laden's culpability, then we should bring him to justice with due process.

-- Allen Huck
Santa Clara
BOUGHT AND SOLD ON H-1BS

PAT Buchanan's "Silicon sellout" and his comments on H-1B visas (Opinion, Aug.
19) were right on target.

For too long now our business leaders have been able to sell (or buy) our
politicians on the short-term need for skilled foreign labor. The educational
system that turns out too few qualified engineers did not become that way
overnight, and the incentive to work hard for an engineering education will not
be there if import quotas continue to be increased rather than phased out.

It's time to address the long-term needs of all our citizens, not just the
short-sighted, short-term needs of a few business leaders. It's not that these
business executives cannot find qualified Americans, it's just that they cannot
get them at the same low wage they can pay the imported labor. This is a trend
that will, over time, only pull down our standard of living.

-- Paul McConnell
San Jose
GET THE FACTS AT UC

THE fall freshman enrollment at UC-Berkeley in 1997 for declared Asians and
whites was 71 s of the total. For fall 1998, this rose to 73 percent. As has
been pointed out to you in several previously published letters, nothing can be
proved about minority enrollment pro or con because of the dramatic increase
(280 percent) in students who "failed to state" their ethnicity, now the third
largest category.

Instead of bemoaning "50 percent minority decreases" or quoting
mathematically-challenged activists, why not finally assign somebody to dig out
the facts?

-- Mel Lapides
Los Altos
RESOURCES ARE AVAILABLE

I hope that Heather Dominguez ("Few resources for disturbed kids and their
parents," Letters, Aug. 18) does not give up too easily on her very reasonable
goal of giving her son a chance to succeed in kindergarten.

Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act allows parents and school officials to
create a better "goodness of fit" of early educational strategies for the child
with a history of behavioral challenges often associated with the Attention
Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder label. This means individualizing services and
providing appropriate supports without waiting "until a problem arises."

As director of early childhood services for a private, non-profit,
community-based agency, I am acutely aware of how difficult it is to navigate
through the system while searching for resources. Quite frequently, after
receiving a lengthy and costly assessment report and a provisional diagnosis,
parents are expected to figure out what to do next, without having enough help
to translate the assessment information into a meaningful and hopeful
intervention. While the obstacles may at times feel insurmountable, productive
and creative partnerships between families and professionals on behalf of
children with challenging behaviors are quite possible. In order to have this
happen, professionals need to embrace less traditional ways of working with
children and families and be willing to step "outside of the box." Parents, on
the other hand, need information, advocacy skills, and lots of genuine support,
so that they can feel confident about making good decisions for their children
and themselves.

I urge Heather Dominguez to continue her dialogue with the school district--
before "a problem arises" -- to get the support she needs to continue being a
tenacious and passionate advocate on behalf of her son.

-- Jamina Nadaner
Director of Early Childhood Services
ACHIEVE
Palo Alto

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 26, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 143 words

* A widely used antidepressant -- SmithKlein Beecham's drug Paxil, or paroxetine
-- seems to help people with severe social anxiety, a University of
California-San Diego study says. The results appear in this week's Journal of
the American Medical Association.

* Prison officials must stop reading the legal mail of condemned murderer Mumia
Abu-Jamal and allow him to write professionally while he is on death row, a
federal appeals court ruled in Philadelphia. Abu-Jamal is on death row for the
1981 slaying of Philadelphia police officer Daniel Faulkner.

* Cries for help led Border Patrol agents to 113 illegal immigrants crammed into
a tractor-trailer rig at a Texas immigration checkpoint. The immigrants were
dehydrated and nearly asphyxiated after spending up to 10 hours in the truck
before it was stopped 90 miles southeast of El Paso.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 27, 1998 Thursday SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

IMMIGRATION CHIEF OUTLINES CATCH-UP EFFORT AIM IS TO REDUCE CITIZENSHIP BACKLOG

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 634 words


Conceding that the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is playing
technological catch-up, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said Wednesday that
officials are working furiously to cut the time it takes to get a citizenship
interview to six months.

"For us, computers are a new thing," she said. "Obviously that should not be the
case."

Nationally, the average wait for an INS interview is 18 months. In San Jose,
it's two years, the longest wait in the local office's history.

In an interview with the Mercury News editorial board, Meissner said a beefed-up
staff, a new digital fingerprinting system and a new computer system that tracks
each application should reduce the wait nationwide to 10 to 12 months by fall
'99.

In the following year, the wait should be reduced to six months, Meissner said.
She cautioned, however, that she wasn't making any promises, in part because
Congress must still approve new INS funding requests.

"This agency has not been very forward looking in the last 10 to 20 years,"
Meissner said. "We're playing a huge catch-up game."

With more than 1.9 million immigrants waiting to become Americans,
Meissnerearlier this month laid out an ambitious plan to spend $171 million to
help her staff dig out from under a mountain of paperwork.

Meissner said the INS expects to process 1.5 million of the backlogged
applications by fall 1999. The agency also plans to more than double the fee for
the citizenship application, from $95 to $225, beginning in January.

Immigrant-rights groups said they were concerned the fee increase would prevent
thousands of immigrants from becoming Americans, but Meissner promised Wednesday
to develop a fair and uniform policy on waivers for the poor by October. She
acknowledged that the INS lacks such a system now.

Meissner said she expects the number of citizenship applicants received
nationwide to be cut from 1.58 million last year to 850,000 this year, giving
the besieged agency a breather.

Santa Clara County has spent more than $1 million getting more than 10,000
immigrants to sign up to become citizens. But Richard Hobbs, the county's
citizenship director, said that as far as he knows, not one of those applicants
has yet been interviewed by the INS.

In January 1997, when the county launched its unprecedented effort to turn
immigrants into citizens, the wait in San Jose was only six months.

Hobbs said he was more than a little skeptical that the INS would be able to
meet its new goals.

"It's such a shell game with these numbers," he said. "All I see is a backlog
that is not declining. We get the brunt of all of the calls from incredibly
frustrated people."

In the first program of its kind, the INS last week began employing local
welfare recipients to help process the San Jose backlog, which now stands at
65,000 applications.

Adding up to 10 welfare recipients to open mail and enter data will nearly
double the size of the permanent clerical staff here. The workers' salaries will
be paid by the county.

Lois Camille Chappell, the head of the San Jose office, said the new workers
will help free INS hearing officers from clerical duties. The number of San Jose
officers is now at 29, up from 18 or 19 a year ago, Chappell said.

The local office is now interviewing an average of 2,500 citizenship applicants
a month and hopes to increase that to 5,000 a month soon, officials said
Wednesday. In addition, the agency has opened two fingerprinting centers, one in
San Jose and one in Salinas.

The new digital fingerprinting systems have cut the error rate from roughly 50
percent to under 5 percent, Meissner said.

"We've not been an agency known for customer service," the INS chief said.
"We're changing that. . . . We're coming into the modern age."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
Santa Clara County will hold two "citizenship days" in September and October.
The first will be at the Alum Rock United Methodist Church, 30 Kirk Ave., San
Jose, on Tuesday, Sept. 29, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m and from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. The
second will be held all day at the county government center at 70 W. Hedding
St., San Jose. Free services such as photographs and assistance in filling out
forms will be available. For more information, call the Santa Clara County
Citizenship Program at (408) 299-2206.SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final
edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JUDITH CALSON -- MERCURY NEWS
Doris Meissner affirms a need for technology.
[980827 LO 1B SC 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 29, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. STOPS SHIP FULL OF CHINESE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 91 words


Coast Guard officials in the Pacific have intercepted a ship crammed with more
than 150 alleged illegal immigrants from China in the latest of a spate of
attempts to smuggle Chinese job-seekers into the United States, U.S. officials
said Friday. The ship, a 180-foot converted fishing vessel, was stopped Thursday
by a cutter in international waters about 100 miles off the coast of northern
Mexico, officials said. Two Coast Guard cutters have detained the ship, and
federal investigators have been sent to question the crew and passengers.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 3, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS BUREAUCRACY DELAYS A DREAM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 1266 words


I am one of the unlucky persons who have been made to wait for citizenship due
to problems with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Sixteen months after applying, I finally got my interview call last week. The
INS checked my fingerprints and documents, but my application was rejected due
to a small technicality.

The rules say that you have to be in this country with a green card for five
years; I have completed six years now. But they also say you can only apply for
citizenship after you have been in the country for four years and nine months. I
was not aware of this rule. As it turned out, I applied after four years and
eight months in the country -- one month earlier than I should have.

The INS did not inform me of any problems while the application was pending for
16 months, during which time I went twice to check my status. Instead of
penalizing me by pushing my application back by a month, they just rejected my
application and told me that I need to re-apply and again wait for another two
years.

The INS officer told me that I can appeal the decision but that the INS is not
responsible for checking the validity of applications when it receives them.

This is really a waste of resources. Instead of wasting the time of an
interviewing officer and other personnel, it might serve the people better if
the INS would at least check the validity of applications when it receives them.
It might help to reduce the backlog more quickly.

I was hoping to vote in the November elections, but now it looks like a distant
dream.

-- Sanjay Kalra
Santa Clara
Let the wild pigs live

I was amazed to read of the wild pig situation in local South Santa Clara County
parks (Page 1B, Aug. 31).

It's not surprising that the pigs are present; declining water levels in the
higher altitudes have brought the pigs in search of water at lower elevations.
What does amaze me is that the ultimate solution is to shoot the pigs.

Does it not make sense that if one pig is killed, another pig will appear to
take its place? The habitat is right for the pigs, given the presence of food
and water. Therefore, pigs will show up. The fact that people are increasingly
moving into areas previously populated by wild pigs, and bringing food and water
with them, generates the conflict of land usage.

If people wish to go to back country areas, perhaps they need to package and
store their food much as people in Yosemite and other similar areas do. Or,
perhaps people need to stay away from areas that still belong to wild animals.
To simply shoot the animals which come in contact with the people is a terribly
short-sighted solution to a growing problem of human-wild animal contact.

-- Alison Kruk
San Jose
I can't believe that anyone who ventures out into the wild should feel they have
some kind of right to not be bothered by wildlife that lives in the area. This
includes wild animals whose land we occupy.

The article on wild pigs states that they have never attacked anyone and are not
known for doing so, but if some people complain about them, the rangers may go
out and shoot them. How sad that a hog which occasionally eats someone's
breakfast should die as a result. Maybe if people were smarter they would put
their food up and not leave it out.

Wild animals have gotten a very bad break as it is. If we want to camp inareas
set aside for wildlife, we should not expect them to go away while we are there.
When people go camping they should do it out of a desire to enjoy nature, not to
destroy what is left of it.

-- Dana Mardaga
San Jose
Alternatives to big signs

UPON seeing the mock-up of the proposed Knight Ridder sign on top of the
Fairmont Plaza building (Page 1B, Aug. 22), I am compelled to invite the
Redevelopment Agency staff to take a stroll to South First Street and view the
eye-strain inducing sign of the former Dimensions night club. The point being:
These mistakes are obvious and long-standing, so why not explore alternatives?

A few are:

* Erect a three-dimensional sculpture of the Knight-Ridder logo and name at
ground level. This would tie in with the existing sculptures near the adjacent
San Jose Museum of Art.

* Rename the Fairmont Plaza the Knight Ridder building, which the city has
allowed it to do.

* Install brass lobby wall signs with the Knight Ridder name and logo.

* Put the Knight Ridder logo in marble on the lobby floor.

Any of the above ideas and possibly many others would give Knight Ridder the
recognition it seeks while respecting and enhancing the existing image of
downtown San Jose.

-- Diane Schmidt
Santa Clara
Nature is cruel
I attended the circus on Saturday, and enjoyed the show including the animals. I
paid particular attention to the animals, and took note at how healthy they
looked. I think this special observation was due to the animal rights pickets at
the entrance of the arena.

This week, Mark Berman from the Earth Island Institute criticized the Mercury
News for promoting the circus (Letters, Aug. 31). He cites various reasons why
the animals are being mistreated.

It is my opinion that because many of these animals have been born in captivity
that it would be the utmost cruelty to release them to the wild and sure death
by starvation or brutal attack by predators. The circus animals are in the
natural environment they were born to, or have been conditioned to over time.

The actual cruel treatment of all animals is in nature. The utmost in cruelty is
what these animals do to each other. I suggest that those who want to picket for
kind treatment to animals take their picket signs to the forest and display them
for the multitude of predators that in nature rip their prey apart and in some
cases start to consume them while they are still alive.

-- Dave Sargent
San Jose
Stanford's sensible solution
OURS is no longer a bucolic, rural residential area. Silicon Valley has changed
all that. We are becoming a very large industrial community, whether we like it
or not. The entire Peninsula has attracted and fostered new industries
associated with the dynamic character of the computer revolution. The very fact
of traffic gridlock demands that commute traffic be minimized.

Stanford is intent on doing something to bring housing closer to the campus for
its students, faculty and employees with the Sand Hill Road project, and now
with a very progressive housing expansion on campus (Page 1B, Aug. 29, Peninsula
edition) to attract the best students and the best faculty in competition with
other centers of learning.

There are those who snidely suggest that Stanford has subverted its educational
objectives and responsibilities into commercial money-making by leasing Stanford
land to industry. This wrong-headed and unfair allegation is reflective of
sniggling small-mindedness. How else could Stanford afford to undertake the Sand
Hill project and initiate the latest costly effort to improve student and
faculty housing on campus? These ambitious objectives require a firm financial
base which Stanford has as a result of far-sighted leasing programs that have
worked so well, not only for Stanford, but also for the nurturing of the
electronic and computer industry.

I expect that those in opposition to change will, as they did in suing Stanford
and Palo Alto over Sand Hill Road, again resort to every conceivabledevice to
block, in the name of the environment and traffic congestion, the very means by
which a reasonable solution to those problems can be found. I hope they will
reconsider.

-- Preston Brown
Menlo Park

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 4, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 237 words

* The U.S. Coast Guard announced that it had intercepted 30 Cubans trying to
reach Florida in an overcrowded boat, the latest large group of Cuban immigrants
trying to enter the state illegally. The group -- 13 men, nine women, five boys
and three girls jammed aboard a 30-foot boat -- was picked up off Duck Key,
Fla., south of Marathon in the Florida Keys. The U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service was interviewing the Cubans on Thursday.

* Six children were found dead in their St. Paul, Minn., apartment Thursday
night, and their mother was in custody as a suspect, police said. Police would
not say how the children -- ages 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 -- had died. Three of the
victims were girls and three were boys. The 911 dispatch center received a
suicide call from a townhouse on the city's east side at about 7:30 p.m., police
said. When officers arrived, they found the children along with a woman lying on
the porch of the home. She was hospitalized and was in police custody.

* Vietnamese dissident Doan Viet Hoat arrived at Los Angeles International
Airport on Thursday. "After eight years being in prison, finally I again become
a free man," Hoat told reporters after arriving from Thailand. Hoat, 55, a
journalist who is Vietnam's most prominent dissident, was released from jail
Monday. His health "has been deteriorating dangerously," he said, and he had
been in isolation for four years.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 10, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' FAMILY HEALTH SINKS REPORT: AN INITIAL EDGE WEARS OFF WITH
ASSIMILATION AS THE 2ND GENERATION SHOWS MORE OBESITY, DRUG USE, ILLNESS.

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 781 words


Challenging popular notions about the benefits of life in the United States, a
new federal report supports growing evidence that coming to this country
actually seems to be unhealthy for children of foreign-born parents.

Despite their disproportionate rate of poverty, children in immigrant families
initially "appear to experience better health and adjustment than do children in
U.S.-born families," according to the National Research Council report made
public Wednesday. But the evidence -- much of it considered highly tentative and
in need of further study -- suggests that edge wears off with assimilation.

Many possible causes

"Over time and across generations . . . as immigrant children become part of
American society, many of these advantages do not appear to be sustained," the
report said, causing many such youngsters to fall behind U.S.-born children in
various health measurements.

The report -- which largely ignores the health of parents -- didn't attempt to
pinpoint the cause of the apparent decline, although it speculated that
everything from the prevalence of fatty foods to the large number of fractured
families in this country may be partly responsible.

The deteriorating physical and mental health of many U.S. immigrants over
generations has become the subject of a growing body of research. The trend was
detailed in August in a series of articles by the Mercury News Washington
Bureau, "The Health Gap: Life and Death in Minority America."

But the 314-page federal report -- assembled by researchers from around the
country -- is the most comprehensive so far, said the study's director, Donald
Hernandez. "It's really important because these kids are a big chunk of our
future," he said.

Titled "From Generation to Generation: The Health and Well-Being of Children in
Immigrant Families," the report cites numerous apparent health advantages that
children of foreign-born parents have over those with U.S.-born parents.

These include fewer "acute infectious and parasitic diseases; acute ear
infections; acute accidents; chronic respiratory conditions such as bronchitis,
asthma, and hay fever; and chronic hearing, speech, and deformity impairments,"
the report said. It added that immigrant children also tend to exhibit less
neurological impairment, obesity and risk-taking behavior "such as early sexual
activity; use of cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana, or hard drugs; delinquency; and
use of violence."

Still, the federal report cautioned that much of its data is incomplete and
highly questionable, as it often relies on subjective assessments by children's
parents. That can be a problem because immigrant parents may be less aware of --
or willing to admit -- their children's health problems.

Broad range of ailments

It also warned that it is perilous to generalize about immigrants, since their
health can vary greatly depending on the country of origin. Children of
Mexican-born parents, for example, are especially likely to have dental problems
and elevated levels of lead in their blood, it said. Other nations send a
disproportionate percentage of families here with malaria, hepatitis B and
drug-resistant tuberculosis.

In Santa Clara County, about 40,000 foreign-born children were counted in the
1990 census. Many newcomers to Santa Clara County's Refugee Health Clinic in San
Jose arrived with anemia and parasites, although otherwise in good health, said
officials there.

But the degree of ailments varied widely, said Celia Pedroza, a physician
assistant at the clinic. She said children from Bosnia tended to be in the best
health, while "the worst ones would be probably the Somalis," because they
frequently lacked any access to health care in their homeland.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
HOW CHILDREN FARED
In a federal study on the health of children from immigrant families,
"second-generation" adolescents -- born here to immigrant parents -- trailed
"first-generation" adolescents -- born abroad -- in a number of health
categories.
First         Second
generation    generation
Health less than good             9.2%          10.7%
Learning difficulties             9.3%          12.5%
Obesity                          17.0%          26.7%
Asthma                            4.8%           8.1%
4 or more delinquent acts        15.8%          25.0%
3 or more violent acts           14.6%          21.3%
Abuse 3 or more substances        8.3%          17.4%
Based on surveys of 1,651 first-generation adolescents and 2,526
second-generation adolescents in 1995. The author states that differences as
small as 0.1 percentage point are significant.
Source: National Research Council

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

              September 10, 1998 Thursday FINAL - MILPITAS EDITION

PROFESSOR RELATES THE STORY OF HIS LIFE 'LA MARIPOSA':BOOK ILLUSTRATES
CHALLENGES FACED BY IMMIGRANT CHILDREN.

BYLINE: LARAMIE TREVINO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 466 words


This fall, "La Mariposa," is soaring into the literary circles of children's
literature, going straight to the heart of the immigrant experience.

"La Mariposa," or "The Butterfly," the newest book written by Santa Clara
University Professor Francisco Jimenez, will be released in October by Houghton
Mifflin Co. in a Spanish and English edition.

The partly autobiographical tale, accompanied with richly hued illustrations by
Southern California artist Simon Silva, takes the reader through the first year
of school for a Spanish-speaking migrant child who is unable to understand the
language of his teacher and classmates. Out of frustration and loneliness, the
child turns his attention toward the class caterpillar that will develop into a
glorious, colorful creature. The story touches on the isolation, generosity and
emotional- growth potential of the human spirit.

"The story is unique to a particular individual, but it is universal in theme,"
says Jimenez, 55, who repeated first grade because of language difficulties.

Even English-speaking children who feel alienated can find themselves in "La
Mariposa," Jimenez said. "It speaks to all children who are excluded because
they are different in any way."

Mexico-born Jimenez broke from the farm worker cycle and got an college
education. After teaching at Columbia University, where he earned his graduate
degree, he returned to Santa Clara, where he'd received his bachelor's degree
and where during his 25-year tenure, he has captured just about every top award
available to faculty members.

Currently the chairman of SCU's modern languages and literatures department,
Jimenez is much in demand as a speaker in East San Jose classrooms, libraries,
radio and television shows and community functions.

Memories of his adolescence -- such as being taken from his junior high school
class by Border Patrol agents and deported to Mexico -- are retraced in "The
Circuit: Stories from the Life of a Migrant Child," a 12-story collection
published a year ago by University of New Mexico Press. In its third printing,
the book won the 1998 Boston Globe-Horn Book Award for fiction, the 1997
Americas Award for Children's and Young Adult Literature and the California
Association's 10th Annual John and Patricia Beatty Award.

During readings from the collection, listeners, including one Asian immigrant,
have been moved to tears. Such reactions don't surprise the Jimenez: "My story
is the story of many immigrant children."

"La Mariposa" ends on a high note with the migrant child finding affirmation of
his native tongue and with him extending an olive branch to the bully who
terrorized him. Readers can conclude that different cultures and children can
co-exist and become enriched in the process, Jimenez said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Francisco Jimenez will give a pre-release reading of "La Mariposa" at 6
p.m. Sept. 19 at Sacred Heart Parish, 325 Willow St., in San Jose. For
information, call (408) 292-0146. At 7 p.m. Friday he will discuss "Discovery of
Self, Purpose and Place Through Writing," at the West Branch Library, 1125
University Ave., in Berkeley. The event is sponsored by Cafe Literario. For
information, call (510) 644-6870.SHORTER VERSION: page 8B, Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SPECIAL TO THE MERCURY NEWS
Currently the chairman of Santa Clara University's modern languages and
literatures department, Francisco Jimenez is much in demand as a speaker in East
San Jose classrooms, libraries, radio and television shows and community
functions.
[980910 LO 8B FI 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 11, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FACE INS DEADLINE TODAY ONLY GUATEMALANS, SALVADORANS TO FILE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Thousands of Guatemalan and Salvadoran immigrants must file papers by today or
lose the opportunity to stay permanently in the United States, according to a
new law.

The deadline, part of last year's Nicaraguan and Central American Relief Act,
pertains only to immigrants who already have been ordered deported. The law
granted amnesty to Nicaraguan and Cuban emigres, even those who illegally
entered the United States.

But Salvadorans and Guatemalans who fled U.S.-backed regimes must prove their
deportation would cause extreme hardship.

At Los Angeles social service groups such as El Rescate, confusion is rampant
over who is affected by today's deadline.

Central American immigrants also are besieging private lawyers and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Crowds are expected to grow.

"There is a lot of apprehension out there," said Robert Foss, a lawyer at El
Rescate.

Anyone with final orders of deportation must file a one-page petition with the
immigration courts to reopen his or her case and become eligible under the new
law.

Many Central American immigrants don't know if they have been ordered deported.
Often, the deportation documents were sent to wrong addresses or issued in
absentia. INS officials and immigration courts say they don't know how many
final orders of deportation are pending.

They are not illegal immigrants, having been given temporary legal status in
1990 when a landmark court settlement allowed hundreds of thousands of
Salvadorans and Guatemalans to remain here until their cases were decided. Most
have annually renewed INS work permits.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 15, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VALLEY COMPANIES NEED THE RIGHT SKILLS NOW

BYLINE: AART DE GEUS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 707 words


SOME people question whether increasing immigration quotas for high-tech jobs
hurts American workers. I'd like to share my experience and that of my company
to show how legal immigration benefits all Americans.

Many high-technology companies cannot find enough qualified engineers and
scientists to fill the advanced technical positions they have available. Certain
high-tech jobs require such specialized education, skills and experience that
there are far fewer qualified candidates than the number of opportunities
available. To stay competitive, American companies are forced to look beyond our
borders to find the highly specialized workers they need.

Part of the problem is that not enough American students are pursuing careers in
math and science. Last year, only 1 percent of incoming freshmen at U.S.
colleges and universities said they would pursue computer engineering, and only
three percent planned to be computer science majors. One of our recruiters
recently interviewed a dozen engineering candidates at an Ivy League school. Ten
of them were foreign-born.

In many states, high school students need only one year of math and science to
graduate, hardly the foundation for engineering courses in college.

Opponents of hiring foreign workers say employing "technical" workers from other
disciplines and retraining them is the answer. For better or worse, we live in
an age of job specialization. It might take a laid-off defense worker as long to
become an expert in electronic design automation, for example, asit would a
laid-off dentist to become a qualified heart surgeon. We need to keep up with
Moore's Law, which predicts a staggering 100 percent increase in chip complexity
every 18 months.

We need to develop and get our tools to market quickly, and we need people with
highly specialized skills to do that now, not after a lengthy retraining
program.

Those who oppose increasing H-1B visas claim that many companies would lay off
American workers and use immigrants to reduce wages. This charge could not be
farther from the truth. The average wage paid to H-1 B visa holders here at
Synopsys is $74,157, and even with the current weakness in the semiconductor
industry, we currently have 329 open jobs we are trying to fill.

From an employer's point of view, it's not cheaper to hire a foreign worker.
Aside from paying a strong average wage, there are extra legal and human
resource support expenses involved in hiring an H-1B visa employee. For every
visa application we submit we must also prove that we're offering the equivalent
of an equally trained and experienced American worker's salary. In fact, the
Department of Labor can compel us to pay more if it thinks our applicant
deserves it.

As a business, we need to hire the best and brightest, and we're willing to pay
for them. As a nation, it is in America's best interests to attract talented
people who help create new products that in turn create new jobs and fuel our
economic growth.

The economic boom of the 1990s has been driven by high tech, and one of the
reasons America's high-tech industry has become so dominant is that we are the
only country in the world that is so open to talented people from other
countries.

Many of the companies leading Silicon Valley's charge were started by
immigrants. These companies have created new jobs for American workers and new
wealth for American investors.

As someone who is both an immigrant and the founder of a technology company, I
am honored to say that our company now employs more than 2,000 people in the
United States, contributing to the competitiveness of the American electronics
industry and to the U.S. balance of trade.

Going forward, we are committed to helping find (and fund) a solution to the
problem of too few qualified workers. One focus of my company's corporate giving
program is to help public schools improve the quality of math and science
education. That goal is not a quick fix to the staffing dilemma we face now, but
it's a start.

In the meantime, we face a critical shortage of technically qualified engineers
and scientists. We need Congress to increase the number of H-1B visas, not to
help foreign workers, but to help ourselves.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: H-1B visas: What's your opinion?
The Opinion pages are hosting an online forum on whether the limit on H-1B visas
should be increased. You may post your views at www.mercurycenter.com:
opinion.OPINION
Aart de Geus is chairman and CEO of Synopsys, which makes electronic design
automation tools for the semiconductor industry.

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 16, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE ONLY HIGH-TECH SHORTAGE IS ONE OF CHEAP LABOR

BYLINE: NORMAN MATLOFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 975 words


COMPUTER industry lobbyists want Congress to raise the cap in the H-1B work visa
program so that the computer industry can import more foreign computer
programmers. Yet a Department of Labor audit found widespread abuse in the
program, and the pro-immigration economist Demetrios Papademetriou called H-1B
"a sham, a hoax."

The number of visas for foreign computer programmers has been increasing 10
times faster than the growth rate in jobs. The attraction is often cheap,
compliant labor. If an employer sponsors an H-1B worker for permanent residence,
the employee is essentially immobile during the several years while the green
card is pending. The worker does not want to start the green card process all
over again with a new employer, and thus is highly exploitable, receiving fewer
and smaller raises, and working longer hours than would a regular employee.

Consequently the foreign nationals tend to be underpaid in their first five to
ten years in the U.S. Papademetriou found that they were being paid as much as
30 percent below average. UCLA Asian-American studies professor Paul Ong found
similar gaps in wages, complaining that "companies took advantage of
immigrants."

My own analysis specific to Silicon Valley found that the immigrants were paid
15 to 20 percent less than the natives.

The claim of a desperate high-tech labor shortage is a myth. Firms admit that
they have no shortage of applicants and further concede that they hire fewer
than 5 percent of them. This occurs across the board, from Microsoft (2 percent)
to Qualcomm (4.5 percent) to the small startup Associative Cognition of San
Jose, which cautions applicants about "the high volume of resumes that we have
been receiving." If employers were desperate, they simply could not be so picky.

Urban Institute economist Robert Lerman points out that the claims of a shortage
do not jibe with the fact that programmer salaries increased by only 7 percent
last year. If you were an employer who was desperate to hire, wouldn't you be
willing to pay a premium of more than 7 percent? A recent study by UC-Berkeley
Professor Clair Brown also found no evidence of a high-tech labor shortage.

The only "shortage" is that of cheap labor, in the form of H-1B workers and
younger new college graduates. Age discrimination is rampant in the industry.
The industry's claims of a shortage of programmers ring hollow for Bay Area
resident Paul Petersen. Laid off three years ago at age 40 -- and replaced by a
much younger worker -- he has been unable to find another job as a programmer.
He has had to work outside the programming field, such as a sales clerk for
one-third of his former salary. (This illustrates the fact that the low
unemployment rates hyped by lobbyists are meaningless. When programmers like
Peterson are forced to find jobs in other fields, they do not show up in
unemployment statistics.)

NeuroSystems CEO Ed Robertson told the Washington Times he prefers the younger
people because, "If we . . . [hire] a 40-year-old software engineer, we'll have
to pay that individual more." In the book "Inside Intel," Intel's new CEO, Craig
Barrett, replied to a corporate downsizing question by dismissively commenting,
"The half-life of a software or hardware engineer is only a few years." Sun
Microsystems classifies as "senior" anyone with six years of experience,
typically at age 28!

The employers claim that most "senior" workers are not qualified, because they
do not have hot new software skills, such as the Java programming language. But
any competent programmer could become productive in Java in a couple of weeks,
learning on the job. Yet even if a programmer takes a Java course, employers
will not hire him or her on that basis; they want actual work experience.

And even work experience often won't get older people a job. Bill Halchin, 47,
does have the latest skills -- network protocols, Java and so on -- and yet
still was unemployed for four months in early 1998. He has nearly two decades of
experience in operating system kernel design. Yet when he applied to Sun
Microsystems after the firm stated that it needed to hire H-1Bs to fill kernel
development positions, Halchin was not even given an interview.

The industry says it hires H-1Bs because they are "the best and the brightest."
It certainly hires the best and brightest lobbyists, who have slickly distorted
this issue. For example, the lobbyists say that most H-1Bs are recruited as
foreign students in U.S. university graduate programs, which is blatantly false.

Only about 2,000 foreign students are awarded Master's and Ph.D. degrees in
computer science each year, just a tiny fraction of the more than 40,000 H-1B
visas issued to foreign computer professionals annually. The vast majority of
H-1Bs are ordinary people doing ordinary work.

The Department of Labor found that most H-1Bs were being paid in the
$40,000-50,000 range, hardly what "world-class geniuses" make in this field.

The lobbyists have also severely distorted information on undergraduate
education in computer science. Claiming that enrollment is on the decline, they
suppressed information showing that enrollment has been skyrocketing in recent
years. They also falsely imply that most of the computer science undergraduates
are foreign students, when in fact only 6 percent of bachelor's degrees in the
field are awarded to such students.

Red Herring magazine, the "business bible" of high-tech, conceded in its July
issue that firms reject most of their applicants, engage in age discrimination
and hire H-1Bs as cheap labor. Yet it brazenly maintained that "if companies say
they want to hire more skilled foreign workers because those workers are
cheaper, we should believe them -- and increase the number of visas issued."

Something is very wrong with this picture.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANOTHER VIEW
Dr. Norman Matloff is a professor of computer science atUC-Davis. As this is a
complex issue in which details are key, please see the author's paper at http::
heather.cs.ucdavis.edu: itaa.html.
RELATED STORIES: page 6B

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 19, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

174 CHINESE MIGRANTS SAIL INTO SAN DIEGO AFTER 2 MONTHS ON BOAT, MOST FACE
DEPORTATION

BYLINE: PAULA STORY, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


After more than two months at sea, 174 Chinese migrants who endured hunger and
thirst on a filthy fishing boat finally made it to their destination Friday.

But their stay in the United States won't be permanent. Most will be deported
back to China after receiving food, medical care and an interrogation by the
federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"They looked kind of confused, scared," INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said as
the first group of immigrants was led from their ship docked downtown on San
Diego Bay to three buses.

The migrants boarded the Chih Yung about 78 days ago with plans to illegally
enter the United States via Mexico, authorities said. The boat was intercepted
by federal authorities three weeks ago about 100 miles off the northern coast of
Mexico.

The ship has floated in international waters ever since as the U.S. State
Department decided what to do with the migrants.

After negotiations with Mexican authorities stalled, the United States opted to
bring the boat to San Diego rather than prolong the migrants' stay on the
185-foot craft, whose main compartment had filled with water, oil and sewage,
State Department spokeswoman Susan Snyder said.

Marched to the end of a pier, the migrants were met by people dressed in white,
synthetic suits, green-tinted face masks and thick rubber gloves to protect
themselves against any contagious diseases.

The migrants huddled shoulder to shoulder, wearing bright orange lifevests
around their necks, as federal authorities and nurse practitioners documented
their physical health and two translators explained to them what was happening.

Their belongings were sprayed with an insecticide, put in plastic bags and
sealed. The people were infested with lice and fleas, Strassberger said.

"From what I understand, there are quite a number of rats on the ship," he
added.

Strassberger said the migrants would be interviewed over the weekend and
officials would determine whether any had legitimate claims for political
asylum.

The men would be housed at a federal detention center in El Centro, about 120
miles east of San Diego, and the women in San Diego, he said. There were 153
males and 21 females on the boat, including 26 boys and nine girls.

Meanwhile, China's top military leader, Gen. Zhang Wannian, arrived in San Diego
on Friday as part of a 10-day visit to the United States. He was scheduled today
to visit the USS Stennis, a Navy nuclear aircraft carrier.

The migrants were found hungry and thirsty Aug. 27 by U.S. Coast Guard crews,
which removed a blue tarp covering the top deck, Strassberger said.

Since that time, federal authorities and Navy doctors had remained with the
boat, supplying the group with rice, vegetables, water, hygiene supplies and
portable toilets.

About a year ago, 69 Chinese immigrants were intercepted in the same area.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 23, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GRAND JURY INDICTS 18 ON SMUGGLING CHARGES

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 178 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Seventeen men and a woman have been charged with trying to smuggle 156 illegal
Chinese immigrants into the United States, an official said Tuesday.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Alberto Arevalo said a federal grand jury indictment
against the 18 alleged smugglers was returned Monday and the defendants entered
not-guilty pleas in U.S. District Court.

A bail hearing was set for Thursday.

The ship carrying the immigrants, the Chih Yung, was stopped off the coast of
Baja California, Mexico, by the U.S. Coast Guard on Aug. 27 and detained
offshore until Friday, when it was escorted into the San Diego Naval Station.

The immigrants are being held in various local detention centers while the
Immigration and Naturalization Service decides whether they qualify for
political asylum.

INS officials said all but three of the defendants were from China.

Two are from Taiwan, and the nationality of the third is unclear, they said.

If found guilty, the defendants could be sentenced to prison terms of up to 10
years and fines of as much as $250,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 7, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAMILY REUNITES AT LAST VIET IMMIGRANTS, MOTHER SPENT NINE YEARS APART

BYLINE: GIL JOSE DURAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 787 words


TRAN KIM BINH ran her fingers through her daughter's hair, then embraced her son
and her two other children.

"This is all that I ever wanted," Binh said Tuesday in Vietnamese through a
translator. "I'm whole now that I can be with my children."

Just a few minutes earlier, she had walked through the double doors into San
Francisco International Airport, wiping tears from her eyes as she saw her
children for the first time in years. For her children, Tuan, Loan, Tu-Anh and
Trinh Nguyen, the reunion marked a joyful end to years of painful separation.
They were a family again.

Binh's arrival in the United States is a bittersweet victory -- a dream that
most likely would have been deferred for years without the tragic death of her
husband, Suong Nguyen. Suong was killed in March after his car hit a parked van.
He was 46.

With their mother stuck in Vietnam because of an immigration glitch, the
children -- the youngest is 11 -- suddenly had to fend for themselves. They were
forced to move into their aunt's home near downtown San Jose. There, nine people
share a one-bedroom cottage.

One of the children, Loan, has cerebral palsy and severe scoliosis -- a
condition exacerbated by years of medical neglect in Vietnam -- and requires
constant care. The 18-year-old weighs just 50 pounds and uses a wheelchair. She
can't speak or use her arms or legs; she communicates using only facial
expressions.

For 21-year-old Tuan, Binh's only son and the eldest of her four children, his
mother's arrival is the answer to his prayers. After his father's death, Tuan
visited his temple almost daily, praying for the reunion.

"This is really wonderful," he said, as the family left the airport for their
San Jose home. "We have gotten back the most valuable thing there is in the
world, our mother. We had lost her for a very long time."

Fled Vietnam

Binh was separated from her family for almost 10 years after Suong, Tuan andLoan
fled communist Vietnam by boat to seek medical treatment for the disabled girl.
In 1993, after spending four years in a Malaysian refugee camp, all three were
allowed into the United States as refugees.

Two years ago, the two younger girls were allowed to join their father, but Binh
was forced to remain in Vietnam because the U.S. government did not consider the
couple's marriage valid. The pair married in 1975 in a simple religious
ceremony, but, like many in rural Vietnam, they did not register their union
with the state.

Bay Area took interest

The family's plight sparked a flood of support from throughout the Bay Area.
More than 5,000 people signed letters, which were given to Rep. Zoe Lofgren,
D-San Jose. Loan's doctors also pleaded on her behalf and a couple of wealthy
Vietnamese-Americans agreed to assume financial responsibility for Binh upon her
arrival here. Radio stations collected money for the family and immigration
attorney Bruce Burns volunteered his services.

Lofgren persuaded the Immigration and Naturalization Service to grant Binh a
six-month visa through a process called humanitarian parole, a rare immigration
waiver granted only in extraordinary hardship cases. Binh will be able to stay
here permanently once Tuan becomes a citizen and sponsors his mother.

"Nothing is more wonderful -- or necessary -- than the unification of a family,"
Lofgren said in a written statement. "After so much tragedy and heartache, the
Nguyens couldn't be more deserving of the happiness I am sure they are
experiencing today."

Tuan, who recently returned from basic training for the U.S. Army Reserve in
Georgia, has applied for citizenship but because of the INS backlog, the process
could take up to two years. Burns, the family's immigration attorney, said Binh
may have to return to Vietnam when her visa expires. He said he would be working
with Lofgren to find a way to extend Binh's stay until her son could sponsor
her.

"It's going to be hard to get the Vietnamese and American governments to
cooperate and keep this mother with her kids, but that's where she needs to be,"
Burns said.

Although Binh's stay may not be permanent, her arrival was a renewal of faith
for many of the people working to bring the family together.

'Rewarding' day

"We'll need all of the help we can get to keep her here permanently," said
Claire Heinzelman, of Parents Helping Parents, a support network that has been
aiding the family. "But today is very rewarding. The system actually worked this
time."

But for Binh, her stay -- no matter how brief -- will be priceless.

The first thing she said she wanted to do in the United States was rest after
her 20-hour flight from Vietnam. Then, she said, "I will start taking care of my
children."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: MICHAEL RONDOU -- MERCURY NEWS
Tran Kim Binh takes a moment with her son, Tuan Nguyen, with whom she was
reunited Tuesday.
[981007 FR 10A]
PHOTO: MICHAEL RONDOU -- MERCURY NEWS
Tran Kim Binh greets her children, including Tuan and Loan Nguyen, center. The
death of Binh's husband had left the children on their own.
[981007 FR 1A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 11, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SKILLED-IMMIGRANTS BILL FAILS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Legislation to allow nearly twice as many computer-savvy foreigners and other
highly skilled immigrants into the country next year was still stalled Saturday
and appeared to have died in Congress.

The House passed the compromise measure last month, 288-133, but Sen. Tom
Harkin, D-Iowa, had blocked a vote in the Senate. With both houses working
toward adjournment, it is unlikely the bill can make it through Congress this
year.

Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., expressed frustration Saturday with
Harkin's opposition, which is allowed under Senate rules.

The proposal, backed by high-tech companies, would raise the limit of so-called
H-1B visas granted each year to skilled workers from abroad. Some 65,000 visas
are now granted each year, and this year's allotment ran out in May. The bill
would raise the annual cap on these special visas to 115,500 for the next two
years and to 107,500 in 2001. The ceiling would return to 65,000 in 2002.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 17, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 330 words

* Proposals to overhaul the federal immigration service, allow more foreign
workers into the county and delay a border-identification policy were part of
the last-minute issues sorted out in the giant budget bill.Congressional leaders
and the White House agreed to appropriate $171 million to help clear the backlog
of citizenship applications that has been accumulating over the last decade.

* Money to fix the computer "millennium bug" is one of several "emergency"
expenses totaling $20 billion in the new federal budget. And while it has been
known for months that U.S. troops in Bosnia would require funds, since they have
been there since 1995 and have no departure date, the budget puts $1.9 billion
for their operations in the same "emergency" package. Under federal law, once
Congress and the president agree that a program is an emergency, ordinary
spending limits do not apply. But this year's expansion of the category has some
experts warning of a breakdown in the fiscal discipline that helped deliver the
first budget surplus in three decades. The emergency package also includes $7
billion for military readiness and anti-missile defense, $1.8 billion to add
security at U.S. embassies abroad and $6 billion in disaster aid for farmers.

* Dan Gecker, the lawyer for Kathleen Willey, an unwilling witness in the Paula
Jones case, is representing Jones' former attorneys in their battle to get paid,
injecting new acrimony to the fight over the hypothetical settlement. One of
Jones' current attorneys, John Whitehead, accused his predecessors of
inflexibility and said they were imperiling efforts to settle the case before
Tuesday, the day lawyers go to an appeals court to argue the April dismissal of
Jones' sexual-harassment suit against President Clinton.

* Contracts for $1.88 billion to Boeing and $1.15 billion to Lockheed Martin
were awarded for new space-launch rockets and launch support to the military.

]

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO: Jones
[981017 FR 4A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

             October 22, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL STREET EDITION

WIDOW MAY REMAIN IN U.S., SENATE SAYS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 127 words


A Korean woman who faced deportation after her husband's murder was overjoyed
and relieved Wednesday after the Senate approved a measure that would make her a
permanent U.S. resident, a congressman said.

The bill allowing her to become a permanent resident was passed just minutes
before the Senate adjourned for the year Wednesday.

Jasmin Salehi's husband, Cyrus Salehi, was killed by robbers at a Denny's
restaurant he partly owned in suburban Reseda in February 1996.

After her husband was killed, the San Fernando Valley widow was informed by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service that she would be deported because of a
rule that requires couples to be married two years before a non-citizen spouse
can qualify for permanent residency.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 31, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LEGISLATOR WANTS MORE BORDER AGENTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 83 words


Immigration and Naturalization officials should give Imperial County border
regions the same resources given to San Diego County, a local legislator said.

Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-El Cajon, is asking for more U.S. Border Patrol agents,
and soon.

The concerns of both Duncan and county supervisors come amid a rash of migrant
deaths. More than 113 people have died this year while trying to cross illegally
from Mexico into the rugged desert and mountain areas of southeastern
California.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 25, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WINTER SURVIVAL KITS TO HELP IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 101 words


U.S. Border Patrol agents in San Diego have assembled 100 cold weather survival
kits that will be used to help immigrants suffering from hypothermia.

The kits will be distributed this week to agents working in the cold, windswept
mountains to the east of the city.

The kits contain a wool blanket, an emergency thermal blanket, a canteen of
water, a poncho and chemically activated heat packs to provide first aid to
anyone suffering from exposure.

Agents already have 250 cold weather survival kits and 110 hot weather kits that
were used to rescue more than 140 people since last winter.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 16, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAKE IMMIGRATION-CARD RING BROKEN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 107 words


Federal law enforcement officials have seized more than 22,000 counterfeit
immigration cards and arrested five people who allegedly produced and sold the
documents in the nation's capital. Federal officials say the bust will make it
significantly harder for undocumented workers in the Washington area to obtain
fake "green cards." Arrested were: Omar Hernandez-Garcia, 34, Jose Antonio
Guzman-Sanchez, 32, and Arturo Flores-Flores, 18, all of Washington; and Juan
Jose Penaloza-Perez, 25, and Mario Martinez-Gonzalez, 32, both of Reading, Pa.
All are illegal immigrants from Mexico and could face deportation after they are
tried.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 6, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS RUSH TO BEAT FEE INCREASE JAN. 15: THAT'S WHEN THE INS APPLICATION
FEE FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP WILL INCREASE FROM $95 TO $225.

BYLINE: JENNIFER MENA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 744 words


San Carlos resident Sonia Eppler and thousands of other immigrants share a zeal
this week that's much like the passion of an after-Christmas shopping frenzy.

But theirs is not about a sale on tree trimmings or toys. It's about this week's
low price for U.S. citizenship -- a deal publicized by immigrant advocates. And
it's a limited-time offer.

On Jan. 15, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service will increase the
citizenship application fee 137 percent, from $95 to $225. Immigrants must get
their applications to the INS on Jan. 14 to avoid the higher price.

Immigrant advocacy groups are holding a series of educational forums to help any
last-minute applicants.

"I do want to be a part of what this country is, but I don't want to pay more
for the privilege," said Eppler, a native of Durango, Mexico, who attended a
last-minute citizenship workshop Monday night at the Instituto Internacional in
Redwood City. Her weekly minimum-wage salary at a Burlingame hair salon is $230,
just $5 more than the new fee.

Spike in filings

INS officials expect a spike in citizenship filings, but it's too soon to tell
how many more applications will be sent, they said.

In a cavernous back room at the Center for Employment Training in San Jose, the
Santa Clara County Citizenship Program helped hundreds of immigrants who came
for last-minute assistance Tuesday. Organizers expect to help file about 1,000
applications during a two-week "citizenship blitz."

"I want to vote. I want to know more about the history of this country and, of
course, I want to pay less," said Indelisa Aguayo, a Jalisco, Mexico, native who
earns $110 weekly as a restaurant cook.

Immigrant advocates say that although they expect to see more people than the
200 who showed up early this week, they do not expect throngs. They have been
encouraging applications since the spring, when it became apparent the INS was
going to increase its fees.

Immigrants who have been permanent legal residents for four years and nine
months, or married to a U.S. citizen and in this country two years and nine
months, qualify.

For procrastinators

At this late date, "We're trying to catch the people who said 'later,later,' "
said Teresa Castellanos, Santa Clara County Citizenship Program coordinator. "We
are getting the people who have put this off."

Castellanos said her program has conducted four events that attracted at least
2,000 people each.

There is some concern that those who wait until the end of this week may be out
of luck.

"We're going to see a big rush at the end of the week, but for many people, it
could be too late," said Julio Garcia, Instituto Internacional outreach worker.
"At the last minute, we may not be able to do anything to get the paperwork in."

Castellanos and others have worked hard to get immigrants to apply because they
feel the new fee is unwarranted: "It puts citizenship outside the reach of legal
immigrants just because they are poor."

Lina Avidan, project director of the 12-county Northern California Citizenship
Project, said the new fee is unfair because the INS has not improved its
service. The INS estimates that it takes two years to process citizenship
applications in San Jose and 18 months in San Francisco and Oakland.

"On the one hand, they are making people pay twice as much. And on the other,
there are people who applied in '96 and '97 who are still waiting," Avidan said.

New fee justified

But Rick Oltman, western regional field director for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, said immigrants should be able to pay a $225 fee because
they should be able to support themselves: "It is not everyone's right to be a
citizen of the United States. If we are trying to . . . make a pay-as-you-go
situation, this seems fair."

INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said her agency must increase fees. "If we charge
less than $225, the American taxpayer has to subsidize the naturalization
process. We have been losing money over a period of time."

Rummery said those who can show their income is below the poverty line can apply
for a waiver. Previously, waivers have rarely been granted, immigrant advocates
said.

The increase in the citizenship fee is the last of a series of price increases
for most INS applications. The others went into effect in October. The fee was
last raised in 1994, from $90 to $95. It was raised in 1991 from $60 to $90.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The Citizenship Program of Santa Clara County will continue free assistance
until Saturday each day from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. and on Sunday and Monday from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Center for Employment Training at 701 Vine St. in San
Jose.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: LEN VAUGHN-LAHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
N. Chen, a Vietnamese immigrant, poses for a picture he needs to include with
his application for U.S. citizenship. The application fee will rise from $95 to
$225 on Jan. 15, causing many immigrants to scramble to fill out the required
paperwork.
[990106 LO 1B]
PHOTO: LEN VAUGHN-LAHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Applicants for citizenship fill out forms with the help of Santa Clara
Citizenship Program volunteers.
[990106 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 22, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS HOPES MORE EMPLOYEES, HOTLINE CUT DELAYS AT AGENCY

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 555 words


A year after promising to substantially trim the long lines of immigrants
waiting to become citizens, the Immigration and Naturalization Service on
Thursday announced a plan to hire 300 more employees and create a nationwide
hotline to help aspiring Americans.

Officials said 200 new hearing officers will be hired to interview and screen
applicants. Of those, 10 will work in the San Jose INS office, which has one of
the longest naturalization waits in the country.

Other areas with burgeoning numbers of immigrants will also see substantial
increases in staff. Los Angeles, with the nation's largest backlog, will get 56
new positions. The San Francisco office will hire 15 new officers, and Fresno
and Sacramento five each, INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said.

The addition of San Jose officers follows a near doubling of the number of
authorized positions there in the last year or so. The number of hearing
officers now stands at 40, with four positions vacant, said Frank Fernandez,
assistant officer in charge of the San Jose office.

The staff increase has helped reduce the wait from more than two years last
spring to roughly 18 months now. The San Jose office is trying to meet an INS
goal of reducing that wait to less than a year by Oct. 1, the start of fiscal
year 2000.

"We're eating away at it," Fernandez said.

In addition, 100 immigration information officers will be sent to the four
regional centers where citizenship applications are received and processed in
California, Vermont, Nebraska and Texas. The INS will also develop a national
telephone hotline to answer questions about eligibility for citizenship,
application procedures and individual case status.

Thursday's announcement comes at a time when INS offices around the country are
being forced to make deep cuts in the "enforcement" part of their budgets. INS
agents who track down illegal immigrants are being told to cut down on their use
of gasoline and cell phones.

San Jose officials say they have been ordered to eliminate overtime for clerks
who are helping fingerprint prospective applicants -- and that has threatened to
increase the waiting time, at least for the time being.

Both Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, wrote
letters to INS Commissioner Doris Meissner in response to a Jan. 9 Mercury News
report about the budget cuts in San Jose. Feinstein criticized the elimination
of the overtime budget at a time when the office was finally beginning to reduce
the backlog.

Virginia Kice, an INS representative at the agency's Western regional office in
Laguna Niguel, said Thursday that top INS officials have been meeting to resolve
the crunch and that the agency is expected to begin freeing up more funds by the
first week in February.

Lofgren is cautiously optimistic.

"I sincerely hope that this is the case and that the final budget allocations
allow the San Jose office to perform at a higher level than in the past,"
Lofgren, a member of the House immigration panel, told Meissner in a letter sent
Wednesday.

An internal INS memo cites soaring rent, telecommunication and overtime costs as
reasons for the budget crisis. In addition, the INS has hired so many employees
in the last year that increased budget allocations are being gobbled up by
personnel costs.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The New York Times contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 24, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS ADMITS MIX-UP ON INCREASE IN FEES

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 262 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Friday that it had sent out as
many as 6,500 erroneous notices to citizenship applicants throughout California
informing them that they did not send enough money.

The INS blamed the snafu on new computer software programmed to deal with a fee
increase that took effect Jan. 15.

On that day, citizenship applications jumped from $120 to $250 -- a
controversial move that the INS said was necessary to match the actual cost of
processing the applications.

The problem is that the new software was installed on Jan. 13 and computers
immediately began telling people that their applications were "suspended"
because they owed another $130. The problem was discovered by the agency's
California Service Center in Laguna Niguel on Jan. 14 and fixed the same day,
officials said.

"We have identified all the affected cases and are now sending new, correct
receipt notices to those applicants," said Dona Coultice, the center's director.
"We're also sending a letter of explanation and apology to those people. We
regret the confusion and inconvenience this has caused our customers."

Lina Avidan of the Northern California Citizenship Project said all notices that
show that the application was received on or before Jan. 14 should be ignored.
Applicants should save the notices, but should not send any more money, she
said.

For more information, contact the Immigrant Assistance Line at (415) 543-6767
(Spanish and English), or (415) 543-6769 (Cantonese and Mandarin) or (415)
543-6797 (Vietnamese).

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 2, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VIETNAM BLASTS CALIFORNIA PROTESTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: HANOI


Vietnam has denounced rowdy anti-communist demonstrations in a Vietnamese
immigrant community near Los Angeles as a "wicked plot."

Demonstrations have been going on since January outside a Westminster video shop
owned by Truong Van Tran, who has insisted on displaying the flag of communist
Vietnam and a picture of the late socialist icon Ho Chi Minh in the window.

Many of the 200,000 immigrants who live and shop in Westminster's Little Saigon
-- the biggest concentration of Vietnamese speakers outside Southeast Asia --
are former political prisoners or refugees who despise the communist government.

"It is obvious that those who are behind the protest in California have abused
the situation to wage an outdated and dissonant anti-communist campaign,"
Vietnam's Communist Party newspaper Nhan Dan said Sunday in a commentary
headlined "wicked plot."

"It is ironic that they called for freedom and democracy in Vietnam while using
violence to rob democracy and freedom from people standing right next to them,"
it said.

Twelve police agencies responded in riot gear to demonstrations a week ago. The
unruly crowd overflowed past police barricades, and some threw rocks, sticks,
bottles and containers of urine on officers.

"Who has started and stirred up the dissent and abused the dissent?" Nhan Dan
asked. "It is a group of people who oppose their home country and their
countrymen."

Tran, 37, has said he posted the flag and portrait because he wanted to
encourage fellow Vietnamese to view their homeland in a new way.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 5, 1999 Friday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

DEPORTATION SWEEP NETS 20 IN EAST BAY

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff and wire reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 135 words


Immigration and Naturalization Service agents rounded up 20 people this week in
an East Bay arrest sweep of immigrants convicted of sex, drug, domestic violence
and weapons crimes. Almost all of them face deportation.

The arrests largely targeted child molesters and took place early Monday and
Thursday in Fremont, Newark, Union City, Hayward, Oakland and Alameda.

At least 15 of those arrested had been convicted of sex crimes against children.

One Fremont man arrested in the sweep was convicted of lewd conduct with a child
and assault with a deadly weapon and had previously been deported, INS
spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said.

The names of those arrested were not released.

The deportees' native lands are Mexico, El Salvador, Sierra Leone, Guatemala,
the Philippines and Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Community In Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 6, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 320 words

* The threat of a cyber attack -- an electronic Pearl Harbor -- is the most
immediate, compelling danger facing the United States, ex-government officials
and defense experts told a Senate panel Friday. Their other concerns include the
proliferation of missiles capable of mass destruction among rogue states and
terrorists developing their capability to use chemical and biological weapons.
mccode [N810]

* Setting up another confrontation with Senate Republicans, President Clinton
nominated Bill Lann Lee on Friday to head the Justice Department's civil rights
division. Lee has run the division since December 1997, when Clinton appointed
him acting assistant attorney general to get around conservative Republicans,
who a month earlier had blocked the former NAACP lawyer's confirmation as the
nation's top civil rights enforcer. * The United States will face requests for
financial and humanitarian assistance from developing countries as they scramble
to overcome their year 2000 computer problems, administration officials said at
a Senate hearing. State Department Undersecretary Bonnie Cohen said an
interagency group would soon begin drafting policy options to deal with
countries and economic sectors that may be at risk because of the computer
glitch, popularly known as "Y2K."

* Immigration officials will concentrate on deterring illegal immigration,
giving a lower priority to tracking down and deporting people already here,
according to a new five-year strategy. The plan is taking considerable heat from
immigration critics, who say the policy amounts to de facto amnesty. * Once a
haven for many foreigners fleeing persecution, the United States has erected so
many barriers to potential refugees in recent years that its policies verge on a
serious violation of international human rights standards, according to Dennis
McNamara, director of the U.N. Division of International Protection.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 14, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OFFICIALS HOLDING BOATLOAD OF PEOPLE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 126 words

DATELINE: NEWPORT BEACH


Sixteen suspected illegal immigrants were found Saturday in a 35-foot sport
fishing vessel after a Coast Guard crew spotted the boat during an offshore
search and rescue demonstration.

The Los Angeles-Long Beach Coast Guard officials suspected the people on board
were trying to enter the United States illegally. The fishing boat was brought
to the moorings in Newport Beach at 12:40 p.m., petty officer Dawn Butler said.

The 11 men and five women were being held there until the Immigration and
Naturalization Service arrived, Butler said.

All were believed to be Mexican nationals, Butler said. It did not appear that
any had suffered health problems from the journey, she said.

Newport Beach is about 45 miles southeast of Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 15, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

16 MEXICANS NABBED TRYING TO ENTER U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: NEWPORT BEACH


Sixteen Mexican nationals allegedly trying to sneak into the United States
aboard a fishing boat were turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

A Coast Guard ship had just left Newport Harbor after a search-and-rescue
demonstration about 2:30 p.m. Saturday when it spotted a 35-foot fishing vessel
suspected of carrying drugs or undocumented people, authorities said.

The boat, which is registered at Redondo Beach, has been on a law enforcement
"lookout list" for a month, said Sgt. Ron Peoples of the Orange County sheriff's
Harbor Patrol.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: California & The Region

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 3, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SNOWSTORM KILLS NINE TRYING TO CROSS BORDER

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 342 words

DATELINE: ALPINE


A surprise snowstorm stranded Mexicans trying to cross a mountainous region
along the U.S. border, leaving at least nine dead. A search with dogs and
helicopters rescued more than 130 others Friday, some of whom had wandered for
days dressed in T-shirts and tennis shoes.

Among those saved were two sisters, ages 5 to 7. Their parents had not been
located, authorities said.

More than 140 illegal immigrants died last year crossing from Mexico into San
Diego and Imperial counties in California, said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman
for the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service. About 20 had died this
year before Friday's incident.

Several inches of snow were already on the ground in the Cleveland National
Forest when another storm brought flurries Thursday night. Several groups of
migrants were caught unprepared as they tried to cross the border into San Diego
County, authorities said.

Authorities first heard of their plight when a woman, freezing from the cold,
sought aid from a rancher just after 10 p.m. Thursday. She told him that her
husband and friend were lost in the storm in a region about 40 miles east of San
Diego, Strassberger said.

The rancher called U.S. Border Patrol agents, who found the body of the friend
and later the husband, he said. Two hours later, another group of about seven
immigrants was found, triggering a full-scale rescue operation across a rugged
region 12 miles north of the border.

By midafternoon Friday, U.S. authorities had rescued more than 50 people
suffering from exposure and hypothermia and were trying to find others said by
the migrants to be missing. Seven were confirmed dead there, and the toll was
expected to rise, Strassberger said.

Mexican authorities responded with a search on their side of the border, finding
two people dead and 80 stranded, he said.

Border Patrol supervisor Roy Villareal said survivors told authorities they had
arranged for smugglers to take them across the border, but the smugglers had
abandoned them when the weather got bad.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 13, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAID-BACK LAW LACK OF VIGOR HURT FEDERAL PROSECUTIONS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 422 words


WHEN it comes to federal law enforcement in North California, anecdotes and
statistics suggest the same evaluation: It's been tepid.

The district, particularly the U.S. Attorney's Office, has carried that
reputation for years. In Sunday's Mercury News, Staff Writer Howard Mintz
compiled the numbers for the years 1993 through 1997 that show why.

The Northern California District, essentially a strip along the coast from
Monterey to the Oregon border, produced the fewest prosecutions of the four
California districts. Of the dozen most populous districts nationwide, it was
10th.

Despite Silicon Valley's dynamic, not to say boisterous, economy and San
Francisco's prominence in banking and finance, the district was 62nd of 90
districts nationwide in prosecuting white collar criminals.

Prosecution is the business of the U.S. Attorney's Office. Investigating and
developing cases to refer to prosecutors are the tasks the FBI, the Drug
Enforcement Administration and other federal agencies.

With the exception of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which pursues
illegal immigrants, these agencies since 1993 have been making fewer referrals
for prosecution. Some of the decline is blamed on a suspicion in the agencies
that the U.S. Attorney's Office wouldn't pursue cases referred to it.

The pattern has continued for a long time. Now there is reason to think it might
be changing.

The U.S. Attorney's Office has a new boss, Robert Mueller III. The regional FBI
office has a new agent in charge, Bruce Gebhardt, as does the DEA, Gilbert
Bruce. They've all been here only a short time; they all say things are going to
change.

While the new leaders have vowed to change attitudes, sometimes more people are
needed as well.

One step that would help matters in Silicon Valley would be to increase the
staff of the branch office of the U.S. attorney here. It has eight attorneys to
cover a four-county area -- Santa Clara, San Benito, Santa Cruz and Monterey.
The San Francisco office, covering an area only slight more populous, has 45
attorneys.

We're not calling for the Bay Area to be a national leader in prosecutions in
every category. We'd like to think that at least in some categories --
government corruption, for instance -- there might be fewer prosecutions in the
Bay Area because government here is cleaner than in Miami, for example.

But federal law enforcement is not going to run out of work here any time soon.
New leadership with renewed vigor will be a refreshing change.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: MARGARET SCOTT

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 15, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUPERTINO ADJUSTS TO INFLUENCE OF IMMIGRANTS RECONCILIATION OF OLD, NEW STIRS
EMOTIONAL DEBATE

BYLINE: BEN STOCKING, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1747 words


Residents of Cupertino are feeling the same jumble of sensations as a mother in
a delivery room: exhaustion, exhilaration, pain, anxiety, hope.

They are giving birth to a new community -- one transformed by a dramatic wave
of immigration from Asia.

In many ways, Cupertino is a microcosm of the demographic transformation
occurring across Santa Clara County and the state. As the city struggles to
adjust, culture clashes have come to punctuate its civic conversation.

"Our community is better for the richness we get from different peoples," said
Barbara Rogers, 67, a longtime resident who served three terms as mayor. "But
it's not always easy."

The community has conducted emotional debates about the merits of teaching
Mandarin in public schools, and whether its Fourth of July celebration -- which
featured Chinese dragon dancers -- has taken on too much of a multicultural
feel. It has argued about the virtues and shortcomings of a mall where virtually
every shop is an Asian-owned specialty store. Even its discussion of housing
issues has sometimes taken on an ethnic tinge.

At the core of each discussion lies the same set of questions: Are the newcomers
assimilating quickly enough, or are they remaining a community apart? Are
longtime residents doing enough to help their new neighbors adjust, or are they
making unrealistic demands that immigrants Americanize overnight?

NEW LOOK AND FEEL
Surge of newcomers changes landscape

A city of 51,000, Cupertino is home to many highly educated, affluent high-tech
workers. While whites made up 88 percent of the population in 1980, by 1998,
their numbers had shrunk to 62 percent. Meanwhile, the Asian population surged
from 7 percent to 28 percent.

The newcomers have been drawn by jobs in Silicon Valley and by the excellent
reputation of the Cupertino Union School District, where the Asian or
Asian-American student population jumped from 20 percent in 1985 to 45 percent
today.

Immigrants have arrived from Korea, India and a host of other countries. But the
biggest groups have come from China and Taiwan.

The city is rapidly taking on a new look and feel. Chinese-language signs dot
the landscape, and stores offer everything from galangal ginger to moo-gua
melons. It's easy to find the latest books about Silicon Valley pioneers such as
Andy Grove -- in Mandarin.

As new homes continue to shoot up, the apricot orchards that were for years a
community trademark recede ever deeper into the collective memory of longtime
residents, who sometimes feel they no longer recognize their hometown. Some
lament the passing of a time when they could chat easily with neighbors without
confronting a language barrier bigger than the tallest backyard fence.

"Most of the longtime residents we know are feeling out of place," said
Christine Lafranconi, 48, a white parent and homemaker who has lived in
Cupertino for 21 years. "Cupertino is Asian now."

A recent Mercury News poll of Santa Clara County residents found that 70percent
of whites surveyed think immigrants have strengthened the nation, and only 15
percent think it's bad that the county's Asian population has grown.

But the survey also found that 37 percent of whites would like to see more
restrictions on immigration, and 28 percent think immigration has caused the
quality of life to deteriorate.

For the most part, Cupertino conducts its immigration debates with civility. But
from time to time, emotions erupt.

STRONG RESISTANCE
Class in Mandarin strikes a nerve

Last year, when the school board debated whether to start a two-way
Mandarin/English program at a local elementary school, board member Barry Chang
started receiving hate mail and angry phone calls.

"Go back to where you came from," they told Chang, 46, a native of Taiwan.

Chang and other backers of the voluntary Mandarin program argued that learning
two languages would benefit all students, regardless of their race or ethnicity.

But some longtime residents objected violently to the idea, which the school
board approved on a limited basis last spring.

"What the hell, Mandarin in the schools? This is the United States," said Jan
Black, a white resident who grew up in Austria and has lived in Cupertino for
many years. "If you want your children to learn Mandarin, speak it at home or
send them to special schools."

To Black and others, the proposal seemed like an attempt to impose Chinese
culture on Cupertino -- just like the Chinese-language signs that have cropped
up around town.

Nowhere are they more evident than at Cupertino Village, an Asian shopping mall
where you can buy Chinese produce, hear Taiwanese Muzak, and feel, for a brief
while, as though you have been transported across the Pacific Rim.

By all accounts, the mall looks more prosperous now than it did before new
owners two years ago gave it an Asian theme and recruited new businesses. At
lunch and dinner, it's packed with customers, nearly all of them Asian or
Asian-American.

The new owners are trying hard to consolidate their Taiwanese customer base and
reach out to members of the many other Asian groups in Cupertino. But they would
also like to attract white customers, said Peter Pau, 45, the mall manager and
co-owner.

"People thought we were going to put some kind of barricade at the entrance
saying, 'If you're a white person, don't come in,' " said Pau, a native of
Shanghai, China, who has lived in the Bay Area for 27 years.

In fact, Pau said, the new owners encouraged tenants to put up signs in both
Chinese and English. All have done so.

Still, some longtime residents view Cupertino Village as a symbol of separatism.
Likewise, they complain, the Chinese have established their own PTA, the Asian
American Parent Association, but seem reluctant to join mainstream civic groups.

"I don't see any attempt to become part of the whole," said Lafranconi, whose
street, nearly all white when she moved in, is now about one-third Asian or
Asian-American. "United we stand, divided we fall."

But some organizations that might appear to be separatist are actually intended
to bring people together, said Yuh-Ning Chen, a native of Taipei, Taiwan, and a
founding member of the Asian American Parent Association. The group encourages
newcomers to participate in mainstream PTAs; it strives to serve as a bridge
between longtime residents and newcomers.

Most Chinese, Chen said, are unaccustomed to participating in school affairs.
They need coaxing.

"We treat teachers and principals like high-authority people," Chen said.
"Talking to them face-to-face is very rare."

Given the language and cultural barriers, said school board member Chang, many
recent immigrants find PTA meetings bewildering. The first time Chang went, he
was perplexed by the parliamentary procedure.

"One lady said, 'I move so and so.' I found that puzzling, because she was just
sitting there, not moving anything. Then another lady said, 'I second.' That was
even more puzzling. No one had claimed to be first. I wondered why she was so
humble as to claim to be second."

Not only did Chang eventually master such procedure, he went on to win a seat on
the school board. He did so because he was tired of hearing people complain that
Chinese immigrants were only taking from the community. "We are givers too,"
Chang said.

Yet another debate has arisen over "pink palaces" -- the hulking two-story, pink
stucco houses that are sprouting up across town, dwarfing Cupertino's
traditional ranch-style homes.

Some residents blame the pink palace phenomenon on Taiwanese newcomers. But Bob
Cowan, Cupertino's community development director, said similar homes are being
built in nearby communities without significant immigrant populations.

"I don't see cultural issues here," Cowan said, asserting that the phenomenon
has more to do with wealth than ethnicity.

Sometimes, said Ben Liao, a native of Taiwan who has lived in Cupertino for
seven years, newcomers become scapegoats.

For example, he said, some longtime residents are upset that housing costs have
shot up beyond the reach of their children, who had hoped to settle in the
community. While the same phenomenon has occurred in communities across the Bay
Area, regardless of their ethnic makeup, some longtime Cupertino residents blame
it on newcomers.

The fact that many of the newcomers are professionals makes it harder for some
longtime residents to accept them, Liao said. They don't fit the immigrant
paradigm of pulling themselves up by the bootstraps.

"They think, 'You come here driving a Mercedes. You live in big houses, we live
in small houses. You get all the sunshine, we get all the shadows.' "

In fact, most immigrants in Cupertino don't fit that stereotype, said Liao, a
member of the Cupertino school board.

An organization called the 5Cs -- Citizens of Cupertino Cross-Cultural
Consortium -- has dedicated itself to promoting amity among the city's ethnic
groups. The 5Cs hopes to unite people through community events such as block
parties and yard sales. Its members have held a forum on race relations and
developed a Web site with a bulletin board on diversity issues.

Above all, the group wants to encourage residents to discuss sensitive issues
without attacking one another, as they did during the debate over Mandarin
immersion.

FORGOTTEN FUNDAMENTAL
Assimilation requires gradual adjustment

"I don't think it's productive at all when people start yelling and screaming
and playing the race card," said Zahra Pavlovic, 39, a 5Cs member who immigrated
to the United States from Iran.

As residents continue grappling with immigration, said Cupertino National Bank
Chairman Don Allen, they need to remember something fundamental: Assimilation
doesn't occur overnight.

"Whether we're Irish or Italian or Jewish or whatever, the first generation
tends to cling together," said Allen, 63. "Over time, that tends to change. It
takes a little while, but we'll get there."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
THE CHANGING FACE OF CUPERTINO
Fueled by a wave of immigration from China and Taiwan, the Asian population in
Cupertino has grown dramatically since 1980.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau and Claritas
CHART: WITHOUT A MAJORITY
Sometime this year, the white population of Santa Clara County will fall below
50 percent, leaving no racial majority.
Source: California Department of Finance

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: A MAJORITY OF NONESILICON VALLEY FACES A NEW ETHNIC MIXA MERCURY NEWS
SPECIAL REPORT: SECOND IN A FIVE-PART SERIES

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Charts (2);
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Dennis Chang of Cupertino, a
senior patrol leader of Boy Scout Troop 452, raises the
American flag. All 80 scouts in the troop are Asian-American.
[990415 FR 1A]
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Helen Wu, 55, of Cupertino concentrates during an English class at Quinlan
Community Center. Conflict has risen over whether newcomers assimilate quickly
enough, or at all.
[990415 FR 14A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 24, 1999 Saturday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

GROUP CELEBRATING 25 YEARS OF ACTIVISM FILIPINO ORGANIZATION HELPS IMMIGRANTS,
CHAMPIONS IMPORTANT SOCIAL CAUSES

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 533 words


Twenty-six years ago, a band of Filipino activists got together to set up social
services for the large influx of Filipino immigrants arriving in the Bay Area.

"While we didn't know each other, we soon realized the power of our combined
expertise," said Linda Haraguchi, a founding member. "To make a difference, we
incorporated Filipinos for Affirmative Action (FAA) in three months."

On Saturday, FAA celebrates a quarter-century of community activism. The event
is being observed a little late, members say.

Whether it's 25 or 26 years, however, is not as important as taking stock of
progress made since those tumultuous days in the early 1970s, when there were
community struggles and demonstrations. "It was a time of marathon meetings,
marches, storming city hall and the county supervisors' offices," said
Haraguchi, 52.

One of the defining issues in Filipino activism was the International Hotel in
San Francisco, the center of a bitter fight to preserve housing for older
Filipino men known as "manongs." The eviction -- and subsequent leveling of the
hotel in 1977 -- galvanized many Filipinos into activism.

Lilian Galedo, FAA's executive director since 1982, describes the group's
mission in quieter terms: to provide services to young people, new immigrants
and the rest of the community.

The FAA has a Newcomer Assistance Program to help immigrants with employment and
citizenship, and it has championed Filipino veterans who fought in World War II.

Filipinos constitute one of the largest Asian communities in California. There
are perhaps as many as 1 million in the state. About 80,000 live in Alameda and
Contra Costa counties. Union City has one of the largest concentrations.
Fremont, Hayward, Vallejo, Daly City and Hercules also havesignificant numbers.

"One can trace the migration patterns from Hawaii to San Jose," said Larry
Shinagawa, a sociology professor at Sonoma State University, who has studied
Filipino migration patterns. "After moving to Daly City on the mainland,
Filipinos crossed over to the East Bay, starting in Vallejo and Hercules,
gradually descending to the South Bay, where the housing was at one time
cheaper."

Many of FAA's founding members are still active. Corey Tellez, president and CEO
of Health Net, will be honored at the anniversary banquet. So, too, will Lourdes
Tancino, a lawyer, who will receive an award for her work on behalf of the
Filipino veterans of World War II. Every Friday afternoon, she holds a free
legal clinic for the veterans in her San Francisco office.

FAA has a budget of $400,000 that supports a staff of nine out of the Oakland
office, as well as Union City and San Pablo satellite offices.

"There are hundreds of groups organized along language, region, profession, by
alumni groups and by churches," Galedo said. "The community has its own internal
network and its own safety net. Still there are people emigrating who need help,
and we want to lessen the stress of the transition."

"In its 26 years, FAA has been trying to help Filipinos become more involved in
the rights of Filipinos in the workplace," added Ben Menor, a community worker.
"It's been right on the cutting edge."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
Filipinos for Affirmative Action -- 25 Years of Community Service, Advocacy and
Organizing -- will be held at 8 p.m. today at the Holiday Inn's Top of the Bay
Room, Emeryville. For more information: Chris Cara, (510) 487-8552.

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 30, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SIERRA CLUB MAY REVISIT IMMIGRATION ISSUE

BYLINE: WILLIAM SCHIFFMANN, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A vote by Sierra Club members rejecting a change in how referendums qualify for
the club ballot means that a proposal urging immigration cutbacks to protect the
environment could be back before members soon.

The rejected measure called for an increase in the number of signatures needed
to qualify a referendum from 2 percent to 5 percent of the number of members
voting in the previous year's election.

It lost by a ratio of almost 2-1, with a two-thirds yes vote needed for passage.
The Sierra Club has a current membership of about 575,000 worldwide, with most
in the United States and Canada.

Ric Oberlink, a leader of Sierrans for U.S. Population Stabilization, said
Thursday that members of his ad hoc group felt the proposed increase was
designed to make it harder for them to get their measure on the ballot a second
time.

Oberlink's group put a measure on last year's ballot calling for reducing
immigration along with the birthrate to help protect the environment. He says it
lost only because it was not a simple yes-no vote; instead, members were asked
to choose between two measures.

Oberlink said his group is not advocating that the Sierra Club take a
"leadership role" on the issue but that it "be honest and address the issue."

"Our plan is to likely come back with another referendum," Oberlink said. "We
would like to be able to work with the board and other leaders. It's not
acceptable for the nation's premier environmental group to have no position on
population growth."

Sierra Club President Chuck McGrady said the club historically has been in favor
of controlling population growth.

"We have a program for lowering the world's population," he said. "If we lower
the world's population, we're dealing with cause and effect, limiting the number
of people moving here."

But he said the vote rejecting the immigration referendum was clear.

"Our club members spoke on that issue 12 months ago and told us to remain
neutral on the issue of immigration, and that is the position the board and the
club has taken," he said in a telephone interview from Asheville, N.C.

McGrady said that if the same measure were presented again, he expected the vote
to be the same.

"Assuming many of the same members vote as voted last year, I'd be surprised at
a substantial change," he said.

Oberlink said Sierrans for U.S. Population Stabilization got involved in the
immigration issue in 1996.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 18, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER AGENT REPORTEDLY ADMITTED TO SHOOTING PELLET SHOT AT RAFT MAY HAVE LED TO
IMMIGRANT'S DROWNING

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A Border Patrol agent allegedly admitted firing a pellet gun at a rubber raft
carrying three immigrants across a canal and then threw the weapon into a river,
according to an internal incident report obtained Monday.

The report did not say whether investigators knew the motive for the attack,
which dumped all three immigrants into the All-American Canal early Friday.

"The allegations are serious, and we are doing everything we can to resolve
them," said T.J. Bondurant, an assistant inspector general at the Department of
Justice.

Only two of the immigrants were seen back on shore, but Border Patrol officials
and Imperial County sheriff's deputies found no one when they searched again
Monday, said Rita Vargas, Mexico's consul for the region in southeastern
California.

The "significant incident report" obtained by the Associated Press contained a
brief outline of the alleged attack four miles west of Calexico and notations
that the FBI and others, including the Mexican consulate, were notified. The
agent's name was deleted.

A woman who was caught Friday trying to cross into Imperial County told
authorities that at 3 a.m. she saw an agent fire a pellet gun at the raft, which
flipped when the three passengers shifted. Only two made it to the concrete bank
of the irrigation canal and the third may have drowned, the woman said.

Vargas said the region's Border Patrol sector chief, Tom Wacker, told her on
Friday that the agent had admitted firing the pellet gun at the raft.

"He has committed to getting to the bottom of this situation," the consul said
of the sector chief.

Both the FBI and the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of
Justice, which is an internal affairs division for the Border Patrol, were
investigating.

The agent has been placed on administrative leave, federal officials said.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's Office would not comment, declining even
to confirm whether an investigation was in progress.

Bondurant said his office has become increasingly worried about its ability to
adequately investigate the Immigration and Naturalization Service because it has
grown so fast in recent years.

The number of Border Patrol agents nationwide has risen to about 9,000 from
4,000 since 1993, while the inspector general's staff has remained the same, he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 21, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAW GIVES PROTECTION FROM DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 121 words


Reversing decades-old Cold War policy, the federal government announced Thursday
that hundreds of thousands of immigrants who fled repression from right-wing
governments now will be eligible for many of the same protections from
deportation that had been reserved for immigrants from left-wing or communist
countries.

The rule mainly affects about 240,000 immigrants from El Salvador and Guatemala,
who fled the repressive governments and civil wars in those countries in the
1980s and have been living in the United States in legal limbo ever since. Under
the new rule, which takes effect June 21, their applications for legal residency
will be streamlined, and they cannot be deported while that process is under
way.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 26, 1999 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LOFGREN BILL SEEKS TO EASE RELIGIOUS-WORKER SHORTAGE FOREIGNERS WOULD BE
ELIGIBLE FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCY

BYLINE: MARY OTTO, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


For Sister Superior Marie Madeleine Iskandar, who immigrated to the United
States 20 years ago from Lebanon, the issue is plain:

"We need more sisters."

She and five other Antonine sisters are stretched to the limits, running an
adult day care center in North Jackson, Ohio, nurturing their Maronite Eastern
Rite Catholic faith and customs, preparing liturgies and teaching Arabic within
the area's Lebanese community.

The answer, as she sees it, is to bring more sisters over from Lebanon to serve
these unique needs. That, says Sister Marie Madeleine, is why she supports a
bill known as the "Mother Teresa Religious Worker Act" that has begun wending
its way through Congress.

Extending visa program

Named for the late nun of Calcutta and unveiled Tuesday by Rep. Zoe Lofgren,
D-San Jose, the bill would permanently extend a religious-worker visa program
that allows churches, synagogues and mosques to sponsor foreigners to come to
America and do charitable work in religious communities and for non-profit
organizations.

Under the law, up to 5,000 foreign nuns, monks, missionaries and other such
religious workers are allowed to come to this country each year. They would
become eligible to apply for permanent residency.

"Of all the problems America has," said Lofgren, "having too many monks and nuns
is not among them."

The bill would amend the 1990 Immigration and Nationality Act to make permanent
the special immigrant religious-worker program, which is set to expire Oct. 1,
2000. Currently, the program must be renewed every three years.

"This would remove the need to renew it," Lofgren said. "We're trying to give it
a head start."

At a Washington news conference, Lofgren spoke of four Catholic nuns from San
Jose, former Mexican nationals who minister to the needs of the Latino
community. The sisters, members of the Eucharistic Missionaries of the Most Holy
Trinity, organize youth programs that reach hundreds of teenagers, counsel
prisoners and immigrants, serve the sick and poor, and provide bilingual
programs.

Sister Superior Gisela Enriquez and Sisters Maria del Consuelo Elena Platas,
Maria del Rosario Garcia and Maria Concepcion Silva are now all permanent U.S.
residents. All came here under the religious-workers program.

When the program was up for renewal in 1997, Rep. Lamar Smith, a Texas
Republican who chairs the House Immigration Subcommittee, proposed tightening
restrictions on the eligibility of some of the religious workers. He expressed
concern that the law could be abused by people bent upon fraud.

Tuesday, Lamar's press officer, Allen Kay, said the Congress member would be
watching the new bill. "There's plenty of time to evaluate the program and
decide what to do with it next," Kay said.

Positive outlook

Lofgren, a member of the immigration panel, acknowledged that "fraud is a
legitimate issue." But she said rigorous enforcement should be used to weed out
scam artists masquerading as religious workers to gain permanent residence. She
chooses to dwell on the benefits of the program.

"These immigrants do a great deal of good in our communities and support those
most in need," Lofgren said.

In Washington, other religious leaders were on hand Tuesday to praise the bill,
including Rabbi Abba Cohen, of Agudath Israel America, a national Orthodox
Jewish organization. He said the program was invaluable in its efforts to
recruit teachers to meet the needs of Russian Jewish children who had come to
the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Ken McLaughlin contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [no credit]
Lofgren
[990526 FR 12A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 31, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW REGULATION REMOVES BARRIER TO HEALTH INSURANCE FOR KIDS IN LOW-INCOME
FAMILIES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 322 words


A major barrier to providing health insurance for the children of low-income
Californians disappeared last week.

Vice President Al Gore announced a new regulation stating plainly that enrolling
youngsters in the Children's Health Insurance Program won't affect families'
immigration status.

Healthy Families is the name for California's version of that insurance program.
It was launched with great fanfare last July, but has been hobbled by refusal of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to stipulate definitely, in writing,
that participation would not constitute a "public charge."

People at every level of the program, from community volunteers up to top state
officials, have been concerned that many immigrant families did not sign up
because they couldn't be certain they wouldn't endanger their residence status.
While 75 percent of eligible children in California are Hispanic, only 48
percent of enrollees are Hispanic. Pleas from state health officials, the
Legislature and both past and present governors apparently fell on deaf ears.

Now, that worry is gone.

Gore's announcement also covered many other services critical to children:
Medi-Cal, immunizations, food stamps, school lunches, child care services. While
many families will benefit, Hispanic families are likely to benefit the most, as
studies indicate they are especially prone to lack of health insurance and to
running out of food.

There are many other ways in which the Healthy Families program, which offers a
package of services comparable to state employees' benefits (doctor visits,
hospital stays, prescription drugs and dental and vision care) can be improved.
We will explore them in future editorials.

But thanks to Gore's announcement, outreach efforts to the Hispanic community
can now state with certainty that legal immigrants can sign up for this
important benefit without worrying that they will someday regret it.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Healthy Family program telephone number is 1-800-880-5305.POINTS OF
INTEREST
EDITORIALS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 12, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS SHY OF CENSUS CALIFORNIA STANDS TO GAIN FINANCIALLY FROM ACCURATE
COUNT

BYLINE: MAUREEN FAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1131 words


As census workers launch an all-out effort encouraging hard-to-reach residents
to stand up and be counted next year, it appears thousands of immigrants may
reject calls to participate largely because they fear a lack of confidentiality.

A memo issued by the Department of Justice last week underscored the federal law
forbidding the use of Census Bureau information by other government agencies,
including the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But many immigrants -- legal and illegal -- remain unconvinced.

"For people who just came from a totalitarian country, the government may tell
you they keep everything confidential, but these people don't believe it," said
Tuan Ngo, a U.S. citizen and longtime San Jose resident who owns Thi Truong Tu
Do, a free Vietnamese magazine. "My wife's parents just don't want to do it."

Ken Kamei, deputy director of Asian Americans for Community Involvement, an
immigrant services group in San Jose, agrees.

"We're running into it already. You talk to someone about the census, and their
eyes glaze over. They're very courteous, but they're wondering, 'Why would they
do that?' You can imagine how you'd have to establish that trust with all those
under-represented groups. It's a monumental task."

While concerns about confidentiality aren't drastically different from when the
census was last taken nine years ago, the stakes are much higher this time.
California had the largest undercount of any state during the 1990 census, an
undertaking that is believed to have missed 8.4 million people nationwide --
mostly minorities and the poor -- and counted more than 4 million people twice.

Funding guided by data

Aggregate census data is used to distribute about $180 billion in federal aid
for a variety of purposes, including bilingual voting materials, reviewing of
state and local redistricting boundaries, monitoring access to home mortgage
loans and to credit for minorities, and evaluating health risks unique to
certain minority groups.

"The historically undercounted of course are always the immigrant communities
because they are the hardest to reach and are often living in what are not
considered traditional households," Kamei said.

"They're harder to count, they're harder to reach and they may be really
isolated from traditional methods of communication."

Because of this, Census officials are for the first time spending millions on a
paid advertising campaign that will specifically target various ethnic groups.
"The last time, they used pro bono ads that aired at two in the morning," said
Census Bureau spokesman Mark Tolbert.

The bureau has also hooked up with local governments, private organizations and
scores of grass-roots groups to help with community outreach. Santa Clara
County's Complete Count Committee meets for the first time in August.

"We've also made great strides since 1990 with scanners and other equipment to
help us process the information a lot faster . . . and to make sure we don't get
double counts from multiple addresses for the same household," Tolbert said.

While the census questionnaire itself will be printed only in Spanish, Chinese,
Vietnamese, Korean, Tagalog and English, a companion guide that explains the
questions will come in more than 30 languages. Still, persuadingforeign-born
residents remains a tough assignment. In Santa Clara County 1 in 3 residents is
foreign-born, compared with 1 in 10 nationwide.

Privacy concerns remain

Even last week's federal clarification is not an absolute guarantee. Immigrant
advocates praised it as a step in the right direction but said they remained
concerned about whether future administrations would read the statutes
differently.

At issue was a conflict between Census and INS rules. Advocates said the
loophole could have allowed the immigration service to obtain the Census list of
non-citizens, compare that with their own list of legal residents, and easily
find names and addresses for undocumented workers.

Census officials strongly denied that possibility, and INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner gave written assurances last month that the agency would not seek nor
accept any census information.

Previous misuse of data

But history shows the Census Bureau may have bent its rules a few times. There
is continuing controversy over President Roosevelt's 1941 demand for names and
addresses of American-born and foreign-born Japanese by locality to round them
up in internment camps.

Census officials said names and addresses were never released, but a
congressional report from the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of
Civilians suggests they pointed to the various city blocks where Japanese
residents were concentrated, a move that critics say violates the spirit of
confidentiality.

After World War I, the Census director gave citizenship information to
Department of Justice officials in connection with some deportation cases in
Toledo, Ohio.

" 'The census is confidential'; that's right up there with 'the check is in the
mail,' and 'no new taxes,' " said Colorado lawyer David Kopel, an associate
policy analyst with the Cato Institute. "Immigrant advocates are absolutely
right to distrust the federal government. Whatever assurances this government
gave is just this administration." Kopel is based at the Independence Institute,
a conservative think tank which supports restrictions on immigration.

Census confidentiality regulations were overhauled in 1954, and there have since
been no leaks or breaches.

"The INS cannot override the laws that govern the census. They're not going to
get it. The groups that are saying that are misinformed," said Anthony Greno, a
Census Bureau spokesman based in Southern California.

Getting out the message

Immigration lawyer Richard Hobbs, a member of the Santa Clara County Complete
Count Committee, said it was important to use as many non-government people as
possible to help get out the message. "It's very, very important that all
undocumented immigrants participate in the census because it provides . . .
federal funds, state funds, funds that affect everyone in our community. We need
to find non-governmental vehicles to reach that population," Hobbs said.

"It's clear that people in the community don't buy it when the government talks
about confidentiality. We understand that," said Glenn Magpantay, a lawyer with
the Asian American Legal Education and Defense Fund in New York.

"But we have to educate them one by one. If they don't participate, our
communities lose out on their fair share of state and federal benefits and
political representation," Magpantay said.

"If we don't participate, We don't exist. And if we don't exist, our kids don't
need health care or education or protection."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 15, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRESERVING ANGEL ISLAND STATION IMMIGRATION STOP AN ENDANGERED SITE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: ANGEL ISLAND


Li Keng Wong remembers the bars on the windows and the locked doors that closed
behind her when she first arrived at Angel Island.

"I was 7 at the time, and even at that young age, I asked why we were being
locked up," Wong said. "I asked my mother, 'Mommy, why are we in jail?' "

Wong, 73, was one of thousands of emigrants from southern China who were
detained at the Angel Island Immigration Station between 1910 and 1940.

The National Trust for Historic Preservation on Monday named the station to its
1999 list of 11 most endangered places, supporting the effort to restore the
station for future visitors -- and perhaps shed light on Wong's childhood
question. Among the other sites added to the list were: the San Diego arts and
warehouse district, and Lancaster County, Penn., home to many Amish farmers.

"We would like Angel Island to be seen with the same appreciation as Ellis
Island," said Felecia Lowe, president of the Angel Island Immigration Station
Foundation, which has been working for 25 years to preserve and restore the
station.

Recognition from the Trust for Historic Preservation will support the campaign
to turn the Angel Island station into a West Coast version of the immigration
museum on New York's Ellis Island, said Lowe, a San Francisco filmmaker whose
father was detained at the station.

Angel Island has not received the same attention as Ellis Island because "it's a
difficult story to tell," Lowe said. "It's not part of the dominant mythology."

About a million immigrants were processed at Angel Island while it was in
operation. The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 barred Chinese laborers from
entering the United States until it was repealed in 1943, so Chinese immigrants
were routinely detained and interrogated on the island in San Francisco Bay.

About 175,000 Chinese immigrants were held at the station for anywhere from a
few days to two months. During World War II, the station was used as a prisoner
of war camp.

On Monday, Nancy Fung made her first trip back to Angel Island since being held
there for a week in 1939 with her mother.

"After all these years I still remember," she said. She would like to see the
station turned into a museum so her grandchildren and the younger generation
will understand.

"Sometimes if you just tell people something they won't believe it," Fung said.
"They won't believe there is prejudice until they see something like this."

The station is now part of Angel Island State Park, and the barracks isopen to
visitors. Only minimal repairs have been made since the military closed the
station in 1947. The station hospital is dilapidated, with a cracking foundation
and crumbling walls. It could take $10 million just to repair the buildings,
park Superintendent Nicholas Franco said.

In September, Congress adopted legislation by Sen. Daniel Akaka, D-Hawaii, to
spend $100,000 on a feasibility study to restore the station and turn it into a
museum. The station was designated a national landmark in 1997.

Plans for the station include rebuilding the original pier, restoring the
hospital and rebuilding the administration building, which was destroyed by fire
in 1940 and was where interrogations took place. The idea is allow visitors to
experience of what it was like for immigrants going through the station.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map;
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Angel Island
PHOTO: MICHAEL MALONEY -- SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE
The barracks of the Angel Island Immigration Station was where immigrants waited
to be processed to enter the United States. The station, located in San
Francisco Bay, was named one of America's 11 most endangered historic sites.
[990615 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 25, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER NEWS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 269 words

* With Americans increasingly turning to the Internet for medical information,
federal officials announced stepped-up efforts Thursday to counter fraudulent
online claims that promise to cure ailments from arthritis to AIDS. The Federal
Trade Commission said it was aiming to "put the quacks out of business" with
tougher enforcement by federal and state authorities and a new
consumer-education campaign.

* One in 10 children in the United States lives in a family of "mixed
immigration status" in which at least one parent is a foreign national and one
child is a U.S. citizen, according to a new study by the Urban Institute, a
Washington-based think tank. The large number of these "mixed-status families,"
reflects high immigration levels in recent years, the U.S. rule of birthright
citizenship and the tendency of immigrants to have more children than the
native-born.

* The Supreme Court turned aside a constitutional challenge Thursday to a
3-year-old law designed to keep sexually explicit magazines out of federal
prisons, but offered no comment.

* Hillary Rodham Clinton is planning an extensive get-acquainted tour in New
York state next month that will focus heavily on wooing the upstate voters who
may be most skeptical of her outsider campaign for the Senate.

* Texas Gov. George W. Bush has made significant inroads among women and Latino
voters against Vice President Gore and threatens to neutralize the Democratic
Party's traditional advantage on such key issues as education and protecting the
middle class, according to the bipartisan Battleground 2000 poll released
Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Clinton
[990625 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 25, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

G. JACOBSON, HELPED JEWS FLEE E. EUROPE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 187 words


Gaynor Jacobson, a former world director of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society,
who helped thousands of Jews leave Eastern Europe for Israel and other countries
in the West after World War II, died on June 6 at a hospital in Sun City West,
Ariz.

He was 87 and lived in Sun City West and also in New York City.

As a young man, Mr. Jacobson worked for numerous Jewish organizations in
Rochester, N.Y., before joining the American Joint Distribution Committee in
1944 as a country director in Italy, Greece and Czechoslovakia.

Over the next six years, he used his diplomatic skills to persuade various
governments to take in survivors of the Holocaust. He was especially active in
helping hundreds of thousands of refugees move from Poland, Romania and the
Soviet Union through Czechoslovakia to Israel and the West.

Mr. Jacobson was arrested and jailed for two weeks in 1949 in Hungary for
helping Jews leave the country. His work opening borders was detailed in the
book "The Secret Alliance: The Extraordinary Story of the Rescue of the Jews
Since World War II," by Tad Szulc (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1992).

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: DEATHS ELSEWHERE

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 29, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITIZEN, NON-CITIZEN MIX IN FAMILIES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Nearly half of the children in Los Angeles County live in a family in which at
least one parent is not a U.S. citizen, a number that is nearly five times the
national average, according to a new study.

The report by the Washington, D.C.-based Urban Institute also found that about
27 percent of the children living in New York City are living in mixed-status
families -- or families with at least one parent who is not a U.S. citizen and
at least one child who is a citizen.

The findings, based on 1998 census data, indicate that lawmakers shouldn't
automatically classify families as being made up of either all citizens or
non-citizens. Families often include a combination of legal immigrants,
undocumented immigrants and naturalized citizens, the study said.

Nationwide, nearly one in 10 U.S. children lives in a mixed-status family and 75
percent of children in immigrant families are U.S. citizens, the non-partisan
public policy research organization reported.

The fast growth in the number of families with multiple citizenship status makes
it difficult for legislation to target non-citizens without inadvertently
affecting children with citizenship, the study's authors said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 29, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

IMMIGRANTS FUEL RANKS OF UNINSURED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1196 words


THE commentary "Create a tax credit for the uninsured" by Dick Armey and Pete
Stark (Opinion, June 24) declares that "the ranks of the uninsured are growing
by 100,000 a month." Strangely, this self-declared congressional "odd couple"
haven't noticed a curious coincidence -- the United States is adding about
100,000 immigrants each month.

Can a case be made that immigration accounts for much of the increase in the
numbers of uninsured? A 1997 Rand report which looked at the impact of
immigration on California noted "'the large scale of these flows and the
concentration of low-income, low-taxpaying immigrants making heavy use of public
services is straining state and local governments." It went on to say,
"Immigration has always been a mix of benefits and costs; for California, more
than for any other state, the balance is shifting to the cost side."

While it is laudable for Armey and Stark to propose a tax credit to solvethe
problem of the uninsured, they should be more forthright and state that their
tax credit is in fact an immigration tax -- a transfer payment from Americans to
immigrants.

Armey and Stark declare of the growing numbers of uninsured, "These problems cry
out for remedy. And happily, a bipartisan remedy is available."

The problem does indeed cry out for a solution, but subsidizing immigration is
not it. Unfortunately, there is no bipartisan solution in sight in Congress to
face up to the problem of massive immigration.

Tim Aaronson
El Cerrito
Ethnicity and loyalty

ONE of the most shameful incidents in American history was the imprisonment of
Japanese-Americans during World War II. The wrong-headed idea that ethnic
background determines loyalty was thoroughly refuted by their war record. To use
the same simplistic thinking today in regard to our Asian-American citizens is
shameful and inexcusable ("False spying charges have happened before," Page 1A,
June 23).

The most notorious spies of our time, Alger Hiss and Richard Ames, were not
motivated by ethnicity but by ideology or simple greed.

I have worked in research and development for 40 years. I know that we owe much
of our technological advances, in large part, to first-generation immigrants.
They have come to America to obtain freedom and to be judged as individuals
according to their actions. Americans can not, must not, give them less.

David R. Peterson
Mountain View
Board deserves credit

IF the Mercury News has any better reasons for its support of the joint
resignation of the United Way Board members (Opinion, June 22), I think you owe
it to your readers to tell us what they are.

I have followed the controversy in your pages, and here's what I've read:

* When it became clear that the United Way CEO had failed to acknowledge the
shortfall in contributions and adjust the budget, the board accepted her
resignation.

* The board immediately accepted millions of dollars in bail-out contributions.

* The board recruited and hired a new CEO, Les White, who almost everyone
believes is the best person possible for the job.

To this outsider, the board looks fairly credible and responsive. Is it really a
good idea to replace these community-minded volunteers with others who will
probably have no experience with this type of organization?

I can understand why board members have agreed to resign. They have, after all,
received darned little "thanks" for their efforts.

What I don't understand is why the Mercury News agreed with the task force that
they should resign. "Credibility" is a pretty frail excuse. Credibility to whom?
I think most readers would give credit to the board for taking the necessary
steps to clean up the mess.

Tim Hegstrom
Campbell
Uniform speeds are safer

TEXAS Gov. George W. Bush has signed legislation that makes uniform speed limits
in Texas effective Sept. 1, 1999. Currently, cars, light pick-up trucks, and
other vehicles except for school buses can travel at speeds up to 70 mph in the
daytime, and 65 at night. However, heavy trucks are limited to 60 mph in the
daytime, and 55 mph at night. This disparity will end on Sept. 1

The U.S. Department of Transportation reported in 1994 that the
crash-involvement rate is almost six times greater for vehicles traveling 10 mph
below or above the average speed limit. Additional studies show the increased
probability of being involved in an accident as the deviation from the mean
speed increases. Legislation to remove differential speed limits on California
highways would provide safe, uniform speed limits for all vehicles.

It is my observations that differential speed limits between automobiles and
heavy trucks are a cause of road rage, lane change/rear-end accidents, anddriver
fatigue. It makes no safety sense for California to remain a state with
differential speed limits for different vehicles, and that is why I am urging
all lawmakers to question the wisdom of this vehicle law for trucks.

Erik Royce
Newark
Unwise relocation

SAN Jose Unified School District wants to move Broadway Continuation High School
onto the baseball field of John Muir Middle School (Page 1B, June 28). I was
feeling pretty lucky that our middle school is the district's science magnet.
But I have zero confidence in the school board's recommendation.

Many of the students at Broadway have been kicked out of the regular San Jose
Unified high schools because of drug and weapon offenses, severe discipline
issues and chronic truancy. Mixing high-risk high school kids with
impressionable 6th, 7th and 8th graders is inappropriate. Middle school kids are
well known for their impressionable nature.

The Broadway Relocation Committee's outline explains why it won't put Broadway
students near their high school peers. "Other high schools were considered, but
the student population would be likely to mix during arrival and dismissal,
creating an opportunity for volatile and dangerous gang interactions," the
outline stated.

I guess gang interaction with pre-teens doesn't bother the relocation committee.
The plan includes building a fence and planting shrubs between the two schools
to keep the populations separate. Maybe the planning committee forgot that there
is a sidewalk on Branham Lane?

Jenefer Curtis
San Jose
Nun's work is inspiring

I read with delight the article about the Fremont nun working for affordable
housing (Page 1B, Alameda County edition, June 15). Sister Elaine Marie Sanchez
is truly an inspiring figure and her entire order needs to be commended for
their determination to serve low-income families, a demographic that seems to
lack support in most quarters.

A quote from Sister Sanchez about her struggle was especially striking: "It
wasn't uncommon for me to get letters saying that the Sisters did not belong in
City Hall, we belonged in the chapel praying." Isn't that like saying that
religion has little to say about real life, that we should confine God to the
safety of four walls where we can worship on our own terms and without
inconvenience?

Let's hope that the nuns have inspired a new, compassionate way of thinking,
living and relating in our community.

Vinaye Misra
Fremont

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 1999

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 7/1/99, pg. 7B) A letter to the
editor on the June 29 Opinion page said Richard Ames was a notorious U.S. spy.
The person the writer was referring to is actually Aldrich Ames.

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 1, 1999 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 MEDIATION ALLOWED LAWSUIT TO BLOCK DELIBERATIONS ON INITIATIVE
REJECTED

BYLINE: BOB EGELKO, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The state Supreme Court rebuffed a conservative group's request Wednesday to
stop Gov. Gray Davis from taking the dispute over Proposition 187, the
illegal-immigration initiative, to a federal court mediator.

None of the justices voted to hold a hearing on a suit filed June 1 by the
Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association. The organization, named for the sponsor of
the Proposition 13 tax-cutting initiative of 1978, said it was neutral on
Proposition 187 but opposed secret mediation of the legality of ballot measures.

Proposition 187, passed in November 1994, would exclude illegal immigrants from
public schools, eliminate social services and non-emergency health care for
which they remain eligible, and require state and local officials and service
providers to report suspected illegal immigrants to federal authorities.

A federal judge has ruled that the measure violates the federal government's
exclusive authority to regulate immigration.

Davis, who took office when Gov. Pete Wilson's appeal was pending, opposed
Proposition 187. But rather than dropping the appeal or pursuing it fully, he
has asked a mediator in the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to supervise
private talks on possible settlement of disputed issues.

Only the civil rights groups that sued to overturn Proposition 187 were invited
to the mediation. Davis promised to consult with sponsors of the initiative, who
were not a party to the case, but their lawyers said there was nothing to talk
about.

The Jarvis group asked the state's high court to order Davis to withdraw from
mediation.

"Resolution of a dispute over the constitutionality of an initiative by secret
mediation violates the right of the people to have litigation decided in
public," Lawrence J. Straw, lawyer for the group, said in court papers.

He also said an agreement not to enforce some or all of Proposition 187 would
violate the governor's duty to see that the laws are enforced, and a state
constitutional provision requiring the state to enforce a law until it is ruled
unconstitutional by an appellate court.

State lawyers denied that the fate of the initiative would be decided in secret,
noting that the mediation was authorized by the federal court and its results
would be made public.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Davis
[990701 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 12, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT RULING LIMITS IMMIGRANTS' JAIL TIME

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 111 words


A federal court panel in Seattle has ruled that immigrants awaiting deportation
because of criminal records cannot be jailed indefinitely -- a decision that
lawyers call an important step toward overturning a controversial government
practice.

The five-judge panel found unanimously that the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service policy violated Fifth Amendment guarantees shielding
people from unlawful deprivation of their liberty.

Although the judges' ruling is binding only in western Washington, attorneys
representing detainees say the decision could carry weight in other states where
many immigrants are challenging indefinite incarceration.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 14, 1999 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

FILM, DISCUSSION ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: From Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: FREMONT


What is America's track record on opening its arms to immigrants?

The Alameda County Library Adult Literacy Program explores this subject by
offering a film and discussion session from noon to 2:30 p.m. Tuesday at the
Fremont Main Library, 2400 Stevenson Blvd. Felicia Lowe, film director and
producer of "Carved in Silence," and library staff will lead the group talk.
Call (510) 745-1480.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Community News in Brief

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 19, 1999 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS WAIVER REUNITES FAMILY SEPARATION LASTED FOR SEVEN MONTHS

BYLINE: LISA M. KRIEGER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 491 words


After enduring a traumatic ban from U.S. entry and a seven-month separation from
their family, Lili Martinez and her daughter are home. At the San Jose airport
Sunday afternoon, they walked into the arms of their family.

The ordeal began last December when Martinez, a Peruvian national married to an
American citizen, rushed to her father's bedside in Lima after he suffered a
heart attack. She took their daughter Kassandra, born in San Jose, with her.

Once there, she became tangled in a bureaucratic snare that banned her re-entry
into the United States for 10 years because she had previously overstayed a
tourist visa. The Immigration and Naturalization Service granted a surprise
humanitarian waiver last week, allowing her re-entry.

"It is so good to be here," said Martinez, holding a bouquet of long-stemmed red
roses and surrounded by a throng of family members who anxiously awaited her
return. "We are so tired."

Under 1996 immigration laws that expanded groups for deportation, the
27-year-old woman and her husband, Ralph Martinez, operations director of the
Silicon Valley Capital Club and Capital Club Athletics, learned that family
separation and financial hardship are not considered grounds for a waiver.

Ralph flew to Peru earlier this month to share their baby's first birthday --
July 6 -- and contemplated finding a new home and job.

With assistance of Rep. Zoe Lofgren, a San Jose Democrat who had opposed the
INS' get-tough measures, Lili Martinez last Tuesday was granted permission to
re-enter the country.

Lofgren contends the case shows the destructive effects the law has on divided
families, many of whom are legal entrants with no criminal records but who have
simply misunderstood the new process.

Supporters of the law say the strict penalties are necessary deterrents to
people who overstay visas.

Martinez's saga began when she asked the INS for written permission to leave the
country for the medical emergency. Told the process usually takes about two
weeks, she decided to fly back immediately, fearing her father might not
survive.

But leaving the country subjected her to a provision of the Immigration Reform
and Immigrant Responsibility Act that states people who live here illegally for
a year or more are barred from re-entering the country for a decade.

Her father survived, but her husband, who lives in the family home in Campbell,
suffers from the early stages of multiple sclerosis.

It was a letter written by Ralph Martinez's doctor, Arthur Douville Jr. in Los
Gatos, that helped persuade authorities to grant his wife a compassionate
medical waiver.

Martinez returned with his wife and daughter Sunday afternoon, and watched
Kassandra take her first wobbly steps on American soil in the airport terminal,
thrilling paternal grandparents.

"The baby has changed so much, she's growing up," said grandmother Virginia
Martinez of Campbell. "It's been so long."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ANNA MARIE DOS REMEDIOS -- MERCURY NEWS
Grandparents Virginia Martinez, left, and Ray Martinez, center, welcome
1-year-old Kassandra back to San Jose after she spent seven months in Peru with
her mother, Lili, right.
[990719 LO 2B SC]
PHOTO: ANNA MARIE DOS REMEDIOS -- MERCURY NEWS
Ralph Martinez, his wife, Lili, and their daughter, Kassandra, 1, return to the
United States on Sunday at San Jose International Airport.
[990719 LO 2B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 24, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MARSHALL LEONG, 71, CREATED FLOWER EMPIRE LEARNED TO GROW CROPS WHILE FINISHING
SCHOOL

BYLINE: ELISE BANDUCCI, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 703 words


Marshall Mok Leong, a pioneer in Silicon Valley's long but fading tradition of
Chinese flower growers, died July 7 of leukemia. He was 71.

Mr. Leong, who immigrated to the United States in 1939 at age 11, created a
small empire out of what began as five acres of farmland where he grew
chrysanthemums, once the single biggest crop in Santa Clara County.

Like many of his contemporaries, Mr. Leong got out of the flower business in the
1980s, when competition from abroad and the lure of big money for their prime
real estate led many growers to sell their land and retire.

"Our front yard . . . is now Highway 85," said Janet Leong Malan, 47, who along
with her sister and brothers grew up working in the family flower business.

The tale of how her father made his way from Southern China to the Valley of
Heart's Delight is a familiar one among Chinese-Americans who immigrated during
the early 1900s.

Venturing out

Mr. Leong, Malan said, was chosen among his siblings as the child most capable
of going out in the world to improve the family's prospects for success. He
traveled with a "paper father," someone who would claim him as a dependent and
secure a passport for him. Mr. Leong originally settled in San Francisco.

"There, I went to school in Chinatown and lived in a 9-by-12 room with nine
other boys . . .," Mr. Leong told the Cupertino Courier several years ago. "We
were all immigrants, and an old lady was there to take care of us."

Mr. Leong's relatives, like many Chinese immigrants, became farm laborers, and
Mr. Leong learned to grow vegetables while completing high school. All the
while, he sent money home to his family in China.

After World War II, Mr. Leong returned to China and got married. He came back to
the United States with his new bride, Kit Fong, in 1949.

"When I returned, the market was very hard," Mr. Leong said in the Courier, "and
the only job I could get was at a cut-flower farm in the hills of San Mateo."

In 1952, Mr. Leong, like other Chinese flower farmers, began growing asters on
Stanford property and in Los Altos Hills and Cupertino, creating a dreamy
expanse of blooming meadows.

In 1957, he purchased five acres in Cupertino, back when the area was surrounded
by orchards.

After a season of growing asters, he switched to chrysanthemums. With that, Mr.
Leong, along with a few contemporaries, led two generations of countrymen to
dominate the chrysanthemum industry in the valley.

Mr. Leong's business, on land that cost him $20,000, prospered, allowing him to
invest in real estate developments throughout the Bay Area.

But the work was backbreaking, from sunup to sundown. When not in school or
studying, the children helped as well.

"As the flowers grow, you want one large blossom. The nature of chrysanthemums
is that they have suckers, and you have to take all the suckers off by hand so
you have just one bloom," said Malan, explaining the tedious work she and her
siblings did from age 10 on.

Though they were devoted to their farm and reveled in the beautiful expanse that
defined their workday, Malan's parents never intended for their children to take
over the family business.

"It's a very hard life ... (they) wanted us to have a college education and have
other professions," she said.

Fulfilling their dream

The Leongs got their wish. All four of their children went to college. Janet is
an artist. A son, Robert, who works in real estate, developed part of the farm
into housing in 1986. He named one of the streets in the development Leong
Court, after his father.

After Mr. Leong left flower-growing, he remained devoted to the Chinese
immigrant population in the valley. He was an active member and past president
of The Hee Shen Benevolent Association, formed in 1895 by a group of Chinese
immigrants to help other immigrants from the region of Doumen in China.

In a 1995 speech at the association's 100th anniversary celebration, Mr. Leong
reaffirmed the group's commitment to a new generation of immigrants.

"He just had a great sense of community," Malan said. "Because he had the
opportunity to come to the United States, he could really envision others coming
and being prosperous, too."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Marshall Mok Leong
* Born: Jan. 27, 1928, in China
* Died: July 7, 1999, at a Mountain View hospital
* Survived by: Wife Kit Fong Leong of Cupertino; children Linda Leong of
Sunnyvale and Robert Leong, Vince Leong and Janet Leong Malan, all of Cupertino;
and six grandchildren
* Services: Already held.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Marshall Leong
[990724 LO 6B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 1, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TAIWAN TIES IMMIGRANTS TRANSFORM FREMONT RAPID INFLUX IS CHANGING BEDROOM
COMMUNITY TO BUSINESS HUB

BYLINE: DENNIS AKIZUKI, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1638 words


Fremont's jampacked Mission Square Shopping Center is only a year and a half
old, yet Chinese-American high-tech executives and employees already know it by
a more revealing name: Little Taipei.

The five-acre shopping center at Mission and Warm Springs boulevards is the most
visible symbol yet of how Taiwanese and Chinese-American investment is helping
transform Fremont from drowsy suburb to local magnet for new immigrants and
high-tech business.

This infusion of money has, in turn, helped fuel Fremont's unprecedented
economic growth and contributed to a significant boost in the city's Chinese
population:

* Dozens of new Taiwanese firms now dot southern Fremont's burgeoning industrial
sector. A Taiwanese government survey in 1995 showed 69 Taiwanese companies
operating in Fremont, second in the Bay Area only to San Jose, which has nearly
four times Fremont's population.

* A computer analysis of Immigration and Naturalization Service data shows
Fremont has been one of the four most popular destinations statewide for
Taiwanese immigrating from 1992 to 1996, ranking behind only San Jose, Arcadia
and Hacienda Heights in Southern California. More than 1,100 Taiwanese came to
Fremont during those years. San Jose gained nearly 2,800. The Taiwanese influx
has perhaps as much as tripled Fremont's Chinese population since 1990.

These and a variety of other indicators -- as well as the observations of those
familiar with the Asian high-tech community -- bolster the notion that Fremont
is evolving into a new hub of Taiwanese investment and immigration.

All this has occurred even though the city has made little effort to attract
investment from Asia.

"(Fremont) is the fastest growing area for Chinese-American people, especially
for people running businesses in the computer area," said Mark Shir, a
Taiwan-born Fremont high-tech business owner who is also president of a
Chinese-American computer association.

Although the Taiwanese government hasn't updated its list of businesses here,
Shir estimates there are as many as 100 high-tech firms in Fremont with
Taiwanese connections. These range from branches of Taiwanese companies such as
Umax Technologies and Synnex to American firms such as Supercom.

Rapid change

The changes to Fremont -- from shopping centers such as Little Taipei
andNorthgate in the northern part of the city to multimillion-dollar mansions in
the hills -- have come so quickly that civic leaders and residents are only just
beginning to comprehend the full economic and social fallout.

"I don't think the general community realizes the depth and level of investment
by Taiwanese companies and individuals in Fremont," said Mayor Gus Morrison.

Carl Guardino, president and chief executive officer of the Silicon Valley
Manufacturing Group, said that while he is unfamiliar with Taiwanese investment
here, "Fremont, more and more, is a bedroom and a boardroom for Silicon Valley."

The growing Asian influence and presence is difficult to miss and occasionally
gives rise to friction -- most notably in recent months, as many
Chinese-American parents have opposed attempts to redraw attendance boundaries
for Fremont's top high school, Mission San Jose.

The city's 30,000-student school district now has 10,000 Asian students -- with
Chinese as the largest Asian ethnic group. Chinese churches and congregations
regularly spring up around town. And these new communities, in turn, attract
restaurants, acupuncturists, language schools and banks.

Shir believes there are at least 100 non-high-tech Chinese businesses and
organizations in Fremont.

"You know the amazing thing is, when you go to (some) restaurants, all you see
is Chinese," said Josephine Li, senior vice president of planning and auditing
for Umax, one of the giants of the Taiwanese high-tech industry.

Fremont's allure, especially since the mid-1980s, has been based on several
factors: good schools, cheaper land prices compared with other Silicon Valley
locations, lower rents, convenient location and availability of land.

"Fremont is a relatively new (high-tech) area and has enough room for growth,"
said Ping Lee, vice president of product management for Supercom. "It has
cheaper rent, newer facilities, and it's convenient. It's not that far driving
up to (San Francisco), the San Francisco airport, and the San Jose airport.

"Geographically speaking, this is the center."

Shir also believes there is a snowball effect.

"Once you had a couple of companies, it started to become attractive to more and
more companies," he said. "Many times we tend to support each other. Say we get
parts, you tend to get them from people you know."

That networking soon could include a growing number of newcomers from the
People's Republic of China.

"You'll see more and more (immigration) from the mainland," predicted Ramon
Myers, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford. "The more
networking they are able to establish here, the more that will set up future
migration to the United States."

Not surprisingly, INS data lists Fremont as one of the top destinations for Hong
Kong and mainland Chinese immigrants as well as those from Taiwan.

Hedging bets

Taiwanese, in particular, pick cities such as Fremont because of political
uncertainty at home as well as a popular feeling that an American education
would reap benefits for their children, said Myers.

"They can either stay here or they can use both countries to do business," he
said. "There is strong motivation to hedge their bets."

Yet, pinning down the exact number of Chinese who live in Fremont is difficult.

The 1990 census counted about 11,000. Though current estimates differ, city
officials believe as many as 30,000 now live in Fremont -- or about 15 percent
of the city's 200,000 residents.

Those estimates suggest another important demographic shift: While Oakland and
San Francisco remain the traditional centers of Chinese-American population,
high-tech suburbs such as Fremont and Cupertino now seem the preferred homes for
new, better-educated immigrant Chinese.

That's a long way from the days when Fremont had to junk the idea of a Human
Relations Commission in the mid-1960s because there were so few minorities in
town.

Bob Lee, a 26-year Fremont resident, can recall when the only time he saw
another Chinese-American was when he went to the grocery store. Hungry
forcontact with others from their own ethnic group, local Chinese-Americans
founded the South Bay Chinese Club as a way to organize get-togethers.

Roots of change

"There were very, very few Chinese-owned businesses," said Henry Yin, a 23-year
Fremont resident and owner of Giant Y, a printer circuit board assembler. "We
didn't have any convenient restaurants. We had to go all the way to Oakland, San
Francisco or Berkeley."

But that began to change in the mid-1980s, when Taiwanese high-tech companies
and start-ups founded by Taiwanese immigrants first began to move to Fremont.

At the time, the Fremont Chinese School was the only Chinese language and
cultural school in the city, with several hundred students. Now there are five
schools in the Fremont area with a total enrollment of more than 2,000.

The new arrivals have mainly settled in Fremont's affluent Mission San Jose
district, lured principally by the reputation of public schools in that area.

Other ties

The connection between Fremont and Taiwan is driven home in other ways.

Officials from the giant Hsinchu Science-based Industrial Park regularly visit
the city. And Morrison, the Fremont mayor, learned firsthand two years ago about
interest in city affairs when he prepared to speak at a gathering in Hsinchu.

"They were serving us coffee, and (a woman) said, 'Mr. Mayor, why did you ban
fireworks this year?' " said Morrison, who was startled by a question more than
6,400 miles from home about the city's decision to end an annual July 4 display.

It turns out the woman has a sister who lives in Fremont and had been visiting
when the council killed the fireworks show.

The dramatic changes in Fremont haven't come without controversy. Though
criticisms tend to be muted, there is occasional grumbling from some residents
about the size and number of million-dollar mansions Chinese and Indo-Americans
build in the hills. Some parents voice concern about the intensely competitive
academic drive of Asian students in the schools. And there is frustration about
a perceived reluctance to become involved in school and community activities.

Chinese-American leaders are sensitive to such criticism, and they are trying to
make a difference in civic affairs. Citizens for Better Community, a
Chinese-American non-profit organization, has conducted a voter-registration
drive, fed the homeless and hosted a fundraiser to help Antonio Castillo, a
Fremont resident who was shot in January while trying to stop a San Francisco
robbery.

Fremont is also home to only the second Chinese-American Cancer Society in the
nation, which has helped thousands of patients and their families with
transportation to and from treatments, establishing support groups and offering
free health screenings.

Chinese leaders such as Dr. Albert Wang and Steve Cho, president of Citizens for
Better Community, say Chinese-Americans in Fremont must get even more involved.

Welcoming change

Morrison, meanwhile, takes an unqualified positive outlook on the migration to
Fremont.

"Diversity is always an advantage," he said, "because it just makes it much more
interesting."

When a conservative think tank notified Morrison two years ago that Fremont was
one of the American cities most affected by immigration, the mayor shrugged his
shoulders.

"We didn't notice an impact because these people came to give, not to take," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TAIWAN-FREMONT CONNECTION
Taiwanese investment has helped catapult Fremont into a higher-profile position
within Silicon Valley. A review of immigration and business data, along with
interviews with local Chinese business leaders, shows the following:
* At least 69 Taiwanese companies in 1996 were based -- or had offices -- in
Fremont, according to the Taiwanese government. This put Fremont second only to
San Jose with 95 firms. Though the Taiwan government hasn't updated those
numbers, Fremont is believed to have gained even more Taiwanese companies.
* According to Immigration and Naturalization Service statistics for 1992
through 1996, Fremont was listed as one of the top four destinations statewide
for Taiwanese immigrants arriving on the West Coast. In the Bay Area, Fremont
was second only to San Jose.
* Census figures show 11,000 Chinese (including Taiwanese) lived in Fremont in
1990. While there are no reliable, updated figures, the mayor of Fremont --
using school district attendance data that shows more than 30 percent of the
school population is now Asian -- estimates the Chinese population could be as
high as 30,000 today.
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, government of Taiwan, Fremont
city officials

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Map;
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
WHERE TAIWANESE IMMIGRANTS LIVE
Fremont has been the fourth most popular destination for Taiwanese immigrants to
California in the five most recent years that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service has data for, after San Jose and the Southern California cities of
Arcadia and Hacienda Heights.
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Fremont's Mission Square Shopping Center is known to many as Little Taipei
because it is a center of Taiwanese-American activity.
[990801 FR 1A]
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Edwin Chan tries to choose from among several dozen varieties of stuffed Chinese
pastries at the Sogo Bakery at Mission Square Shopping Center. The cluster of
businesses is a highly visible sign of the influx of Taiwanese and
Chinese-American residents in Fremont in recent years.
[990801 FR 22A]
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Victoria Shih, 6, digs into a bowl of noodles at the Mission Square Shopping
Center food court in Fremont. The Connecticut resident and her family were
visiting relatives in Fremont.
[990801 FR 22A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 7, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' PARTIAL VICTORY FOOD STAMPS: STATE BUDGET PACT KEEPS AID FOR SOME,
BUT ACTIVISTS OBJECT TO REINSTATING MEDI-CAL FRAUD PROGRAM.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 772 words


As part of this week's budget pact, Gov. Pete Wilson and legislative leaders
agreed to restore food stamps to most legal immigrants. But advocacy groups for
immigrants Thursday were hardly screaming victory.

Food aid was restored to non-citizen immigrants aged 18 to 64. But the new
program will generally apply only to those immigrants who were in the country as
of Aug. 22, 1996, the day President Clinton signed a landmark welfare reform law
that hit immigrants hard.

The agreement also resulted in continuation of a controversial 4-year-old
program aimed at combating Medi-Cal fraud.

This year, legislators killed the program after hearing horror stories about
harassment of Latino and Asian immigrants. But the governor's insistence got the
program revived during tough budget negotiations over benefits to immigrants.

"The fact that the Legislature originally de-funded the program and now it's
coming back is certainly troubling," said Rand Quinn, public policy director of
the Northern California Coalition for Immigrant Rights. "But when we get into
these negotiations, it's tit for tat."

The $68 million allocated to the food stamp program, too, was "a partial
victory," Quinn said, because most new immigrants will not be eligible unless
their sponsors become abusive, die or become disabled.

Looking at it another way, "it's a gradual phase-out of food stamp benefits for
immigrants," he said.

Still, Quinn and most immigrant advocates seemed pleased that the Democratic
leadership and governor recognized that immigrants had been unfairly targeted by
the federal welfare law.

Food stamps to most legal immigrants were cut off in September under the federal
welfare law, which eliminated most public benefits to most non-citizens. To ease
some of the pain, California last year launched its own food stamp program for
children and seniors.

Then last summer, Congress restored Supplemental Security Income benefits for
the disabled elderly. This year, it restored food stamps to immigrants under 18
and over 64.

In Santa Clara County, where three out of 10 residents are foreign-born, the
food stamp cuts were particularly severe.

According to a survey released in March, nearly half of the county's legal
immigrants affected by the cuts said they didn't have enough to eat.

The food stamp restoration for most legal immigrants is "great news for a lot of
needy families in our county who were forced to stretch limited dollars," said
Michelle Swalley, a spokeswoman for the county Social Service Agency.

Santa Clara County officials estimate that benefits to about 8,000 adults in
more than 5,000 households will be restored. State officials said Thursday they
don't know how many legal immigrants will be affected.

Perhaps the toughest budget-talks pill for advocacy groups to swallow was the
resurrection of the Medi-Cal anti-fraud program.

Wilson officials Thursday strongly defended the program. "Unless these laws are
enforced it hurts the ability for other immigrants to come into the country,"
said Sean Walsh, a Wilson spokesman.

In 1994, the Department of Health Services launched the anti-fraud program,
aimed at stopping foreigners from bilking the state's Medi-Cal system. It took a
strange turn after the state health investigators and federal immigration agents
teamed up and began pressuring legal U.S. residents -- even citizens -- to pay
back Medi-Cal benefits they were legally entitled to receive, or risk having
their relatives' visa applications rejected. The Public Charge Lookout System
had triggered widespread fear amid reports of immigration officers and state
investigators yanking green cards at airports and border checkpoints from
immigrants who received Medi-Cal.

State health officials, however, now say that they're no longer accepting
reimbursements from former Medi-Cal recipients for lawfully received benefits.
And the state is close to settling a class-action suit filed last year by San
Diego Friends of Legal Aid aimed at halting the practice and recovering more
than $3 million paid by former Medi-Cal recipients over the past two years.

Deputy Director Walter Barnes, who heads the audits and investigations division
of the health department, said Thursday that he was happy to see $1.6 million in
funding for the anti-fraud program restored.

As part of the budget deal, the department will set up a hotline to report
alleged abuse by department investigators.

"We were appropriately criticized for operating the Public Charge Lookout
System," Barnes said. "But our concern is with people trying to cheat the
system."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 26, 1999 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GORE'S IMMIGRANT-BENEFITS VOW PLAN WOULD RESTORE FUNDS CUT IN '96

BYLINE: MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Using a Chinatown senior center as a backdrop, Vice President Al Gore said
Monday that the White House will propose restoring food stamps and health and
disability benefits stripped from legal immigrants by the welfare reform act
President Clinton signed into law in 1996.

In the budget Clinton will present to Congress next month, the administration
will ask for $1.3 billion over five years to pay for programs aimed at elderly
immigrants and children of recently arriving immigrant parents. Many Democrats
had lambasted Clinton for enacting the cuts in the first place, which he
promised in 1996 to try to restore.

"President Clinton and I made a solemn promise to the nation that we would
remove those harmful provisions and would work tirelessly to restore a sense of
justice and fairness and equity and common decency in the way this nation deals
with legal immigrants," the vice president said, surrounded by Chinatown social
workers and community activists.

The announcement by Gore, who is widely considered the leading candidate to
become the Democrats' nominee for president in 2000, came near the end of a
two-day swing through vote-rich California, where minority voters are gaining a
larger share of the electorate. It also came on the same day that Gore's former
Senate colleagues went behind closed doors to debate crucial motions that will
affect the outcome of the president's impeachment trial.

In an interview with Bay Area reporters following his speech, Gore said he
expects the impeachment trial to end shortly.

'Probably a time limit'

"I just have that feeling based on 16 years in the legislative branch, and
knowing some of my Republican colleagues in the Senate, I think there's probably
a time limit on how long they will bow to the wishes of their caucus," Gore
said.

In Santa Claus-like fashion, Gore has been crisscrossing California doling out
money for a variety of programs. On this latest jaunt, Gore's 14th visit to
California in the past year, he announced money for student readingprograms,
legal immigrants, high-tech companies and crime victims.

While in San Francisco, Gore also announced Monday a new $400 million White
House initiative to modernize the Global Positioning System for commercial and
consumer use. GPS satellites guide commercial transportation as well as drivers
of high-end cars and hikers.

At his final stop, in Sacramento, he talked about education priorities and
announced California would receive more than $40 million from federal-levied
fines for help for crime victims. And in a private meeting on Air Force 2, Gore
and Gov. Gray Davis discussed how federal funds could be used to reduce class
size in high schools.

But the centerpiece of Monday's announcement was the Clinton administration plan
to restore additional immigrant benefits taken away by welfare reform, an event
Gore blamed squarely on Republicans.

"Throughout our history there has always been a struggle, deep in the national
character, between the party of fear and the party of hope," Gore said. "This
struggle continues today and it was manifested in the way Congress in 1996
framed the welfare reform bill" to add provisions that "had nothing to do with
welfare reform."

Santa Clara County social service advocates welcomed the news, as both the
county and state have been picking up the cost of immigrant benefits once shared
by the federal government.

Many Democrats criticized Clinton for signing the 1996 reform bill, pointing to
the cuts in immigrant aid, among them San Francisco congresswoman Nancy Pelosi,
D-San Francisco. Introducing Gore on Monday, Pelosi said she had been
"disappointed" but commended subsequent Clinton administration moves to restore
most of the 1996 cuts.

"It's about time," said Gil Villagran, manager of community relations for Santa
Clara County's department of social services.

The Clinton administration estimates more than 130,000 legal immigrants will
benefit by the new rules nationwide.

Five-year wait

Under the proposal, after five years legal immigrants, regardless of when they
arrived, would be eligible for Medicaid and Supplemental Security Income.

Food stamp eligibility would be expanded to legal immigrants who turn 65,
regardless of their immigration date.

States could provide health care to legal immigrant children, and women who
entered the country and became pregnant after Aug. 22, 1996, the date welfare
reform was passed.

With California's primary barely more than 13 months away, Gore refused to
discuss his presidential ambitions with reporters. But his largess did not go
unnoticed by some state officials.

"It's Christmastime in California," said Anita Gore, no relation, of the state's
Department of Health and Welfare.

But when asked what he thought of the viability of San Francisco Mayor Willie
Brown, who appeared with Gore Monday, or U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.,
as potential running mates, Gore demurred. "I haven't even announced myself as a
candidate yet," he said. "I appreciate the question, but I'm certainly going to
dodge it."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: page 1C

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Vice President Al Gore greets Angeles Rodriguez on Monday in San Francisco.
[990126 FR 9A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 21, 1999 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UKRAINE SEEKS EX-PREMIER'S RETURN LAZARENKO, ACCUSED OF EMBEZZLEMENT, IS
ALLEGEDLY IN THE U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Ukraine wants the United States to return former Prime Minister Pavlo Lazarenko,
who it says is trying to escape being prosecuted for allegedly stealing $2.1
million from his own government.

Lazarenko was being detained Saturday by immigration officials after trying to
enter the country with an invalid visa the day before, said Yurii Schkuremko,
vice consul of the Ukrainian Mission to the United Nations.

Lazarenko is suspected of large-scale corruption and embezzlement, and an arrest
warrant was issued last week for him by Ukraine's chief prosecutor.

He refused to meet with Ukrainian diplomats in New York City and apparently
planned to appeal for political asylum, the vice consul said.

An embassy official in Washington, D.C., told the Associated Press that the
Ukrainian government was appealing to the U.S. State Department for Lazarenko's
return. The State Department could not immediately confirm the request.

U.S. immigration officials would neither confirm nor deny Lazarenko was in New
York.

On Wednesday, parliament stripped Lazarenko of his legislative immunity,
clearing the way for his arrest.

Lazarenko, 45, is suspected of stealing $2.1 million of government money and
illegally stashing about $4 million in a Swiss bank between 1993 and 1997. He
was prime minister from 1996 to '97.

He left Ukraine two days before the parliament vote on a chartered plane, and
said in a letter released in parliament on Wednesday that he was in a Greek
hospital recuperating from a "sudden heart attack."

However, the Ukrainian Embassy in Greece later said it had no information about
Lazarenko's whereabouts.

Mykhailo Potebenko, the chief prosecutor in Ukraine, said Friday that
Lazarenko's family is in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Lazarenko
[990221 FR 7A]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 25, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISA BILL GETS BOOST TECH WORKERS: KEY LAWMAKERS RESOLVE ISSUE CAUSING DEADLOCK.

BYLINE: MIGUEL HELFT, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 811 words


A plan to increase the number of skilled foreign workers admitted into the
United States -- one of the high-tech industry's top legislative priorities --
got a significant boost Friday when key lawmakers announced they have resolved
the issue that had deadlocked the proposed legislation.

Lawmakers from the House and Senate agreed on measures that they said would
ensure the additional foreign workers do not displace U.S. workers -- a
requirement the White House had insisted on.

But the compromise, part of a bill that would raise the annual number of those
admitted on so-called H-1B visas from 65,000 to 115,000 by 2001, swiftly drew
criticism from labor and engineering groups who are urging President Clinton to
veto it.

Silicon Valley companies, which employ thousands of foreign workers, have
lobbied intensely for additional H-1B visas arguing they are not able to find
enough workers in the U.S. and that the visa cap limits the industry's dramatic
growth. This year's H-1B visa cap was met in June, essentially shutting down the
program until the end of the federal fiscal year Sept. 30.

For months, the House of Representatives and the Senate had been at odds over
the issue. In May, the Senate approved a version of the bill that wouldraise the
annual visa cap to 95,000 for the next five years and penalize companies that
abused the program. However, the House bill -- sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas -- included additional provisions requiring companies that attempt to
hire foreign workers to show they had not laid off American workers within six
months and that they had attempted to recruit domestically.

The high-tech industry had called the Smith bill's restrictions unworkable. But
the White House had promised to veto any legislation that did not include
protections for U.S. jobs and training for domestic workers.

On Friday, Smith and Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., announced a compromise that
would limit the restrictions in the House bill to companies whose workforces
include at least 15 percent foreign workers -- thereby excluding most large
high-tech employers.

'Job Shops'

The companies that would fall under the restrictions, sometimes referred to as
"job shops," often subcontract their workers to larger employers. Under the
compromise, they would have to show they are not funneling foreign workers to
firms that use them to replace laid off workers. The bill, whose details have
not been finalized, would also provide funds for training U.S. workers.

"This agreement is good for business, good for workers, good for America," said
Smith in a news release. "It targets likely abusers of the system with stiff
penalties."

White House spokesman Barry Toiv said Friday the compromise made "some
progress," but that administration officials were awaiting more specifics before
deciding whether they would sign the bill.

Representatives of the high-tech industry were quick to praise the compromise.

"I think this is something that is damn good," said William Archey, president
and chief executive officer of the American Electronics Association, an industry
group representing more than 3,000 U.S.-based technology companies. "To me this
thing . . . is really quite simple. Take a look at the valley and the number of
foreign nationals who have created enormous intellectual property, wealth and
jobs. Why should you stop doing a good thing?"

But labor and engineering worker groups criticized the agreement, arguing it
would allow employers to use low-cost foreign workers instead of employing
better-paid U.S. workers.

Some disappointment

"Obviously we are disappointed," said Paul Kostek, president-elect of the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers-United States, a
220,000-member group. Kostek said that since the visa cap became a national
issue, unemployment among engineers has risen from 0.4 percent to 2.2 percent.
Although the number is still small, he said, the trend was worrisome. "One
minute companies are laying off people, the next minute they are testifying that
they desperately need more H-1B visas."

Kostek said the IEEE has already urged President Clinton to veto the bill, if
makes it through Congress.

"This is really a sell-out of American college graduates," said Jack Golodner,
president of the AFL-CIO Department of Professional Employees, which represents
4 million professional, technical and administrative workers.

Lawmakers are expected to draft a version of the compromise bill as early as
next week.

"This agreement is a major breakthrough, and I expect both chambers to pass it
before the August recess," Abraham said in a news release.

The bill would raise the cap on H-1B visas to 95,000 in 1999, 105,000 in 2000
and 115,000 in 2001 and 2002. It will also raise by 20,000 the limit for the
current fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 1, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISA VETO THREATENED CLINTON WARNING: PRESIDENT SEEKS CHANGES THAT WOULD LOWER
THE NUMBER OF ADDITIONAL FOREIGN SKILLED WORKERS.

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A Republican compromise to resolve one of Silicon Valley's most pressing issues
unraveled Friday after the Clinton administration threatened to veto legislation
to allow more skilled foreign workers into the country -- unless Congress agrees
to a slew of additional provisions.

The new provisions would scale back a proposed annual increase in special visas
and provide more protections for American workers. Emerging just before the
Senate was to adjourn for an August recess, the administration's proposal
short-circuited a carefully crafted bill that congressional leaders were poised
to rush through.

Now high-tech executives must wait at least until September -- when Congress
returns for a short stint before leaving again to campaign -- to get an increase
in the annual limit of temporary visas for foreign workers. This year's limit of
65,000 was reached in May, five months before the end of the fiscal year.

"We may lose some very talented people . . . so we need to get it done," said
Michael Maibach, vice president of governmental affairs for Intel, who remains
optimistic the bill will become law this year. "We're really working out details
of something we all want to get done, as opposed to some of the issues that come
up in this town."

Silicon Valley executives have been pleading for months to increase the number
of so-called H-1b visas, which allow skilled foreign workers into the country
for three years.

The industry's dramatic growth has left it with thousands of unfilled jobs, and
high-tech companies say there aren't enough skilled American workers such as
engineers and computer programmers to fill the void. Some employee
organizations, however, argue that the industry abuses the visa program by
hiring lower-paid foreign workers rather than available American engineers.

A compromise by leaders in the Senate and House of Representatives, reached on
July 24, would have temporarily increased the annual number of visas in steps to
115,000 by 2002, before dropping back down to the current level in 2003. It
melded a Senate bill that mostly dealt with increasing the cap and a House
version that contained additional measures designed to keep foreign workers from
displacing Americans.

Tech opposition

The high-tech community opposed some of the worker protection provisions in the
House bill, such as a requirement that companies sign statements with each visa
application attesting that no American worker was laid off to create the
opening. The White House, in contrast, had objected to the Senate bill because
it lacked such provisions.

But the compromise between congressional Democrats and Republicans seemed to
resolve that by narrowing the worker-protection provisions to apply only to
companies with more than 15 percent of their workforce in the country on H-1b
visas. The provision was aimed at so-called job shops, which bring foreign
workers into the country, then place them with high-tech companies.

With the compromise reached, the revised bill was put on a fast track for a
quick vote in the Senate on Friday before its annual summer recess, and a vote
Tuesday in the House before it breaks Aug. 7.

The Clinton administration on Thursday night, however, threatened to veto the
bill, saying the compromise still did not adequately protect U.S. workers or
provide enough training for Americans to be able to fill those high-skill jobs.
The White House issued a list of 15 changes it wanted in the bill.

Many of them are technical, but among the most significant are:

* Increasing the cap only until the year 2000 -- a move that effectively cuts
the additional number of foreign workers from 190,000 over five years to 120,000
over three years.

* Charging companies $500 for each H-1b application filed or $1,000 for each
visa granted, with the money going to fund worker training programs. Under the
compromise bill, a $250 fee would be charged for each visa application.

* Forcing more companies to attest that they will not lay off an American
employee to fill the job with a foreign worker by dropping the percentage of a
company's workforce composed of foreigners to 10 percent from 15 percent.

"We've run this by some people in the private sector and we think it's pretty
reasonable and we think we can reach a compromise on this," said an
administration official who did not want to be named.

But Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., the Senate sponsor of the legislation, plans
no significant changes because many of the administration's proposals would
cripple the H-1b visa program, said spokesman Joe McMonigle.

Support in Senate

McMonigle said Abraham will take his chances with wide support in the Senate,
which earlier passed Abraham's bill 78-20, a sufficient margin to override a
Clinton veto. A vote on the bill is still scheduled for Tuesday in the House,
though it was unclear Friday if additional changes will be made to reflect the
administration's desires.

Paul Kostek, president-elect of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers-United States, a group representing 220,000 engineers, said he was
heartened by the White House proposals.

"With unemployment starting to go up, we think if we're going to pass any
legislation, though we still have doubts about the need for it, it's wiser to
limit it to just a couple of years," Kostek said.

Mary Dee Beall, government affairs manager for Hewlett-Packard Co., described
some of the administration's proposals as "very troublesome." She declined to
say which provisions were troublesome, but still believes a deal can be worked
out.

Like many large companies, Hewlett-Packard has only a small percentage of its
workforce in the country on H-1b visas. Of HP's 60,000 U.S. employees, only
about 500 are here through the program, she said. Still, the delay in increasing
the cap already is causing problems.

"I know we have some managers who are holding positions open for particular
people they had recruited before the quota hit," Beall said. "And in the case
where there is a specific individual we're after, it is a problem."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PROPOSED CHANGES
The Clinton administration Friday proposed 15 changes in legislation that would
increase the H-1b visa limit for skilled foreign workers. Among them:
* Increasing the cap from 65,000 visas annually in steps to 115,000 in 2000.
Legislation in Congress stretches the increases until 2002.
* Requiring companies to pay a fee -- either $500 for each visa application or
$1,000 for each visa granted -- to train American workers in high-tech skills.
* Expanding the number of companies that must attest that they will not lay off
an American employee to fill a job with a foreign worker. The pending
legislation would place that requirement on companies with 15 percent or more of
their workforce in the country on H-1b visas; Clinton wants to lower the
threshold to 10 percent.
Source: Clinton administration

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 7, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE POSTPONES VOTE ON VISA BILL CLINTON THREATENS VETO, SO PASSAGE IS IN
DANGER FOR THIS YEAR

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Republican leaders in the House of Representatives on Thursday abandoned plans
for a quick vote to increase the number of high-tech workers allowed into the
country, endangering the chances of passing the legislation this year.

The move by the House -- following last week's veto threat and a subsequent
decision by the Senate to postpone the issue -- indicates the difficulty of
reaching a compromise on legislation Silicon Valley executives have made one of
their top priorities in Washington.

The annual limit on the number of so-called H-1B visas available to foreign
workers was reached in May, five months before the end of the federal fiscal
year. One high-tech official predicted Thursday that without an increase, next
year's cap would be reached in only two months.

High-tech officials say the industry's growth is threatened if the limit is not
increased so highly skilled foreign workers can fill thousands of open jobs. But
others -- including the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers-United
States -- say the shortage is not so severe, and charge that companies are
laying off U.S. workers to replace them with foreigners indebted to the firms
that applied for their temporary visas.

With Congress failing to act on the increase before its annual summer recess,
legislation would have to be approved by both houses of Congress in a short fall
session beginning in September. Michael Maibach, Intel's vice president for
government affairs, said the chances of getting the visa limit increased this
year now has dropped below 50-50.

"It reduces our chances, but the bill is not dead," he said. "What we hope to do
in the next four or five weeks is work closely with the administration and
Congress to come up with language that everyone is comfortable with."

High-tech executives and Republican congressional leaders thought they had done
that when they struck a compromise July 24 between differing versions passed by
the Senate and under consideration in the House. The compromise called for the
annual limit on H-1B visas to increase in steps from the current 65,000 limit to
115,000 in 2002, before reverting to the current level. The bill also included
additional measures, sought by the White House, designed to keep foreign workers
from displacing Americans and to train U.S. workers to take some of those
high-tech jobs.

More safeguards sought

But the Clinton administration felt those worker protections didn't go far
enough, and last week threatened a veto unless 15 additional provisions were
added. Given that opposition, the Senate decided to forgo plans to vote on the
bill before it recessed last Friday.

Republican leaders in the House, however, initially tried to charge ahead with
the legislation in hopes of forcing the White House to veto key high-tech
legislation in an election year. Andrew Weinstein, a spokesman for House Speaker
Newt Gingrich, said the White House veto threat was a "slap in the face" to
America's high-tech industry, and said it impugned Vice President Al Gore's
high-tech reputation.

"When push came to shove, the vice president chose his Luddite labor allies over
the competitive interests of America's high-tech companies," Weinstein said.
Gingrich met with executives from technology firms Monday night and urged them
to increase their lobbying for the bill. And on Tuesday, House Majority Leader
Dick Armey suggested he was willing to make some revisions to the bill, but not
the major ones the White House was seeking.

But many Democratic supporters of the bill were not willing to back it with
President Clinton still threatening a veto, said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose,
one of the bill's key backers. Democrats in the House were left in the dark as
Republicans in the House and Senate worked out the July 24 compromise, she said.
"This is almost a textbook example of how working outside of a bipartisan basis
leads to problems," Lofgren said.

Major roadblock

At present, the major sticking point appears to be the Clinton administration's
insistence on creating an arbitration procedure in the Department of Labor for
American workers who believe they were replaced by a foreign worker in violation
of a requirement in the law.

"If you make the program so cumbersome that we have the Department of Labor
looking over our shoulder with every hiring and recruiting decision we make,
that just isn't a decision we're going to be able to live with," said Mary Dee
Beall, government affairs manager for Hewlett-Packard Co.

But an administration official sounded a conciliatory tone.

"We're negotiating in good faith. If others want to make this a politically
charged issue, they're just lessening the chances of reaching a compromise and
getting something done that will help everyone," said Jake Seiwert of the
administration's National Economic Council. "There's no reason we can't come up
with a compromise and get this done as soon as the House and Senate get back."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Dick Armey
The House majority leader said he would make changes but was not willing to make
major concessions to satisfy the White House.
[980807 BU 1C 1]
PHOTO: Zoe Lofgren
The San Jose Democrat, a key backer of the legislation, said the Democrats would
not support it with Clinton threatening a veto.
[980807 BU 1C 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 11, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ON INDUSTRY'S SIDE HIGH-TECH WORKERS:GRAY DAVIS SAYS HE'LL URGE PRESIDENT
CLINTON TO SUPPORT ENABLING LEGISLATION TO RECRUIT SKILLED FOREIGNERS.

BYLINE: MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 600 words


Siding with Silicon Valley leaders instead of organized labor, Lt. Gov. Gray
Davis, the Democratic nominee for governor, said Monday that he will urge
President Clinton to sign Republican-backed legislation allowing companies to
recruit an increased number of high-skilled foreign workers -- with no strings
attached.

Clinton and Davis will appear together today in San Francisco for a
Davisfundraiser and an event highlighting the federal Clean Water Act. Davis
made a campaign swing through Silicon Valley on Monday, stopping at 3Com Corp.
to visit with workers.

Davis' stance is testament to the growing influence of the high-tech community
in California politics. It also reflects an effort by Attorney General Dan
Lungren, the Republican nominee, to force Davis into a choice between supporting
his longtime labor allies or Silicon Valley leaders.

Clinton recently threatened to veto compromise legislation on additional visas
for foreign workers that Silicon Valley corporate leaders say are urgently
needed to fill thousands of jobs.

The administration says the current measure doesn't provide adequate protections
to prevent U.S. workers from being replaced by foreign ones or requirements that
corporations train Americans for the jobs.

Upping pressure on Davis, Lungren challenged him in a letter Monday: "California
needs you to demonstrate leadership on this issue immediately," adding that
California's place in the global economy "must not be held hostage by the
punishing demands of a handful of labor bosses."

Later that day, when pressed to clarify his views on whether companies should be
required to pay for training American workers in exchange for visas, Davis said
he would not make it mandatory.

'Powers of persuasion'

Davis, who said he had not seen Lungren's letter and would not comment on it
specifically, explained that he would not want the federal legislation to expand
H-1B visas "to mandate companies to do anything." Instead, he would use his
"powers of persuasion, Judeo-Christian guilt-tripping and other forms of
persuasion to encourage companies to do the right thing."

He said he will urge Clinton to sign the bill as is.

Lungren said in an interview Monday that he thought it was necessary for Davis
to enunciate his position with Clinton. Lungren also referred to earlier
comments by Davis suggesting companies should be able to recruit more foreign
workers if they pay for training. "He is going to penalize them by taxing them.
I think he is crazy," Lungren said.

Davis, who will return to Silicon Valley on Aug. 27 for a fundraiser hosted by
Vice President Al Gore, has been busy building relationships with technology
leaders since winning the Democratic primary. He enjoyed the support of only a
few high-profile corporate supporters in that race. Several leaders had
expressed concern that Davis remained neutral on Proposition 211, which would
have expanded securities litigation, and the North American Free Trade
Agreement.

"I'm not here to make amends," Davis said. "There are plenty of people who see
my social views and my assistance to industry in general as the controller of
this state, head of the tax system for eight years, as meriting their support."

OK with Clinton

Davis dismissed suggestions that his appearance with Clinton, a week before the
president is scheduled to present closed-circuit testimony to the grand jury
probing the Monica Lewinsky scandal, might taint his candidacy.

"On issues, we're together. I admire what he's done for the country, and I'm
happy to campaign with him," Davis said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION '98

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Lt. Gov. Gray Davis stops to chat with husband-and-wife employees Dan and Stacy
Barrett on Monday during a visit to 3Com Corp. in Santa Clara.
[980811 LO 1B 1]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 14, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOXER: CLINTON SHOULD SIGN BILL BOOSTING TECH VISAS

BYLINE: SARAH LUBMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 709 words


Sen. Barbara Boxer came down squarely on the side of Silicon Valley industry
Thursday, saying President Clinton should sign Republican-backed legislation to
allow more skilled foreign workers into the country without added protection for
U.S. workers.

Boxer, a Democrat who enjoys strong support from labor, said she has lobbied for
the Senate version of the bill with White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles.

"I said, we need to move this forward," Boxer, who is running for re-election
against Republican State Treasurer Matt Fong, told the Mercury News' editorial
board. "This is a crisis in our community. We have enough protection in this
bill."

The senator also said she doesn't believe U.S. companies should be required to
fund the training of more American workers as compensation for adding foreign
employees, as the Clinton administration has demanded.

"It's a failure of our education system," Boxer said, noting that companies
already spend billions of dollars annually on training. "I don't think we should
lay this particular problem at the doors of the companies who are doing a lot
already."

The issue of lifting the cap on the number of so-called H-1B visas for skilled
foreign workers is a top priority for Silicon Valley companies. Another longtime
labor ally, Democratic gubernatorial nominee Lt. Gov. GrayDavis, has come out in
favor of lifting the visa quotas with no training requirements attached -- a
reflection of the high-tech community's growing pull in California politics.

The annual 65,000 limit on H-1B visas was reached in May, five months before the
end of the federal fiscal year. High-tech officials maintain their industry's
growth is threatened if they can't fill thousands of open jobs with foreign
workers. But labor advocates and employee organizations argue that the shortage
isn't so dire, and say the industry is laying off U.S. citizens to hire
lower-paid workers from overseas.

Congress has been wrestling with the issue for months.

The Senate passed a bill in May, but the White House objected, saying it didn't
offer enough protection for domestic workers. The House of Representatives came
up with another version. Then on July 24, leaders in the Senate and the House
reached a compromise that would temporarily increase H-1B visas in steps from
the current limit to 115,000 in 2002, before dropping back to the current level.

The compromise bill included provisions sought by the White House that aim to
keep foreign workers from displacing Americans, and to train U.S. workers for
some of those high-tech jobs.

But the Clinton administration decided the protections didn't go far enough, and
early this month threatened a veto unless 15 additional provisions were added.
Now Congress and the White House are renegotiating.

Despite her strong pro-industry stance, Boxer didn't seem entirely up to speed
about the compromise legislation reached by the Senate and House.

"I'm for the bill, the Senate version," she said. "See, I'm a little confused
because there's another version in the House."

In fact, the compromise legislation Clinton has threatened to veto melded the
Senate bill that Boxer supported with a House version that contained the extra
worker protection provisions.

In addition, while Boxer and other politicians have been quick to defend
high-tech companies from having to pay more for training, that's not the major
issue at this point.

Instead, Silicon Valley firms are upset about the White House's desire to make
more companies attest that they won't lay off an American employee to fill the
job with a foreign worker. The Clinton administration wants to achieve that goal
by dropping the percentage of foreign workers in a company's workforce to 10
percent from 15 percent before granting an H-1B visa.

The other key sticking point is the White House's insistence on letting American
workers who believe they've been illegally displaced by foreign workers
arbitrate their case with the Department of Labor.

At a lunch forum at Sunnyvale-based Amdahl Corp. earlier in the day, Boxer
warned an audience of about 150 people that the nation can't afford to be
complacent about economic growth.

"We have to keep the innovation going," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Boxer
Says companies shouldn't be required to fund U.S. training.
[980814 BU 1C 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 14, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOXER: CLINTON SHOULD SIGN BILL BOOSTING TECH VISAS

BYLINE: SARAH LUBMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 709 words


Sen. Barbara Boxer came down squarely on the side of Silicon Valley industry
Thursday, saying President Clinton should sign Republican-backed legislation to
allow more skilled foreign workers into the country without added protection for
U.S. workers.

Boxer, a Democrat who enjoys strong support from labor, said she has lobbied for
the Senate version of the bill with White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles.

"I said, we need to move this forward," Boxer, who is running for re-election
against Republican State Treasurer Matt Fong, told the Mercury News' editorial
board. "This is a crisis in our community. We have enough protection in this
bill."

The senator also said she doesn't believe U.S. companies should be required to
fund the training of more American workers as compensation for adding foreign
employees, as the Clinton administration has demanded.

"It's a failure of our education system," Boxer said, noting that companies
already spend billions of dollars annually on training. "I don't think we should
lay this particular problem at the doors of the companies who are doing a lot
already."

The issue of lifting the cap on the number of so-called H-1B visas for skilled
foreign workers is a top priority for Silicon Valley companies. Another longtime
labor ally, Democratic gubernatorial nominee Lt. Gov. GrayDavis, has come out in
favor of lifting the visa quotas with no training requirements attached -- a
reflection of the high-tech community's growing pull in California politics.

The annual 65,000 limit on H-1B visas was reached in May, five months before the
end of the federal fiscal year. High-tech officials maintain their industry's
growth is threatened if they can't fill thousands of open jobs with foreign
workers. But labor advocates and employee organizations argue that the shortage
isn't so dire, and say the industry is laying off U.S. citizens to hire
lower-paid workers from overseas.

Congress has been wrestling with the issue for months.

The Senate passed a bill in May, but the White House objected, saying it didn't
offer enough protection for domestic workers. The House of Representatives came
up with another version. Then on July 24, leaders in the Senate and the House
reached a compromise that would temporarily increase H-1B visas in steps from
the current limit to 115,000 in 2002, before dropping back to the current level.

The compromise bill included provisions sought by the White House that aim to
keep foreign workers from displacing Americans, and to train U.S. workers for
some of those high-tech jobs.

But the Clinton administration decided the protections didn't go far enough, and
early this month threatened a veto unless 15 additional provisions were added.
Now Congress and the White House are renegotiating.

Despite her strong pro-industry stance, Boxer didn't seem entirely up to speed
about the compromise legislation reached by the Senate and House.

"I'm for the bill, the Senate version," she said. "See, I'm a little confused
because there's another version in the House."

In fact, the compromise legislation Clinton has threatened to veto melded the
Senate bill that Boxer supported with a House version that contained the extra
worker protection provisions.

In addition, while Boxer and other politicians have been quick to defend
high-tech companies from having to pay more for training, that's not the major
issue at this point.

Instead, Silicon Valley firms are upset about the White House's desire to make
more companies attest that they won't lay off an American employee to fill the
job with a foreign worker. The Clinton administration wants to achieve that goal
by dropping the percentage of foreign workers in a company's workforce to 10
percent from 15 percent before granting an H-1B visa.

The other key sticking point is the White House's insistence on letting American
workers who believe they've been illegally displaced by foreign workers
arbitrate their case with the Department of Labor.

At a lunch forum at Sunnyvale-based Amdahl Corp. earlier in the day, Boxer
warned an audience of about 150 people that the nation can't afford to be
complacent about economic growth.

"We have to keep the innovation going," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Boxer
Says companies shouldn't be required to fund U.S. training.
[980814 BU 1C 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 25, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW DEVRY CAMPUS BEGINS TRAINING LOCALS

BYLINE: DENNIS AKIZUKI, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 368 words


Just hours after a new deal was struck to allow more skilled foreign workers
into the United States, Silicon Valley leaders toasted the opening of a
technological institute they say will produce more trained, home-grown talent
forl high-tech companies.

The Mission San Jose High School band blared and a robotic arm cut the ribbon to
celebrate the grand opening of the DeVry Institute of Technology's
100,000-square-foot Silicon Valley campus in north Fremont near the Dumbarton
Bridge.

DeVry, which has 33,000 students on 15 campuses in eight states and two Canadian
provinces, is expected to graduate hundreds of students each year from its
Fremont campus with bachelor degrees in subjects such as electronic engineering
technology, computer information systems, telecommunications management and
business administration.

That's like the rhythmic clicking of a hard drive to the ears of industry
leaders.

"Those (students) in the back are the future of Silicon Valley," said Carl
Guardino, president of the Silicon Valley Manufacturing Group, as he looked at
the several dozen DeVry students who attended the Thursday morning ceremony.

Guardino acknowledged the importance of winning approval for more H-1B visas but
declared, "Our real goal is to continue to train our young people to work in the
jobs here in the valley."

Becky Morgan, president of Joint Venture Silicon Valley, told the audience of
students, elected officials and corporate officials that her organization has
launched a local initiative to develop a cooperative plan between education and
industry officials to "grow our own workforce."

Fremont campus president George DuPuy said DeVry will also import talent from
across the country to Silicon Valley.

More than 2,300 DeVry graduates from other campuses already work for Silicon
Valley companies. Among them is Paul Lindstrom, Lam Research's vice president of
worldwide manufacturing and who graduated from DeVry's Phoenix school.

DeVry's 2-story Fremont campus -- capable of educating 3,000 students -- boasts
a lab equipped with 90 computers and room for 70 more, an electronics lab with
space for 170 computers, and a library spread out over two floors.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Telecommunications students Hong Tran, front, and Jeremy Ticzon, sitting next to
her, watch the ribbon cutting at the DeVry Institute of Technology's new Fremont
campus.
[980925 BU 2C 1]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 25, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TECH-VISA BILL CLEARS THE HOUSE CLINTON, SENATE ON BOARD

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A deal to expand a temporary visa program for skilled foreign workers cleared
its only significant remaining hurdle Thursday as the House of Representatives
overwhelmingly endorsed it.

The 288-133 vote came just a day after White House and congressional negotiators
crafted an agreement -- long sought by the tech industry -- that will expand the
H-1B visa program over the next three years. Labor unions swiftly proclaimed
opposition to the deal but have virtually no chance of stopping it now that it
has passed the House.

The Senate, which approved a similar visa expansion bill earlier this year, will
take action as early as today. President Clinton has promised to sign it into
law.

The legislation will increase the current 65,000 annual visa cap to 115,000 in
1999 and 2000, then to 107,500 in 2001 before reverting to its current level in
2002. The bill also adds a $500 fee for each visa granted to fund worker
training and scholarships, as well as new guidelines designed to prevent
companies from replacing American workers with temporary foreigners.

"This is a tough bill. It's a balanced bill, and it's a bill that provides
funding for American school kids so they can become the scientists and engineers
we need," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, in arguing for its passage
Thursday.

But some Democrats and Republicans argued that it didn't go far enough to
protect American workers, echoing complaints from unions that high-tech
companies prefer temporary foreign workers because they work more cheaply and
are indebted to the company that applied for their 6-year temporary visa.

"Big business' claim that there is a worker shortage curiously comes at a time
when our nation's high-tech companies have laid off over 200,000 American
employees this year," said Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Huntington Beach, whose
Orange County district is home to many aerospace workers who lost their jobs
during the defense downsizing of the 1980s.

"This is not about a shortage of qualified American workers. It is about
pacifying a big business interest who is trying to secure cheap foreign
workers."

Lofgren and Rohrabacher bucked their respective parties on the issue --
Democrats generally were not supportive of the legislation, while most
Republicans favored it. A proposal to pass an earlier version of the legislation
that contained stricter layoff protections for American workers was defeated
242-177 in the House of Representatives on Thursday.

The White House walked a fine line on the issue, trying not to anger either the
booming high-tech industry or organized labor. Wednesday night's compromise
followed a White House threat to veto an earlier version of the legislation in
July that expanded the program for five years and did not include enough worker
protections.

There is a backlog of 30,000 H-1B visa applications; many companies said they've
had to delay projects until they could bring in workers.

"This deals with the immediate shortage," said Jennifer Eisen, manager for human
resource policy at Intel Corp. of Santa Clara. "We're extremely pleased we were
able to come to a deal with the administration."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 25, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COMING TO AMERICA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 596 words


SILICON Valley companies will be able to hire more foreign engineers and
programmers in the next three years. On Thursday, the House passed a bill
increasing the cap on temporary H-1B visas for skilled workers. The Senate and
the White House have agreed to the plan.

Over all, this is a very good deal for high-tech industry. But is it a good deal
for Americans? We think so.

To prevent a presidential veto, high-tech employers made some concessions on the
duration of the higher visa limit. The cap will rise to 115,000 in 1999 and 2000
and to 107,500 in 2001, going back to the current limit of 65,000 in 2002.

They also agreed to pay a $500 fee per visa application and renewal, instead of
$250, raising $75 million annually to pay for job training and for 10,000
scholarships for low-income students in math, engineering, and computer science.

High-tech industry is growing rapidly, creating an enormous demand for computer
engineers and scientists that can't be met without tapping into the global
talent pool.

H-1B visas allow companies to import skilled workers in technology, health care
and other fields for up to six years. This year, visas ran out nearly five
months early, leaving 30,000 applications stacked up.

Visa critics charge that employers hire H-1B engineers and programmers because
they'll work cheaper than Americans. Most visa recipients want the employer's
help in qualifying for permanent residency, so they're unlikely to complain
about mistreatment.

By current law, employers are required to pay H-1B workers as much as comparable
American workers. The bill toughens penalties for employers who willfully break
the law: There's now a $35,000 fine per violation, and no visa eligibility for
three years.

It also adds new protections against layoffs of existing workers, and requires
that Americans be recruited for jobs before an H-1B application isfiled.
Employers can be fined by an arbitration panel if they can't show the foreigner
who got the job was more qualified than the American who didn't. These no-layoff
and recruiting provisions apply only if H-1Bs make up more than 15 percent of
the company's workforce -- essentially to "job shops" specializing in foreign
workers -- because that's where most of the violations have occurred in the
past.

However, the bill doesn't allow the kind of enforcement that would assure
Americans that employers aren't cheating.

The Department of Labor will be able to spot check the compliance of past
offenders, but won't be able to investigate suspected violations by other
employers without credible evidence of wrongdoing and the secretary of Labor's
approval. That's a weakness in the legislation.

However, in this highly competitive labor market, employers have a strong
incentive to pay for skills -- whether workers are born in America or somewhere
else.

The H-1B program is a stopgap. Obviously, the long-term solution is to educate
young Americans so they can fill skilled technology jobs.

Here in Silicon Valley, high-tech leaders have launched education initiatives to
reform and strengthen our elementary, middle and high schools, hoping to grow
our own innovators and experts.

There are signs of hope: More students are taking algebra and geometry in high
school. In the colleges, computer science enrollments are rising after years of
decline.

Eventually, perhaps Silicon Valley won't need the rest of the world to write
software, develop products and design systems. But not before 2002.

And, probably, not for a long time after that.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial
The opinion of the Mercury News
H-1B Visas

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: JIM HUMMEL - MERCURY NEWS

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 27, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B VISAS WILL EASE SHORTAGE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 1033 words


FOR many reasons, including xenophobia and the legitimate insecurities of
American workers in the 1990s, the debate about the H-1B visa cap has generated
heated argument.

Whatever Congress decides, we are headed for hard times in high tech, and
consequently for the nation's economy as a whole. The amazing growth in the
high-tech sector over the last 10 years couldn't go on forever. It turns out
that the limiting factor for high-tech growth is people. There's a worldwide
shortage of people with the talent, skills and energy to turn ideas into
reality.

The shortage is large and growing fast. As computers proliferate, it's easier
and easier to come up with new ideas of neat things that lots of people would
pay money for. But every new idea has to be programmed and every program, from
e-commerce Web sites to cell-phone feature, has to be tested and maintained in
an ever-changing world.

Fifty thousand extra H-1B engineers a year are a drop in the bucket compared to
this shortfall. For a decade now, the high-tech sector has been stealing the
talent they need from every other sector of our economy and from every country
in the world. Over the next 10 years, the first generation of IT professionals
will have retired.

Changing our national attitudes about the value of these engineers to society is
a slow process, but in the long run, that's the only way to get children
interested in high-tech careers, and that's the only long-term solution to the
problem.

-- Avron Barr and Shirley Tessler
Co-Directors, Software Industry Study
Stanford Computer Industry Project
High-tech cave-in

I am dismayed that President Clinton has abandoned high-tech workers in the
United States by agreeing to allow a greater number of H-1B visas (Page 1A,
Sept. 24) so that companies can hire lower paid workers from overseas.

There is no shortage of high-tech workers (as claimed by the overpaid executives
of the high-tech companies), just a shortage of high-tech workers who will work
for substandard wages. Management screams about "free market" forces when it
comes to other expense items and the market works for them, but it demands
protective tariffs when the "free market" works against them.

Mostly, even more than the H-1B issue, I am saddened by the Democratic Party's
long, slow abandonment of historically pro-labor positions. As leader of the
Democratic party, I have watched Bill Clinton transform the party into
"Republican lite." That is Bill Clinton's disgrace.

-- Andrew Ogilvie
Boulder Creek
The problems with censure

IT was with considerable dismay that I read your editorial calling for censure
of President Clinton (Opinion, Sept. 24). There are two problems with this
suggestion, not even considering the partisan issues.

First, as you mention, there is no constitutional provision for censure, only
impeachment. Congress can do what they please, of course, but censure has no
weight in law or tradition.

The second problem is the question: For what shall they censure him? Offering
unhelpful legalistic answers to a hostile prosecutor? Being a politician and
responding with what he is expected to say? Perjury, subornation of perjury, and
obstruction of justice? If the latter can beproved, censure is too mild;
otherwise it is no more than a token of pious disapproval.

The worst statement of the editorial was that "Congress doesn't need evidentiary
hearings. The facts of the scandal are known." The main fact is that only Monica
Lewinsky and President Clinton were witnesses to the juicy stuff. She describes
what I would consider "sexual relations." He calls it "inappropriate behavior,"
and I have no way of knowing who is closer to the truth.

Let's get on with a full-blown impeachment, or else drop it -- which won't
happen in the present political climate. The damage is done, the country is
injured, and repair cannot be done by settling for less than complete legal
resolution.

-- Joe Cotey
Sunnyvale
Pursue impeachment

WASN'T it merely two weeks ago that you called for the president to do the right
thing and resign? Since the indication now is that he will not resign, you
people have decided that he must be rewarded for his self-concern with "the next
best way," a censure.

This is utter nonsense. Had President Nixon refused to resign, would you have
rewarded him in the same manner with a censure? I think not.

The Constitution provides a vehicle called impeachment. Let it run its course;
let the chips fall where they may. The country will be better served.

-- Charlie Jacob
San Jose
Starr's game

KENNETH Starr's gone too far. He has spent luxurious amounts of money, which he
should have to repay out of his own salary, and accomplished far more damage to
the presidency than what Clinton's done.

Sorry, Ken Starr, Pennsylvania Avenue is not yours. Do not pass go, do not
collect millions of dollars.

-- David Gulizia
San Jose
Stick to debate's facts

I understand that it is very likely that my political beliefs may bias my view
of last week's gubernatorial debate (Page 1A, Sept. 24). It obviously biased the
view of your reporters.

The article focused on an exchange that lasted a total of three minutes. The
overemphasis on what was a non-issue painted an unfair picture of Dan Lungren.

The fact that Gray Davis felt entitled to interrupt Lungren throughout the
debate, even during his closing remarks, was not mentioned. The fact that the
majority of Davis' remarks were negative and many times were vague was not
explored, either.

The statement that "Lungren never regained his footing" after the early exchange
with Davis was unfounded and casts doubt on the objectivity of your reporters. I
did not realize that it was the responsibility of a reporter to choose the
winner of a debate.

The purpose of the debate is to allow fair and equal time for both candidates to
voice their opinions. The purpose of the news media is to provide an impartial
review of the debate. Due to Davis' lack of respect for the debate forum, the
former purpose was not achieved. Thanks to the Mercury News' tradition of biased
journalism, the latter purpose was not achieved.

-- Carlo Cosenza
Woodside

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 1, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B VISAS HELP THE ECONOMY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 1001 words


THE proposal to increase H-1B visas (Opinion, Sept. 25) is a good solution to
the need for high-tech workers. It is beneficial both to the American economy
and skilled workers from overseas.

The argument that it will bring immigrants who may displace American workers
because they will work for less pay has no merit. I have many friends who are on
H-1B visas, but I never heard of anyone complaining that they are paid less or
mistreated. On the contrary, high-tech professionals be they H-1B visa holders
or American, are compensated much higher than their counterparts in other
disciplines because they are in demand.

Krishna Upadhya
Union City
The truth about H-1B

YOUR editorial (Opinion, Sept. 25) on H-1B visa workers hit the nail on the
head. These are some of the facts regarding this issue:

* The high-tech industry needs people familiar with the latest advances in the
software industry and technology.

* The high-tech industry, which has a very high employee turnover, needs people
to stay with them for some time without changing jobs.

* H-1B visa professionals are never complacent. They cannot afford to be; they
constantly keep improving on their knowledge base to remain marketable. And
through the very nature of their visa, they cannot think of jumping from one job
to another.

* No H-1B visa worker will work for very low pay and sacrifice benefits just for
the pleasure of working in this country. And similarly, no company will hire
people through the cumbersome H-1B hiring process just because they want to pay
a lower wage. Apart from salary, the company has to spend more on H-1B people.

-- Srilatha Rajamani
Fremont
Demanding false rights

IN discussing San Jose's proposed living wage law (Letters, Sept. 26), the
proponents keep talking about rights -- the right of the poor to food, shelter,
health care, education, and the like. The most fascinating aspect of this is
that none of these rights exists.

If one were to affirm that a person had the right to food, that means that
someone else has the duty to grow it. If the person cannot pay for that food,
then someone else would have the duty to supply the money. Such affirmative
rights (which are neither legal nor ethical) can only come at the expense of the
freedoms of other individuals.

The living wage law places taxpayers in servitude to city government and in
slavery to the poor.

Each supporter should ask him or herself the following question: "Would you
support a law that would allow the poor to walk into a bank and withdraw money
from anyone else's account, or would you support a law which would allow the
poor to walk into someone else's home and take whatever material goods they
chose?"

If the answer is yes, we are in serious trouble. If the answer is no, if poverty
does not provide a moral claim on the wealth earned by someone else, then why
would you support a law which makes government the agent in stealing wealth from
taxpayers to turn over to the poor?

The living wage law is another disastrous step toward socialism and away from
liberty for the individual.

-- Scott W. Peterson
San Jose
Three guilty men

WHO is guilty here? Is it Jeremy Strohmeyer, who physically killed Sherrice
Iverson? Is it his friend David Cash (Page 4B, Sept. 29), because he looked the
other way, or is it her father, who irresponsibly left Sherrice (a 7-year-old
child) inadequately attended in a casino at 2 o'clock in the morning?

I say they were all guilty, and the father should be getting the same attention
as Cash. All three should be held responsible, not just Strohmeyer.

-- Jeff Tuttle
San Jose
Reopen 'Dark Alliance'

A quick comparison of damage to the national security by government complicity
in the spread of cocaine availability and its ravages (see the Mercury News'
1996 "Dark Alliance" series and subsequent book by Gary Webb) versus President
Clinton's study hall antics make it clear that Webb's story deserved, and still
deserves, equal or better attention.

I've completed reading only a third of Webb's book, and I'm shocked by your
treatment of him and this story. Your arguments of inadequate evidence are
absurd, and, as if the book didn't carry enough weight on its own, the recent
edition of Esquire magazine (see the September issue, wherein a former and
highly respected Drug Enforcement Administration agent validates Webb's
contentions) should wake you from your slumbers.

The recent special insert regarding Clinton's porno escapades proves that the
Mercury News is capable of creating column inches for important matters when the
need arises.

The embers of this issue are still hot, and some truth blown in the right
direction could reignite the story and, in so doing, bring light into the dark
closet of American foreign policy actions and their domestic repercussions.

Redemption is yours to be had. Be brave and reopen the story.

-- Pat Nichols
San Jose
Don't belittle Bay Bridge

A recent article (Page 1B, Sept. 25, Alameda County edition) announced the
release of the draft environmental impact report that allows public review and
comment on the Bay Bridge. The very first sentence of the story predicted the
study's release would elicit "bickering." The dictionary defines bickering as
"petty squabbling."

Petty? The Bay Bridge is most important transportation link in the Bay Area. It
will serve, confine and define us for the next 50 years. Are you so cynical
about public involvement and the environmental review process that you label
outside input "petty" before it even happens?

One wonders if your reporters and editors are reflecting that they are bored
with the Bay Bridge story. Is the Monica story that much more interesting? Will
we even remember Monica 30 years from now when we are caught in traffic on the
new bridge or forced to stand in a loaded BART train crossing under the bridge
due to lack of any transit alternative?

-- Alan A. Hirsch
Editor, Bay Area
Transportation Newsletter
Sacramento

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 14, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN WORKER VISAS REVIVED BILL TO CLOSE LOOPHOLE ON LAWSUITS ALSO ALIVE

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Riding a months-long roller coaster worthy of the stock market, legislation to
allow more skilled foreign workers into the country appears to be back on track,
just days after it was widely presumed to have crashed.

Congressional and White House negotiators agreed Tuesday to include an expansion
of the H-1B visa program -- eagerly sought by the high-tech industry -- in the
huge budget bill still being crafted. That parliamentary maneuver is designed to
thwart one lawmaker: Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, who blocked the H-1B expansion
last Friday when it came up as a separate bill.

It was a good day for Silicon Valley in the nation's capital. High-tech
officials also celebrated the overwhelming passage in the Senate and House of
Representatives of the industry's other top legislative priority -- a bill to
curtail class-action lawsuits against companies that undergo wild price swings
in their stock prices.

And a key lawmaker said a third tech priority -- a moratorium on special
Internet taxes -- is likely to end up in the budget bill as well.

All three issues had been heading toward final approval just weeks ago, but each
got caught in political wrangling as Congress speeds toward adjournment. None,
however, has traveled a more perilous path than the H-1B bill, which has evaded
intense opposition from organized labor, a veto threat from President Clinton
and now the 11th-hour infighting of an experienced legislator.

Procedural tactic

Harkin blocked the bill by exercising a procedural prerogative that gives
immense power to lone senators in the waning days of a congressional session. He
cited the thousands of layoffs in the high-tech industry this year as proof that
a shortage of engineers and computer programmers no longer exists.

But tech lobbyists and congressional advocates insisted that the need for
skilled workers remains intense, and capitalized on strong bipartisan support to
attach the visa program to the so-called omnibus appropriations act.

"This is a big victory for the economy, which is being fueled in largepart by
our high-tech industries," said the bill's chief sponsor, Sen. Spencer Abraham,
R-Mich., in a written statement. "The legislation strikes the right balance in
safeguarding America's competitive edge and protecting U.S. jobs."

Still, the H-1B measure is not completely out of rough waters. The
appropriations bill could be derailed by several contentious issues that
negotiators have not yet agreed to, such as increased spending on school
construction. Or the H-1B clause could be axed from the bill with other attached
legislation during last-minute horse trading.

"While in a major budget negotiation, nothing is ever agreed to until everything
is agreed to, the prospects for inclusion are looking very positive," said Gene
Sperling, chairman of the White House National Economic Council. "The White
House, Senator Abraham and Senator (Barbara) Boxer have all pushed hard for
this, and it looks like a good bet at this time."

Support from Boxer

Boxer, who could use Silicon Valley votes in her tough re-election bid, lobbied
Democratic leaders in the Senate to agree to include the visa legislation in the
budget bill.

High-tech officials have been scrambling since Friday to get the visa
legislation to hitch a ride on that bill, which Congress must pass to avert a
government shutdown. It's the tech community's last chance to expand the visa
program until early in 1999, at which point all of the current allotment of H-1B
visas for this fiscal year likely will be used up.

Some high-tech industry lobbyists echoed Sperling's caution. But, they said,
they'd rather be in the volatile mix of the end-of-session appropriations battle
than be dead in the water.

"Nothing's done till it's done, but it's looking as good as it can," said Mary
Dee Beall, government affairs manager for Hewlett-Packard Co. Without an
increase in the number of visas, the annual cap of 65,000 will be allotted
within a few months during this fiscal year, which began Oct. 1. Last year, the
cap was met in May, leaving many companies unable to hire skilled workers from
abroad.

The legislation, which the House approved 288-133 on Sept. 24, would increase
the annual number of visas to 115,000 in 1999 and 2000, then to 107,500 in 2001
before reverting back to the current level in 2002. In addition, a $500 fee on
each visa granted will generate millions of dollars for worker training and
scholarships.

While supporters cited a recent study pegging the number of vacancies in the
information technology industry at 340,000, some organized labor critics said
there is no real shortage of workers. Last week, the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers-USA, which represents 220,000 engineers and computer
programmers, said thousands of layoffs in the high-tech industry have led to an
eightfold increase in the unemployment rate -- to 3.4 percent -- for electrical
engineers since the beginning of the year.

The securities lawsuit legislation, known as the Securities Litigation Uniform
Standards Act, closes a loophole in a 1995 law that made it tougher to file and
win shareholders' lawsuits in federal court. But the legislation had the effect
of pushing many suits into state courts, which had more lenient standards.

Federal jurisdiction

Under the act, which Clinton is expected to sign, all such suits would be sent
to federal court, where one standard would prevail.

"I think it's very important to have the uniform standards," said Rep. Anna
Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, who co-sponsored the legislation. "There was obviously a
circumvention (of the 1995 law), moving cases from the federal courts . . . into
state courts where the same standards didn't apply."

Reed Hastings, chief executive officer of TechNet, a Silicon Valley-based group
that lobbies for high-tech issues, said the legislation will help high-tech
companies thrive.

"It will create a stable legal environment so they can continue to take the bold
risks they've taken in terms of growing companies," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 25, 1999 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DAVIS CHALLENGES EXECUTIVES HIGH-TECH ASSIST SOUGHT FOR SCHOOLS

BYLINE: MICHAEL CRONK, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 694 words


Gov. Gray Davis challenged Silicon Valley high-tech executives Thursday to give
a little back to the state, urging them to hook schools to the Internet and
contribute to an education fund every time they hire a foreign employee under a
special visa program.

"I'm talking about partnership," said Davis, speaking to the board of the
Silicon Valley Manufacturing Group. "One of the values I'm trying to communicate
as governor is community. I'm talking about the ethic of giving back."

Davis said a major threat to the state's current prosperity is the deplorable
performance of too many of California's public schools.

"It is your duty in my judgment, given your expertise, to wire every school in
the state. It's really something you should do in the next four years," said
Davis. "I'd like to see a leveling of the playing field and one obvious way is
interactive technology that will excite young people."

The governor also said he supports tax exemptions for employer-paid graduate
school tuition but asked in return that companies create an education fund that
would help California train a high-tech workforce.

The governor proposed that companies donate to a special fund each time they
hire a foreign employee through the federal H-1B visa program, which allows
companies to hire skilled technical workers. "Long term, we'll be able to grow
our own," he said.

The group, which was meeting at Amdahl Corp.'s Sunnyvale headquarters, was
receptive.

"His challenge was both passionate and provocative," said Carl Guardino,
president and CEO of Silicon Valley Manufacturing Group, which represents 140
employers and tackles issues such as traffic, housing, education and the
environment.

"His suggestions came as a complete surprise, so while we certainly can't make a
commitment today, we will reach out to other business organizations throughout
the state to evaluate its potential," Guardino said.

Participation

David Wright, president and CEO of Amdahl, said high-tech industry involvement
in improving education in California is "not just a donation issue. It's a
participation issue.

"You can give teachers all the technology available today, but you have to train
them in how to use it."

He explained that many high-tech companies in Silicon Valley donate equipment
and allow their employees to work in the schools on company time.

A tax exemption for employees whose graduate education is paid for by their
employers is a key issue for the group, and members made that known to the
governor.

A bill by Assemblywoman Elaine Alquist, D-Santa Clara, and Assemblyman Jim
Cunneen, R-Campbell, would create a $5,250-a-year exemption for the next eight
years for students whose employers pay for their graduate school tuition.
Students must declare the tuition payment as income. The manufacturing group and
the American Electronics Association are sponsors of the bill.

Davis said he would support spending $10 million a year on such exemptions.

Davis also said $425 million in "one time" funding will be available for roads
and other infrastructure improvements around the state, and he stressed that it
would be used to pay for projects that will benefit California businesses.

"We're encouraged that the governor has on his plate a vision for infrastructure
investment in California that includes transportation and affordable housing,"
said Guardino. "That's important in an information-age economy."

Higher standards

Calling education his "first, second and third priority," Davis talked about
recently enacted legislation aimed at raising student performance, including an
intensive reading program, bonus incentives for teachers and an accountability
program focused on randomly selected schools from the bottom 50 percent in
student performance statewide. He said millions of dollars have been earmarked
for maintenance, increased student safety, and new books for schools.

"I want to challenge kids to do more than they thought they could do. I don't
want school to be comfortable or pleasant. I want it to be a rigorous and
challenging environment," he said. "I think we're off to a good start."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: PAUL SAKUMA -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Amdahl Corp. CEO David Wright, left, thanks Gov. Davis after the governor's talk
at Amdahl headquarters in Sunnyvale on Thursday.
[990625 LO 1B PE]
PHOTO: PAUL SAKUMA -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Davis came across as "passionate and provocative," said Carl Guardino, president
of Silicon Valley Manufacturing Group.
[990625 LO 4B PE]
PHOTO: Davis
Wants every school wired.
[990625 LO 1B]

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 139 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 26, 1999 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH-TECH VISAS STILL FALL SHORT H-1B INCREASE: CALLS TO ALLOW EVEN MORE FOREIGN
SKILLED WORKERS FACE SEVERAL OBSTACLES IN CONGRESS.

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1098 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After an exhaustive battle last year, Silicon Valley thought it had solved one
of its pressing problems by persuading Congress and the White House to nearly
double the number of visas granted to high-tech foreign workers over the next
three years.

But last week -- just eight months into fiscal 1999 -- all 115,000 of the
so-called H-1B visas in the new annual allotment had been issued. Although more
than 42,000 applications are still pending before the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, no new visas can be granted until the next fiscal year
begins in October.

So for the second straight year, high-tech companies that want to hire engineers
and other highly skilled foreign workers from countries such as India must wait
months to fill those key openings. Such waits in the fast-paced high-tech
industry can cause delays in development of new products, companies say. That,
in turn, can prevent a company from making additional American hires, which
further hits the local economy.

"Everybody knows when that cap is hit, and that just puts further restrictions
on an already extremely tight labor force, and that means it's even harder to
get the people you need," said Dan Burton, vice president for government
relations with Novell Inc.

This year's cap was reached June 15, while last year, the 65,000 allocation was
reached May 11. And the unexpectedly fast distribution of the expanded number of
visas this year has two influential Republican members of Congress planning to
propose nearly doubling the number of visas again -- this time to about 200,000
a year. And this time permanently. The current expansion of the program will
ratchet down to 107,500 visas in 2001 before reverting back to the 65,000 level
in 2002.

Executive doubt

But high-tech executives aren't sure they can muster the political might again
to push a visa increase through Congress and the White House this year,
especially after expending a lot of energy and political capital on pending
Y2K-liability legislation and the loosening of export controls on computers.
Indeed, one of the main backers of last year's visa increase, Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, has charged that the Clinton administration is not maximizing the
number of available visas because it has failed to address an increase in fraud
within the system.

A recent INS and State Department investigation of 3,200 H-1B visas issued by
the U.S. Consulate in Madras (also called Chennai), India -- where 15,000 such
visas were issued in 1998 -- found that 21 percent were fraudulent and 45
percent couldn't be authenticated, Smith said.

Strategy session

A coalition of high-tech executives plans to meet in Washington on Tuesday to
discuss how to solve the overall visa problem.

"Clearly, if we thought we could get an increase in the limit, that's the way
we'll go," said Mary Dee Beall, government-affairs manager for Hewlett-Packard
Co. "Politically, we think it's probably pretty difficult."

Instead of focusing on another quick-fix increase, the industry might try to
push for a comprehensive overhaul of the visa program next year, said Jenifer
Eisen, manager of government affairs for Intel Corp.

"Just adjusting arbitrary numbers is not the best road to take," she said,
noting the industry is in the same position this year that it was in last year.

In fact, last year's problems contributed to this year's situation, Eisen said.
Roughly 30,000 visa applications stacked up at the INS after the cap was reached
in spring of 1998, leading to a large number of visas being issued last fall. In
addition, many companies applied for visas early in the 1999 fiscal year, which
began Oct. 1, to avoid getting shut out if the cap was reached again.

"Employers were not going to get caught in the same situation," she said. "The
number that was magically derived by the powers that be may very well have been
enough if we didn't have a backlog and people filed as they normally would have
filed."

Silicon Valley says the H-1B program is crucial to filling specialty jobsin a
tight labor market. A study last year estimated there were 340,000 vacancies in
the information-technology industry, and the high-tech industry says filling
such vacancies is crucial to America's economic health. The visas are for three
years, and may be extended for another three years.

But critics, including an organization representing American engineers and
computer programmers, say there is no real shortage of workers. They note that
high-tech companies have laid off engineers and say that those firms prefer to
hire foreigners because they are paid less and because employees become beholden
to the companies that obtained the visas.

White House leverage

The Clinton administration tried to address some of those concerns in last
year's legislation, using a veto threat to insert several provisions.

Companies now must pay $500 for each visa, for example, with the money funding
training and scholarship programs for American students and workers. The Labor
Department also was to enact regulations forcing some companies to attest they
did not lay off American workers to create the vacancies for the foreign
workers, and the National Research Council was to do a study of supply and
demand in the information-technology job market.

Such provisions haven't been given a chance to work, said Paul Kostek, president
of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA, which represents
220,000 engineers and computer programmers. The Labor Department regulations,
for example, haven't even gone into effect yet, and the study has not begun, he
said.

"No one's had a chance to make the system work under the legislation passed less
than a year ago," Kostek said. "To go off and say let's jump the number again is
very premature."

Higher proposal

But that's exactly what Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said earlier this month in a
speech at Texas Instruments headquarters in Dallas. Gramm is drafting
legislation, called the "New Workers for Economic Growth Act," that would
increase the annual number of visas permanently to about 200,000 a year, a
representative said. Rep. David Dreier, R-Covina, is working with Gramm on a
similar measure to be introduced in the House of Representatives.

White House officials could not be reached for comment Friday on such
legislation.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
H-1B VISAS ISSUED EACH FISCAL YEAR
[Chart not in database]
Source: INS
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
WHERE THEY COME FROM
[Chart not in database]
Source: INS

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charts (2)

                     Copyright 1999 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
