
                               1 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

Arizona to appeal immigration law to justices

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 972 words


PHOENIX - Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer announced Monday that she will ask the U.S.
Supreme Court to overturn a ruling that put the most controversial parts of the
state's immigration enforcement law on hold.

The planned appeal to the high court comes after Brewer lost an initial appeal
April 11, when a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
refused to reverse a lower court's order that prevented key parts of the law
from being enforced.

Attorney General Tom Horne said going directly to the Supreme Court and skipping
a possible second appeal to the 9th Circuit will save time in resolving the
case, while Brewer said she is confident "Arizona will prevail in its fight to
protect its citizens."

The state must file the appeal by a July 11 deadline, the two Republican elected
officials said. The Supreme Court has discretion on whether to hear the appeal
on the lower court's order.

Endeavour launch set next Monday

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. - NASA will try again next Monday to launch Endeavour on
the next-to-last space shuttle flight, after replacing a switch box and plugging
in new electrical wiring.

It will be the second attempt to send Endeavour on its final voyage with the
astronaut husband of wounded Rep. Gabrielle Giffords.

On April 29, a string of heaters failed to turn on during the final hours of the
countdown, and the launch was called off. The trouble was traced to a switch box
in Endeavour's engine compartment; a blown fuse was discovered inside.

Gastric bypass tied to alcoholism risk

LOS ANGELES - Gastric bypass surgery for weight loss doubles the risk of
developing alcoholism compared with Lap-Band surgery, researchers said Monday.

Researchers already knew that bypass surgery allows the body to absorb alcohol
more quickly, but the new findings, reported at the Digestive Diseases Week
meeting in Chicago, are the first to suggest an increased risk of problems
associated with the effect.

Dr. Magdalena Plecka Ostlund of the Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm and her
colleagues examined medical records for 12,277 patients who underwent bariatric
surgery in Sweden between 1980 and 2006. The patients had a mean age of just
under 40; three-quarters of them were female. The team compared them with
122,770 carefully matched healthy controls in the general population.

Before their surgery, the obese patients were significantly more likely than
those in the general population to be treated for psychosis, depression,
attempted suicide and alcoholism. After the surgery, the risks of the various
disorders remained higher than normal, with the exception of psychosis, Ostlund
said.

Texas Senate OKs guns on campuses

AUSTIN, Texas - Texas senators have voted to allow concealed handgun license
holders to carry their weapons into public college classrooms. Monday's vote is
a major push on an issue that has stalled in the Senate and House despite
overwhelming support from lawmakers in the GOP-dominated Legislature.

Sen. Jeff Wentworth, R-San Antonio, had been unable to muster the votes he
needed under Senate rules to pass the issue as its own bill. After several
failed attempts, Monday's vote tacked the measure onto a universities spending
bill. Supporters call it a critical self-defense measure and gun rights issue.
Opponents worry concealed handguns could lead to more campus violence and
suicide.

Study notes cancer trends among gays

LOS ANGELES - Gay men are about twice as likely to be cancer survivors as
straight men. Lesbian and bisexual women who are cancer survivors are more than
twice as likely to report fair or poor health than heterosexual women who have
survived cancer.

These discoveries, among others about gay, lesbian and bisexual cancer
survivors, were published online Monday by the journal Cancer.

Researchers at the Boston University School of Public Health pored over
California health survey data to learn more about gay, lesbian and bisexual
cancer survivors in the U.S. - a group not tracked by the public agencies that
report cancer cases.

They found significant differences between those groups and heterosexual cancer
survivors.

Colon cancer tests might be too high

CHICAGO - Many older Americans get repeat colon cancer tests they don't need,
and Medicare is paying for it, suggests a study that spotlights unnecessary
risks to the elderly and a waste of money.

Almost half the Medicare patients had had a colonoscopy less than seven years
after getting normal results from an earlier test. The test is recommended every
10 years, starting at age 50, for people at average risk whose initial test is
normal.

The study showed that among those 80 and older, one-third had a repeat exam
within seven years of the previous colonoscopy. That's an age group that can
skip the test altogether if no problems have been spotted before.

After controversy, sex class dropped

CHICAGO - Northwestern University will not offer a controversial human sexuality
class next academic year after a controversy erupted over a live sex-toy
demonstration in an after-class presentation earlier this year.

Psychology professor J. Michael Bailey will not teach his popular class next
year and there is no other faculty member qualified to teach the subject,
psychology chair Dan McAdams said Monday.

Coastal nuke plant to be fortified

TOKYO - A Japanese utility agreed Monday to shutter three nuclear reactors at a
coastal power plant while it builds a seawall and improves other tsunami
defenses there.

Chubu Electric Power Co. acted at a special board meeting after Prime Minister
Naoto Kan requested the temporary shutdown at the Hamaoka plant amid concerns an
earthquake magnitude 8.0 or higher could strike the central Japanese region
sometime within 30 years.

The decision came after evaluating Japan's 54 reactors for quake and tsunami
vulnerability after the March 11 disasters.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday

Ross Douthat: Trust but e-verify

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 846 words


The Arizona immigration law was controversial from the beginning. Critics said
it was ripe for abuse, implicitly discriminatory and probably unconstitutional
as well. Business groups and liberal activists joined forces to oppose it.

But now that it has been implemented, it might just be a model for nationwide
reform.

No, I'm not talking about the Arizona law that empowers local police to check
the immigration status of anyone they detain, which generated a wave of boycotts
and a surfeit of Gestapo analogies last spring.

I mean the 2007 Arizona law requiring businesses to confirm their employees'
legal status with the federal E-Verify database, which was upheld last week in a
5-3 decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.

The E-Verify law was never as polarizing as last year's police-powers
legislation, but it still attracted plenty of opposition. Arizona business
interests called it unfair and draconian. (An employer's business license is
suspended for the first offense and revoked for the second.) Civil liberties
groups argued that the E-Verify database's error rate is unacceptably high, and
that the law creates a presumptive bias against hiring Hispanics.

If these arguments sound familiar, it's because similar critiques are always
leveled against any attempt to actually enforce America's immigration laws. From
the border to the workplace, immigration enforcement is invariably depicted as
terribly harsh, hopelessly expensive and probably racist into the bargain.

Not to mention counterproductive: Advocates for "comprehensive" reform, the holy
grail of liberal Democrats and moderate Republicans alike, have long implied
that it's essentially impossible to prevent illegal immigrants from finding
their way to eager employers. Instead, they argue, we have no choice but to
ratify the status quo - i.e., mass low-skilled immigration from Mexico and
Central America - by creating a vast new guest-worker program and offering
citizenship to illegal immigrants already here.

So far, though, Arizona's E-Verify law seems to be providing a strong
counterpoint to this counsel of despair.

According to a recent study from the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of
California, the legislation reduced Arizona's population of working-age illegal
immigrants by about 17 percent, or roughly 92,000 people, in just a single year.
(This effect was entirely distinct from the Great Recession's broader impact on
immigration, the study argues.) And the swift attrition was mainly achieved
through voluntary compliance: The number of employers who prosecuted under the
law can be counted on one hand.

These results suggest that maybe - just maybe - America's immigration rate isn't
determined by forces beyond any lawmaker's control. Maybe public policy can make
a difference after all. Maybe we could have an immigration system that looked as
if it were designed on purpose, not embraced in a fit of absence of mind.

At least in the short term, there's no good reason for such a system to include
any kind of amnesty. This was a dubious idea even during the last decade's
economic boom. It would be folly (and a political nonstarter) in this economic
climate, which has left Americans without high school diplomas (who tend to lose
out from low-skilled immigration) facing a 15 percent unemployment rate.

But eschewing amnesty doesn't require shutting down immigration. Quite the
opposite: With increased enforcement (to date, only a few states have
Arizona-style E-Verify laws on the books, though the Obama White House seems to
be stepping up prosecutions of employers), the United States could welcome as
many immigrants as we do today. But instead of shrugging as low-skilled workers
jump the border to compete with the struggling American working class, our
immigration policy should focus on recruiting well-educated migrants, opening
the door to greater legal immigration from Asia, Africa and Europe.

As it happens, a system along these lines exists right now - in Canada. A recent
report from the Manhattan Institute found that the United States still
assimilates immigrants more successfully than many Western European countries.
But culturally and economically, we lag well behind our northern neighbor when
it comes to integrating new arrivals.

In part, this is because Canada fast-tracks immigrants to citizenship. But it's
also because Canada does more to recruit highly educated emigres than the United
States - and the Dominion's more international, geographically diverse immigrant
population probably discourages balkanization and self-segregation. (No single
country or region dominates Canada's immigration numbers to the extent that
Mexico and the rest of Latin America dominate immigration to the United States.)

The result is a system that welcomes newcomers but serves the national interest
as well. America isn't close to that sweet spot at the moment, but it's what we
should be aiming for. By learning from Arizona, and becoming more like Canada,
we might finally have an immigration policy worthy of the USA.

Ross Douthat writes a column for the New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 17, 2012 Monday

Arizona immigration law can be enforced

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1197 words


PHOENIX -- A judge in Arizona ruled Tuesday, Sept. 18, that police can
immediately start enforcing the most contentious section of the state's
immigration law, marking the first time officers can carry out the so-called
"show me your papers" provision.

The decision by U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton is the latest milestone in a
two-year legal battle over the requirement. It culminated in a U.S. Supreme
Court decision in June that upheld the provision on the grounds that it doesn't
conflict with federal law.

Opponents responded to the Supreme Court decision by asking Bolton to block the
requirement on different grounds, arguing that it would lead to systematic
racial profiling and unreasonably long detentions of Latinos if it's enforced.
She said early this month she wouldn't block it and gave the go-ahead Tuesday
for the law to take effect.

The section of the law requires that officers, while enforcing other laws,
question the immigration status of those suspected of being in the country
illegally.

Pa. voter ID law back in lower court

HARRISBURG, Pa. -- Pennsylvania's highest court on Tuesday told a lower court
that it should stop a tough new voter photo identification law from taking
effect in this year's presidential election if the judge concludes voters cannot
easily get ID cards or thinks they will be disenfranchised.

The 4-2 decision by the state Supreme Court sends the case back to the lower
Commonwealth Court, where a judge initially ruled in August that the divisive
law could go forward. The high court asked for an opinion by Oct. 2 -- just 35
days before the election.

If the judge finds there will be no voter disenfranchisement and that IDs are
easily obtained, then the 6-month-old law can stand, the Supreme Court said.

2 women get their mothers' uteruses

STOCKHOLM -- Two Swedish women are hoping to get pregnant after undergoing what
doctors are calling the world's first mother-to-daughter uterus transplants.

Specialists at the University of Goteborg said they performed the surgery over
the weekend without complications but added that they won't consider it
successful unless the women give birth to healthy children.

The unidentified women, both in their 30s, will undergo a year of observation
before doctors attempt to help them get pregnant via in vitro fertilization, in
which embryos created with eggs from their own ovaries will be implanted in
their wombs.

Court reverses election ad ruling

WASHINGTON -- An appeals court on Tuesday reversed a lower court ruling that
likely would have led to greater disclosure of who is paying for certain
election ads.

In March, U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson ruled that the Federal Election
Commission overstepped its bounds in allowing groups that fund certain election
ads to keep their financiers anonymous.

But Tuesday's unanimous ruling by a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia sent the case back to Jackson, with
instructions to refer the matter to the FEC for further consideration.

At issue are electioneering communications -- ads that don't expressly advocate
voting for or against a candidate running for federal office.

China may go easy on ex-police chief

CHENGDU, China -- China signaled Tuesday it will be lenient with a former police
chief enmeshed in a political scandal roiling the country's leadership, saying
he cooperated with investigators who brought down a top Chinese politician's
wife for the murder of a British businessman.

Tuesday's conclusion of Wang Lijun's trial brings Chinese leaders a step closer
to resolving a scandal that exposed seamy infighting and buffeted a delicate
transfer of power to new leaders expected to take place in coming weeks. Wang
sparked the turbulent affair with a dramatic flight to the U.S. Consulate in
Chengdu in February where he divulged information about the murder, resulting in
the removal of his boss, Bo Xilai, once a political high-flier vying for a top
job.

In summarizing the two-day trial, a spokesman for the Intermediate People's
Court in Chengdu city said prosecutors noted that Wang's surrender to
authorities and ultimate cooperation may merit lighter punishment.

Army tests armor for female soldiers

FORT CAMPBELL, Ky. -- Female soldiers from Fort Campbell deploying to
Afghanistan will field the first Army body armor that is shorter and better
tailored to fit women's physiques.

Members of a female engagement team from the 101st Airborne Division, who will
be directly interacting with Afghan women during the upcoming deployment, have
been equipped with the female prototypes of the newest generation of Army
tactical vests.

After a lot of testing and measurements, the Army came up with a vest that is
shorter to accommodate smaller torsos and have tailoring to fit closer to
women's chests. The new vest eliminates gaps between the material and the body
and can be fitted with smaller side ballistic inserts for small waist sizes.

USAID ending its Russian operations

WASHINGTON -- The United States said Tuesday it is ending the U.S. Agency for
International Development's operations in Russia after a Kremlin demand that the
aid organization leave the country, dealing a blow to President Barack Obama's
policy of "resetting" relations between Washington and Moscow.

State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters that Russia sent a
letter last week saying it didn't need Washington's help anymore. She didn't
cite a reason for the closure, but President Vladimir Putin has long complained
about U.S. democracy and human rights promotion efforts.

The aid agency has worked in Russia since the Soviet Union's collapse 20 years
ago, promoting what it says is "a more open and innovative society and a
strengthened partnership between Russia and the United States" and spending some
$2.7 billion. It planned $50 million in programs this year.

England stunned by 2 officers' slayings

LONDON -- Two unarmed officers were gunned down by a wanted fugitive in the
Manchester area of northern England on Tuesday, police said. The dramatic
shooting shocked the country.

Chief Constable Peter Fahy told a news conference that Fiona Bone -- a
32-year-old who was planning her wedding -- and Nicola Hughes, 23, died shortly
after the gunman opened fire and set off a grenade in Hattersley, a suburban
area about 10 miles from central Manchester.

The man alleged to have carried out the killings, 29-year-old Dale Cregan,
surrendered at a local police station shortly after the incident and was booked
on suspicion of murder. Cregan had already been the focus of an intense police
manhunt as a suspect in two murders last month.

S. African miners end 5-week strike

MOOINOOI, South Africa -- Striking platinum miners in South Africa have signed a
wage deal ending a bloody 5-week strike at the Lonmin PLC mine that had spread
to the gold and chrome sectors of the industry which anchors the economy of
Africa's richest economy.

The agreement for the company's 28,000 miners ends a strike with political and
economic repercussions, but does not resolve rage engendered by the country's
huge inequality and the government's failure to address massive unemployment and
poverty.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 18, 2012 Tuesday

Texas town's rental ban gets second hearing

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KUNZELMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 588 words


NEW ORLEANS A Dallas suburb asked a federal appeals court Wednesday to uphold an
ordinance that would ban illegal immigrants from renting homes in the town.

The full 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed to rehear the case after a
three-judge panel from the court ruled in March that Farmers Branch's ordinance
is unconstitutional and impermissibly interferes with the federal immigration
system.

The court's 15 judges didn't indicate when they would rule after hearing
arguments Wednesday from attorneys for the town and a group of landlords and
tenants who sued to block the ordinance's enforcement.

Arguments largely focused on how the case is affected by a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in June on Arizona's tough immigration law. That ruling rejected major
parts of the law, but upheld the so-called "show me your papers" requirement,
which gives law enforcement authority to check a person's legal status if
officers have reasonable suspicion he or she is in the U.S. illegally.

Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, a national advocate for tougher illegal
immigration laws who is also representing Farmers Branch, said that provision of
the Arizona law closely mirrors a key portion of the Texas town's ordinance.

"The problem with the plaintiffs' argument is that they cannot identify a single
federal statute that the Farmers Branch ordinance conflicts with," he said.

The ordinance, which replaced an earlier 2006 version, would require all renters
to obtain a $5 city license and fill out an application that asks about their
legal status. Then, the city's building inspector would have to check whether
any immigrant applying for a license was in the United States legally. Illegal
immigrants would be denied a permit, and landlords who knowingly allow illegal
immigrants to stay as tenants could be fined or have their renters' license
barred.

Kobach said the ordinance explicitly bars the town from making its own
determination about whether someone is "lawfully present" in the U.S.

"It must always be done by the federal government," he said.

"It's a yes or no from the federal government, correct?" asked Judge Jennifer
Elrod, who heard the case last year but issued a dissenting opinion.

"Correct," Kobach responded.

But plaintiffs' attorney Nina Perales said the information federal officials
provide the building inspector is "very complex and varied" and doesn't
explicitly state whether an applicant is "lawfully present" in the country.

"That's something that the building inspector is going to have to figure out for
himself," Perales said.

Fellow plaintiffs' attorney Dunham Biles added: "No one other than the federal
government has the authority to classify aliens."

Perales said the city's ordinance goes far beyond the Arizona law, forcibly
removing illegal immigrants from rental housing instead of merely detaining them
and letting the federal government decide whether to remove them from the
country.

"This is a complete divergence from the federal system," she said.

A federal district judge ruled against the city in 2010 before the three-judge
panel at the 5th Circuit upheld it earlier this year.

The full 5th Circuit is generally considered to be one of the nation's most
conservative federal courts. Its decision to hear the Farmers Branch case is
rare fewer than 5 percent of petitions for a full court hearing are granted
though the court rehearing a case doesn't necessarily mean judges intend to
reverse an earlier decision.


Associated Press writer Nomaan Merchant in Dallas contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday

Court blocks parts of Alabama immigration law

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1065 words


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. - In a blow to Alabama's toughest-in-the-nation immigration
law, a federal appeals court sided with the Obama administration Friday when it
blocked public schools from checking the immigration status of students.

The decision from the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals also said police can't
charge immigrants who are unable to prove their citizenship, but it let some of
the law stand, giving supporters a partial victory. The decision was only
temporary and a final ruling wasn't expected for months, after judges can review
more arguments.

Unlike crackdowns in other states, Alabama's law was left largely in effect for
about three weeks, long enough to frighten Hispanics and drive them away from
the state. Construction businesses said Hispanic workers had quit showing up for
jobs and schools reported that Latino students stopped coming to class.

Obama, S. Korean leader tout Detroit

ORION TOWNSHIP, Mich. - President Barack Obama cast himself as a savior of the
U.S. auto industry Friday, standing in a once-shuttered Michigan assembly plant
with the president of South Korea to boast of a new trade deal and the auto
bailout he pushed through Congress. "The investment paid off," Obama declared.

At his side, South Korea's President Lee Myung-bak donned a Detroit Tigers cap
to assure U.S. autoworkers that the new U.S.-South Korea trade pact wouldn't
steal away U.S. jobs. "This is the pledge that I give you," said Lee,
acknowledging the suspicion with which U.S. labor unions view trade agreements.

Prosecutor details massacre at salon

SANTA ANA, Calif. - The Orange County district attorney's office announced
Friday it will pursue the death penalty against a revenge-bent man accused of
killing his ex-wife and seven others in a two-minute spasm of bloodshed at a
crowded Southern California salon.

At a news conference Friday, District Attorney Tony Rackauckas - at times
struggling to remain composed - announced the filing of special-circumstance
murder charges against Scott Dekraai, 41, accused of carrying out the mass
killing Wednesday at Salon Meritage in Seal Beach.

Dekraai wore a bulletproof vest and had three guns - he used at least two - when
he carried out the rampage, Rackauckas said.

The alleged motive stems from a bitter custody battle between Dekraai and his
ex-wife, Michelle Marie Fournier, 48, one of the victims. Dekraai and Fournier's
8-year-old son was at the center of an ongoing custody fight. Fournier, a
stylist at Salon Meritage, was one of the first to die in the hail of bullets.

Government hits $1.3 trillion deficit

WASHINGTON - The government ran a $1.3 trillion deficit for the budget year that
ended last month, the third straight year it has operated more than $1 trillion
in the red.

The 2011 budget deficit was the second highest on record. It's slightly ahead of
the previous budget year's $1.29 trillion deficit but below the $1.41 trillion
imbalance record in 2009.

A decade ago, the government was running surpluses and trillion-dollar deficits
seemed unimaginable. But those deficits now loom over tense negotiations in
Washington. Lawmakers are under pressure to agree by Thanksgiving on where they
can cut $1.2 trillion over the next decade. If they cannot, automatic cuts to
Medicare, defense spending and other critical areas of the budget would go into
effect in January 2013.

LaHood accuses GOP of sabotage

WASHINGTON - Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, the most prominent Republican
in President Barack Obama's administration, accused GOP House members Friday of
putting their hope for the president to fail ahead of working toward solving the
nation's problems.

Responding to a question about why it was so difficult to get big infrastructure
projects built right now, LaHood told a transportation conference that "some
people don't want Obama to be successful."

"A big percentage of the Republicans that were elected this time came here to do
zero, and that's what they've done," he said.

Plane will evacuate South Pole worker

A cargo plane that will evacuate a sick engineer from the South Pole arrived
Friday at a base in Antarctica.

The plane flew from Chile to Britain's Rothera Base on Friday afternoon, the
National Science Foundation said. It will go to the foundation's South Pole
research station today to pick up Renee-Nicole Douceur and take her first to the
foundation's McMurdo station in Antarctica and then on to New Zealand.

Douceur, 58, asked for an earlier emergency evacuation after having what doctors
believed was a stroke in August. Doctors she contacted for a second opinion say
a tumor may have caused her medical problems.

House loosens rules on power plant ash

WASHINGTON - House Republicans pushed through legislation Friday that gives the
states the power to regulate coal ash from power plants as if it were municipal
garbage, pre-empting pending federal regulations that could be much tougher.

The vote on coal ash disposal was the latest of several passed by the
GOP-controlled House that would shift authority away from the Environmental
Protection Agency and reduce federal regulations that Republicans say are
burdensome, hamper economic growth and cost jobs.

Scandal claims UK defense minister

LONDON - Britain's defense minister Liam Fox quit his post Friday after days of
allegations about the influence-peddling of a close personal friend who joined
key visits overseas and posed as an unofficial aide.

Fox acknowledged he had blurred the lines of his professional and private lives
in allowing Adam Werritty, who had previously worked as a defense lobbyist, to
organize meetings and join him during 18 trips overseas.

A government inquiry into the case will continue to investigate whether Werritty
used his access and friendship with Fox for personal gain, or on behalf of
others seeking to win favor or contracts with Britain.

House from 'Up' built as re-creation

SALT LAKE CITY - The suburban Salt Lake County city of Herriman says it's seeing
a surge of visitors after a replica of the house in the Disney/Pixar movie "Up"
opened to widespread publicity.

An estimated 27,000 visitors have come to Herriman since the vibrant
green-and-pink house opened this summer. One of the home's builders, contractor
Blair Bangerter, said about 1,000 people visit the home each week.

The 2,800-square-foot, four-bedroom home is a precision re-creation of the house
in the 2009 movie.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              April 4, 2011 Monday

Tamar Jacoby: The Utah path to immigration reform

BYLINE: By Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 1025 words


Among immigration reform advocates, it's an article of faith: Only the federal
government, not the states, can fix the immigration system. These reformers
aren't wrong. Ultimately, only Washington can control the nation's borders or
set standards for citizenship, and a patchwork of 50 different laws dealing with
illegal immigrants isn't likely to work for anyone.

But it has now been 10 years -- 10 years! -- since President George W. Bush
first promised to make immigration reform a priority in Washington. Bush has
come and gone. Congress has tried and failed. A new president has come into
office, and promised and failed. So maybe it's time to try a different approach,
if only to break the logjam.

The state of Utah showed the way last month, passing a package of three
immigration bills that cover all three bases most reform advocates agree need to
be covered by any fix: tougher enforcement, a guest-worker program to meet the
state's labor needs and an answer -- fines and work permits -- for the
unauthorized immigrants already living and working in Utah.

The package isn't perfect. It probably isn't constitutional. The Constitution's
supremacy clause plus 200 years of lawmaking are thought to reserve immigration
policymaking for the feds. Certainly, that's how the courts have ruled for
decades -- an approach likely to be upheld, perhaps with some loopholes, when
the Supreme Court considers the matter this spring.

And the Utah package won't necessarily solve the state's immigration problems.
It's hard to see how a standalone state guest-worker program can be effective
without federal cooperation; only the feds can issue visas, after all. And
Utah's plan to register unauthorized immigrants is explicitly conditioned on
getting a "waiver" from Washington. But no waiver exists, and the Obama
administration may not want to invent one. Although the administration supports
legalization for illegal immigrants, it also believes that Congress, not Utah,
should make immigration law.

Still, when the approach you're trying doesn't work, and nothing budges no
matter what you do, sometimes you've got to try something else -- even if it
isn't perfect or constitutional.

In the early decades of the republic, states had more leeway, and many passed
their own naturalization laws, deciding who could and could not become a
citizen. But by the end of the 19th century, states were out of the immigration
game -- until 2006, when Congress left a vacuum by failing to pass comprehensive
reform and states across the country stepped in to fill it.

Most of these laws were enforcement measures driven by populist politicians and
angry voters who hoped they could make life so miserable for illegal immigrants
that they would eventually pack up and leave -- a theory known as attrition
through enforcement.

The first bills focused on making it hard to rent an apartment and get a
driver's license. A second round zeroed in on employers, requiring new worksite
background checks and imposing stiff penalties for hiring illegal immigrants.
The latest trend, initiated by Arizona's controversial SB 1070, is to require
state and local police to take immigration into their own hands, inquiring about
the status of people they stop or arrest for other reasons.

Critics of these laws are surely right: We can't solve the problem of
immigration with enforcement alone. Most illegal immigrants are not going to
leave the U.S. voluntarily. And just cracking down will do nothing to fix the
legal immigration system; it won't help the country fill labor needs at the top
or the bottom of the economy. But this is where Utah and its three-part package
comes in, reaching beyond enforcement toward a more complete solution.

Most immigration reform advocates take a dim view of the Utah breakthrough; for
them, the constitutional argument trumps everything.

But what if Utah were to become a national model? What if an array of other
states passed balanced bills that combined enforcement with worker visas and an
answer for unauthorized immigrants? What if California and New York and Illinois
-- states likely to pass liberal rather than conservative immigration measures
-- were to get in on the act?

Of course, in the long run, this would be unworkable. You'd have immigrants who
were legal in one place but illegal as soon as they crossed a state line.
National and even regional companies would flounder while they tried to navigate
divergent laws. This is why the republic developed a strong central government
-- to impose some measure of consistency on the states and avoid a crazy-quilt
pattern of rules.

But that's the long run. In the short run, a crop of state bills would send a
powerful signal to Washington. Utah already has -- a shot resonating from coast
to coast. One of the most conservative states in the nation, after all, voted to
do what Democrats and Republicans in Congress have not done: register and
regularize illegal immigrants. Enterprising lawmakers in other states might come
up with fresh ideas Washington hasn't thought of. And eventually, if enough
states joined in, they would create a situation so intolerable that even
Washington couldn't ignore it. Hard as it is to imagine, Congress would have to
act.

There's a precedent for this, albeit one not quite as unruly as a wildfire
states' revolt. In the late 1980s, a national consensus emerged: Welfare as we
knew it was broken. But Democrats and Republicans differed sharply about what
reform should look like, and the national debate stalled. Then, in 1987,
Republican Gov. Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin stepped into the breach, requesting
a waiver from federal welfare law in order to conduct a state experiment. Within
a few years, Congress was debating a bill modeled on Wisconsin's approach, and
in 1996, President Clinton signed welfare reform into law.

Wisconsin then, Utah now? Anyone who wants to fix immigration can only hope so.
The status quo is intolerable, and we need a way out of the box.

Tamar Jacoby is president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a national federation of
small-business owners advocating immigration reform. She wrote this column for
the Los Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday

Briefing: U.S. teen accused of assassination in Mexico

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1065 words


CUERNAVACA, Mexico -- Mexican prosecutors have filed homicide charges against a
14-year-old U.S. citizen who allegedly acted as an assassin for a drug cartel.
Authorities say Edgar Jimenez Lugo confessed to killing four people whose
beheaded bodies were hung from a bridge in Cuernavaca, a central colonial city
that is popular with Mexican and international tourists alike and is known for
its yearlong springlike climate.

Jimenez has been charged with the homicides and other crimes, including arms
possession and transporting cocaine, prosecutors from Morelos state, where
Cuernavaca is located, said in a statement late Wednesday.

Because he was charged as a juvenile, he faces a maximum three years in
prison.Countersuit filed over immigration

PHOENIX -- Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer filed a counter-lawsuit against the federal
government Thursday for failing to control the border and enforce immigration
laws, and for sticking the state with huge costs for jailing illegal immigrants
who commit crimes.

Brewer filed the countersuit in the federal government's legal challenge to
Arizona's new immigration enforcement law. The federal government is seeking to
invalidate the law.

"Our border remains a dangerous place," Brewer said in announcing the
countersuit.

A spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Arizona said the complaint is
under review. The law was passed amid years of complaints that the federal
government hasn't done enough to lessen the state's role as the nation's busiest
illegal entry point. Priests accused of abuse, cover-up

PHILADELPHIA -- A grand jury Thursday accused the Archdiocese of Philadelphia of
failing to stop the sexual abuse of children more than five years after a grand
jury report documented abuse by more than 50 priests.

The new report said a senior church official charged with investigating
allegations of sexual abuse by priests had in fact allowed some of those accused
to remain in posts that gave them continued access to children.

It charged him with endangering the welfare of minors and accused three priests
and a teacher of raping two boys between 1996 and 1999.

At least 37 priests who are subject to "substantial evidence of abuse" are still
in roles that bring them into contact with children, the new report said, and 10
of those have been in place since before 2005, when the last grand jury made its
allegations.

Cardinal Justin Rigali, the archbishop of Philadelphia, rejected the report's
assertion that there were active priests who had been credibly accused of abuse.

"I assure all the faithful that there are no archdiocesan priests in ministry
today who have an admitted or established allegation of sexual abuse of a minor
against them," he said.Pakistan might be building nuke site

WASHINGTON -- An independent expert says Pakistan has begun building what
appears to be its fourth plutonium reactor, increasing concerns that the
volatile nation may be creating more nuclear bomb material than it can
safeguard.

David Albright of the Institute for Science and International Security said
Thursday that commercial satellite images show construction beginning on a
building near three plutonium reactors at Khushab outside Islamabad.

U.S.-based experts say Pakistan and India are locked in a long-running nuclear
arms race, with both sides building about 10 warheads a year. Albright estimates
that Pakistan may already have built 100 nuclear weapons, taking the lead over
its neighbor and rival.Busch won't face charges in fatal OD

ST. LOUIS -- Anheuser-Busch heir August Busch IV will not face criminal charges
in the overdose death of his girlfriend, a Missouri prosecutor said Thursday.

St. Louis County prosecutor Bob McCulloch made his announcement a day after the
county's medical examiner said an autopsy showed Adrienne Martin, 27, died of an
accidental overdose of the prescription painkiller oxycodone. McCulloch left
open the possibility of reopening the case if more information became available.

Martin died Dec. 19 after spending the night at Busch's estate.

McCulloch said Thursday that Martin's system contained cocaine as well as
oxycodone.India, Pakistan will resume direct talks

NEW DELHI -- India and Pakistan said Thursday that they would resume talks
suspended since the 2008 terror attack on the Indian city of Mumbai that saw 166
killed and hundreds injured by militants with ties to Pakistan.

The Mumbai assault continues to loom large. But the two sides decided to move
ahead during a meeting of their foreign secretaries on the sidelines of a
regional gathering in Bhutan this week.

Senior foreign ministry officials will hold talks on counter-terrorism,
humanitarian issues, peace and security, the divided Kashmir region, water
resources and the regional economy -- capped by a meeting of the two country's
foreign ministers that will attempt to consolidate the gains. That last meeting
is supposed to take place before July.How much data? To the moon!

WASHINGTON -- How much information is there, really?

Well, according to a new study, humans were able to store 295 exabytes of
information as of 2007.

Now what, you might ask, is an exabyte?

As you may recall, a bit is a single piece of information, "1" or "0," and a
byte usually contains eight bits -- then 1,000,000,000,000,000,000 bytes in an
exabyte.

Martin Hilbert and Priscila Lopez of the University of Southern California say
that if all that data were stored on compact discs, the stack of CDs would reach
beyond the moon.

That's a lot of data, and presumably we have collected a lot more since then.
After all, Lopez and Hilbert estimate the storage capacity of the world's
computers doubles every 18 months.Syphilis tests shown to be false

ATLANTA -- Hundreds of people may have been told they tested positive for
syphilis when they didn't actually have the disease, health officials say.

A study of five U.S. labs shows about 18 percent of the positive results from a
test method used since the 1980s were actually negative, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention said Thursday.

Experts previously thought the statistic was much lower -- under 7 percent.

The CDC recommends additional testing when this particular test gives a positive
result. But even if most doctors retest, the new research suggests that some
people have unnecessarily worried they were infected with an infamous sexually
transmitted disease.

-- Associated Press, Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

Immigration status bill moves forward

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 149 words


A House panel has voted to invalidate ordinances preventing Minneapolis and St.
Paul police from asking about a person's immigration status unless related to a
crime.

The bill from Republican Rep. Bob Barrett of Shafer cleared the House Public
Safety Committee and Crime Prevention on Thursday on a divided voice vote. It
has one more committee stop before reaching the full House.

Supporters say the state should be tougher on illegal immigration.

The proposal would overturn local prohibitions against enforcing immigration law
or giving federal authorities information about immigration status.

City codes in Minneapolis and St. Paul separate policing from federal
immigration enforcement in most cases.

Top police officials from both cities testified Tuesday that the policies help
officers build relationships with immigrant communities and their repeal would
hurt public safety.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

Nation & World briefing: Man gets life in prison for soldier's death

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1188 words


LITTLE ROCK, Ark. - A man who killed one Arkansas soldier and wounded another -
an act he called retribution for the deaths of Muslims abroad - took an
unexpected plea deal Monday that abruptly ended his murder trial and spared him
the death penalty.

Abdulhakim Muhammad had repeatedly proclaimed that he drove up to a Little Rock,
Ark., recruiting station, drew an assault rifle and fired on the two soldiers.
On Monday, Muhammad stood before Pulaski County Judge Herbert Wright and once
more admitted to committing the crime.

Wright then sentenced Muhammad to life in prison without parole for capital
murder, with 11 more life sentences on the remaining charges and an additional
180 years in prison.

But in exchange for Muhammad's plea, prosecutors could not pursue the death
penalty - the primary reason they wanted a trial.

Obama still backs immigration reform

WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama called on Hispanic activists Monday to build
a movement outside Washington to push for overhauling immigration, saying that
he can't do it by himself and that Republicans aren't playing along.

He said he remains committed to his unfulfilled promise to rewrite the nation's
immigration laws to offer a pathway to citizenship for 11 million undocumented
immigrants. But he offered no timelines as he spoke at the annual conference of
a major Hispanic civil rights organization, the National Council of La Raza;
prospects for congressional action are bleak.

Obama acknowledged as much himself. "I need a dance partner here, and the floor
is empty," he said in referring to congressional Republicans.

Vatican recalls envoy over Irish complaints

VATICAN CITY - Chafing under extraordinary criticism, the Vatican made the rare
move of recalling its ambassador to Ireland on Monday after accusations the Holy
See sabotaged efforts by Catholic bishops to report clerical sex abuse cases to
police.

A Vatican spokesman said that Archbishop Giuseppe Leanza was recalled to help
prepare an official response to Irish complaints, but that the decision "does
not exclude some degree of surprise and disappointment at certain excessive
reactions."

The deepening crisis follows a July 13 report that the Irish diocese of Cloyne
failed to act on complaints against 19 priests from 1996 to 2009. It further
alleged the Vatican encouraged bishops to ignore child-protection guidelines,
including the requirement that abuse claims be reported to civil authorities.

Gay marriage foes

file suit in New York

NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. - Opponents of New York's gay marriage law filed the first
lawsuit challenging the measure, an anticipated salvo that came Monday as dozens
of same-sex couples exchanged vows in a group ceremony overlooking Niagara Falls
a day after the first gay weddings.

A representative of New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms and a rabbi said in
a lawsuit filed in state court that New York's Senate violated its own
procedures and the state's open meetings law when it approved the bill last
month.

Beset Wu won't seek re-election

WASHINGTON - A spokesman for congressman David Wu says the embattled Oregon
Democrat will not seek re-election next year.

Spokesman Erik Dorey said Monday that Wu has not made a final determination
about finishing his current term, but Dorey emphasized that Wu is focused on
serving his constituents to the best of his ability.

The 56-year-old Democrat is under fire after a report in his hometown paper
stated that an 18-year-old California woman left a voicemail in his Portland
office earlier this year that accused Wu of an unwanted sexual encounter three
weeks after the November general election.

House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi has asked the House Ethics Committee for an
investigation.

Arkansas Dem will skip re-election bid

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. - U.S. Rep. Mike Ross, the only Democrat among Arkansas' four
House members, announced Monday he won't seek re-election next year as he
explores a 2014 bid for governor, dealing a potential setback to his party's
attempts to stop a GOP surge in the state.

Ross said he wants to spend time with his family and explore "new opportunities
here at home in Arkansas." He added that opting out of next year's House run
keeps the gubernatorial race an open possibility.

Ross, 49, is serving his sixth term representing Arkansas' sprawling 4th
District, which gained some counties from traditionally Republican territory in
the northwestern part of the state during this year's redistricting process.

Feeling down? Have some fries

Eating fatty food may keep people from becoming depressed, even when everything
around them is a downer, a study found.

Belgian researchers say people who ingested a fatty solution through a feeding
tube were likely to feel less dejected when listening to sad music or viewing
pictures of distressed faces than those given a saline solution the same way.
Also, using a brain scan, they found differences in a number of areas, including
the hypothalamus, which is known to be linked to appetite.

Scientists have long known that a relationship between emotions and food exists,
although the way they interact isn't fully understood. The latest report, in the
Journal of Clinical Investigation, may add to understanding on what signals are
sent to the body by different types of food, said Giovanni Cizza, an
investigator at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
Diseases.

"The size of the effect, reducing the intensity of sad emotions by almost half,
may be clinically meaningful, since it is on the order of magnitude of
pharmacological effects of antidepressants," Cizza wrote in a commentary.

ACLU likely to drop suit against Christie

TRENTON, N.J. - The American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey says it is
likely to drop a lawsuit filed against New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie for
records that confirm he met with the head of Fox News last year.

The ACLU filed the lawsuit Monday on behalf of a reporter for Gawker
Entertainment.

It was based on a public records request made by Gawker reporter John Cook, who
in May sought any correspondence from Christie's office on the meeting between
Christie and Fox News President Roger Ailes.

The governor's office initially refused to confirm any records existed and said
that, if they did, they would be exempt from the state's open records law based
on "executive privilege."

But after the lawsuit was filed, the governor's office released a calendar entry
confirming Christie and his wife attended a private dinner on Sept. 11, 2010, in
New York.

New law doesn't placate Assad foes

BEIRUT, Lebanon - Syria's cabinet has passed a draft law allowing the formation
of political parties to work alongside the ruling Baath Party of President
Bashar Assad, a step in a series of promised changes that anti-government
protesters have dismissed as superficial and useless.

Approved late Sunday night but not yet completed, the draft law followed several
other steps that the government has portrayed as concessions in response to the
4-month-old uprising in Syria.

Activists and protesters said the draft law, like previous steps, was largely
symbolic and had come too late.

-- From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday

Tamar Jacoby: Congress' small step toward immigration reform

BYLINE: By Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 945 words


Among Republican presidential candidates, it's been demagoguery as usual. Why
have a substantive debate when you can exchange inflammatory sound bites
instead, especially on immigration?

But something surprising happened last week far from the campaign trail - on
Capitol Hill, of all places. Just when we thought Congress would never act to
address the nation's broken immigration system, members of the House made a
critical breakthrough, voting overwhelmingly to approve a fix that will make
American companies more competitive and the immigration system fairer and more
welcoming.

The Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act is not a broad, far-reaching bill.
It's nothing like the comprehensive overhaul Congress has been debating for
years. It doesn't add more slots for would-be immigrants. It makes only a small,
surgical tuck in the nation's complex immigration code, phasing out quotas on
the number of legal permanent residents who can be admitted in any given year
from a single country. But this small change could have significant
consequences, for thousands of immigrants and for the politics of immigration.

The per-country caps that would be eliminated by the bill are among the most
absurd and cumbersome features of the U.S. immigration system. Under current
law, thousands of foreigners are approved each year to enter the U.S. as legal
permanent residents, some sponsored by employers who need their skills, others
by family members who arrived before them and became citizens.

But this approval is not enough to guarantee a visa. Instead, approved
candidates get in line and wait for their number to come up under the annual cap
for their countries. And because until now visas were allotted equally to all
countries, no matter how big or small, candidates from big countries with strong
ties to the U.S. have often waited years. Backlogs have gotten so bad that
workers from India, for example, currently face waits of 70 years - in other
words, many never get visas - and family members from Mexico wait more than a
decade.

Phasing out the caps would dramatically reduce waits for many of the highly
skilled workers America needs to remain a globally competitive knowledge
economy. American companies will find it easier to hire researchers, engineers
and other top talent from the big countries that produce most of the brainpower
they rely on to do business. The U.S. will become a more attractive destination
for foreign innovators and entrepreneurs. And they in turn will help create jobs
for Americans, a much-needed boost for economic recovery.

The bill will also help family members of immigrants who have become citizens.
Though the country caps for family-based visas are not eliminated, they would be
expanded, with the maximum that can go to any one country rising from 7 percent
to 15 percent of the total. This could significantly shorten the waits for
spouses and children of immigrants from countries that send large numbers of
newcomers to the U.S. - Mexico, the Philippines, India and China, among others.
And by making it easier for people to enter the country legally, the bill could
potentially make a dent in the illegal flow.

Many immigration reformers wish the measure went further, not just easing and
eliminating country caps but also expanding the number of legal permanent
residence permits, or green cards, issued every year. Unless we do this too, the
critics argue, easing the caps is no more than a palliative. It robs slots from
some countries and awards them to others, shortening waits for Indians and
Mexicans but lengthening them for immigrants from other, smaller countries.

The critics aren't wrong: We do need more green cards. But that isn't
politically possible today, not with unemployment hovering above 8 percent and
politicians so gun-shy about immigration.

Still, the House bill represents a huge political breakthrough. Lawmakers in
Washington have been trying to fix the system for a decade. Democrats and
Republicans have been unable to agree on an approach. The politics of
immigration have grown so polarized that it sometimes seems Democrats own the
issue, while few Republicans will touch it.

The process that produced the Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act was very
different. The bill was proposed by Republicans. With some unusually nimble
negotiating, its GOP sponsors persuaded influential pro-immigration Democrats to
work with them. The resulting bipartisan measure was approved overwhelmingly, by
a vote of 389 to 15. And although it has encountered some obstacles in the
Senate, it has broad bipartisan support there as well.

Perhaps most important, the bill could usher in a new approach to immigration
reform. For a decade, the conventional wisdom among reformers has been "all or
nothing." We shouldn't pass any small fixes, the thinking went, because that
would take the pressure off - we'd lose the head of steam we needed to pass
comprehensive reform. But this strategy has produced only stalemate.

So maybe it's time to try a different approach: not all or nothing but step by
step.

As the country-cap bill shows, the key to the new model will be to start small.
Reforms should focus on the legal immigration system. Both Democrats and
Republicans should initiate bills. Lawmakers will have to relearn the lost art
of horse-trading. Over time, small steps will build trust and confidence. And
who knows - perhaps, someday, they will build momentum for bigger steps.

Tamar Jacoby, a fellow at the New America Foundation, is president of
ImmigrationWorks USA, a national federation of small-business owners working for
better immigration law. She wrote this column for the Los Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 20, 2012 Friday

Would immigration status questions have stopped fatal St. Paul crash?

BYLINE: By Mara H. Gottfried mgottfried@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; North Zone Stories; Ramsey County; Washington County; Crime
and Court Stories; News

LENGTH: 1952 words


If witness accounts are true about Carlos Viveros-Colorado's speed before he
struck and killed a girl outside a St. Paul high school, it wouldn't be the
first time he'd been driving fast.

In the year leading up to the accident that killed Clarisse Grime, 16, near
Harding High School this month, police stopped Viveros-Colorado three times,
citing him for speeding and not having a Minnesota driver's license.

Viveros-Colorado, who turns 51 on Sunday, July 22, is in the U.S. illegally for
the second time. He was undocumented when convicted of DWI in 2001 and left the
country, but he returned about two years later.

Now, some question how three law enforcement agencies handled Viveros-Colorado's
traffic stops in the past year: Should they have suspected him of being an
illegal immigrant and done more than give him citations?

Yoseph Yimam, Grime's stepfather, wishes they had.

"They should have to find out whether he's illegal or not and have taken action
on him before he killed my daughter," Yimam said.

But he also said he doesn't know how officials should do that or how he, as an
immigrant himself, would feel about being questioned about his right to be in
the country. Yimam and his family are from Ethiopia and said they came to the
U.S. legally.

QUESTIONS RENEWED

As much as Grime's family would have wanted to prevent the accident, others say
immigration status does not predict future criminal behavior.

Perhaps Viveros-Colorado was a problematic driver, as evidenced by his past
speeding and DWI convictions, said Chuck Samuelson, executive director of the
American Civil Liberties Union-Minnesota, but that's not connected to his being
in the country illegally, he said.

"For every guy like this, how many guys are there who are of Norwegian heritage
who are drinking and driving, or texting and driving?" Samuelson asked.

Some of these questions about illegal immigration came up in 2008, when Olga
Franco drove through a stop sign near rural Cottonwood, Minn., and killed four
children on a school bus. The Guatemalan national, who was in the country
illegally, was convicted of four counts of criminal vehicular homicide and other
charges.

The lesson that should have arisen from the Franco case was to enforce
immigration laws, said Ruthie Hendrycks, president of Minnesotans Seeking
Immigration Reform.

"Unfortunately, that lesson falls on deaf ears for those in upper management of
law enforcement and city administration," she said. "One must wonder what it
will take for our voices to be heard, to end the pandering and to have such
unnecessary and preventable tragedies addressed."

Local police departments say it's not their job to determine whether someone is
an illegal immigrant and that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement wouldn't
have the resources to take every case.

ICE asks local police departments to contact it if they suspect someone they've
encountered is violating immigration laws, said Shawn Neudauer, spokesman for
the agency.

"With limited resources, ICE must prioritize those resources on the following
cases: criminal aliens, recent border crossers, previously removed aliens, and
fugitive aliens," he said.

When law enforcement officers in Minnesota make a traffic stop and query police
databases, they don't get information about an individual's immigration status,
said Department of Public Safety Commissioner Mona Dohman. That information
could come up if ICE has issued a warrant for the person's arrest or the person
is booked into jail.

HURTLED 50 FEET

Grime died July 5, waiting with her boyfriend for a city bus outside Harding on
the city's East Side.

Viveros-Colorado struck a fire hydrant, careened across a street, hit a "no
parking" sign, and headed down a small embankment by the high school sign.
Sitting under a tree about 50 feet from the curb, Grime was struck and killed by
Viveros-Colorado's SUV, according to a complaint charging him with criminal
vehicular homicide. The charge alleges he was driving in a grossly negligent
manner, something his attorney disputes, saying what happened was "provoked by a
medical event."

Viveros-Colorado told police his leg and arm went numb while he was driving. He
couldn't lift his leg to step on the brake, panicked and accidentally hit the
gas, leading him to hit the hydrant and lose control of his vehicle, said
Alberto Miera, Viveros-Colorado's attorney.

Miera said his client's driving record isn't a bad one. "I would think, if you
looked at most people's driving record in the last 10 years, two speeding
tickets in total would be pretty minimal," he said.

Driving without a license is a common problem for illegal immigrants, Miera
said. Viveros-Colorado tried to be responsible by carrying car insurance and not
driving more than necessary, he said.

"The date of this incident, as I suspect in the other (times he was ticketed),
he was not joyriding or partying," Miera said. "He was coming from work, meeting
his responsibilities."

Viveros-Colorado knows there will be consequences for the crash, his attorney
said.

"All we can do is continue to express our sincere sorrow, sadness and just have
the expectation that ultimately people judge things fairly and put them in
perspective because these are real human beings on all sides of this issue,"
Miera said.

After the accident, Viveros-Colorado's sister told police that he is
undocumented and in the country illegally. Viveros-Colorado remains in the
Ramsey County Jail. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has placed an
immigration detainer on Viveros-Colorado. If released from local custody, he
would be released to the immigration agency.

When Viveros-Colorado was convicted in 2001 of DWI, the federal agency then
known as Immigration and Naturalization Service ordered him to leave the country
and he did so, Miera said. Viveros-Colorado returned to the U.S. to work and
support his family, his attorney said.

NO IMMIGRATION CHECK

Court records show St. Paul police cited Viveros-Colorado at 3:55 p.m. July 19,
2011, for driving without a valid license and speeding 1 to 10 mph over the
limit at Seventh Street and Johnson Parkway. Newport police and the Minnesota
State Patrol have also cited him in the past year.

St. Paul and Minneapolis have ordinances that bar city employees from asking
about someone's immigration status, "except when immigration status is an
element of the crime" or when enforcing federal law on document fraud.

Stopping someone for a traffic violation would not be a reason to ask about the
driver's immigration status under the St. Paul ordinance, said City Attorney
Sara Grewing.

If officers inquire about immigration status, it undermines residents' trust in
police, making them less likely to report being a victim or witness, said Bill
Martinez, assistant St. Paul police chief.

When the St. Paul ordinance passed in 2004, council member Dan Bostrom cast the
lone opposing vote. "Maybe a situation like this begs us to review that
(ordinance)," he said Tuesday.

"We have a responsibility to protect our citizens," Bostrom said. "One of our
citizens was killed in a situation like this, and that is a tragedy. That is
totally unacceptable."

Martinez demurred.

"What happened is gut-wrenching to any parent," he said. "I don't know if other
action had been taken what could have happened, but I don't want to get into
that 'what if' game because it's not realistic."

People who oppose policies like those in St. Paul and Minneapolis call them
"sanctuary cities."

"Quite frankly, I would like to see those pushing and enforcing sanctuary policy
publicly, for all to witness, explain to the parents of Clarisse Grime, an only
child, why immigration laws are not enforced in Minnesota and instead we reward
illegal behavior with a pass," said Hendrycks, the Minnesotans Seeking
Immigration Reform president.

2 STOPS, NO WARRANT

At 3:50 a.m. March 8, a Newport police officer driving on U.S. 61 near 70th
Street looked up the license plate of a vehicle in front of him and saw that the
registered owner had no Minnesota driver's license, according to a police
report.

He stopped the vehicle, identifying the driver as Viveros-Colorado through his
Mexican identification card, the report said. He cited him for driving without a
valid Minnesota driver's license and allowed him to call for a driver with a
license to bring the vehicle home, the report said.

There must have been no warrant from Immigration and Customs Enforcement for his
arrest, or the officer wouldn't have let him go, said Newport Police Chief Curt
Montgomery.

People stopped by police use all kinds of identification and having ID from
another country shouldn't lead officers to conclude a person is in the country
illegally, Montgomery said.

At 8:45 a.m. April 19, a state trooper pulled Viveros-Colorado over on U.S. 61
at Lower Afton Road. He was cited then for driving without a valid license and
speeding. A court record said he was travelling 71 mph in a 60-mph zone.

No law or policy directs a trooper to verify the immigration status of a person
during a routine traffic stop, said Minnesota Department of Public Safety
spokesman Bruce Gordon.

ARIZONA'S APPROACH

State Rep. Steve Drazkowski, R-Mazeppa, has sponsored a bill in the Minnesota
Legislature largely patterned after Arizona's tough immigration law. The U.S.
Supreme Court recently upheld the provision in that law that requires state law
enforcement officials to determine immigration status of anyone they stop if
they have reason to suspect the person might be an illegal immigrant. Drazkowski
said he anticipates authoring a similar bill again.

State Sen. John Harrington, DFL-St. Paul, doesn't support a "show your papers"
approach. The former St. Paul police chief, who represents the area where Grime
was killed, said, "Immigrant enforcement is a federal law enforcement
responsibility, and I believe that's where the responsibility is."

Rep. Tony Cornish, R-Good Thunder, a retired Lake Crystal police chief, has a
different view. He says local officers should investigate a person's immigration
status if there are red flags. But not having a driver's license and speaking a
different language should not be enough to trigger those questions, Cornish
said.

"That wouldn't be much on its own, and you couldn't go just on that, because
that would smell of profiling," he said. "But when there are other factors --
nervousness, no permanent address, can't answer certain questions -- and the
cop's collective experience leads him to believe there's something going on, he
should be able to ask more questions."

Bruce Nestor, a Minneapolis immigration and criminal defense attorney, said he
can think of about a dozen clients in the past year whom police booked into jail
for the misdemeanor offense of not having a driver's license. Once they were in
jail, ICE became aware of them and started removal proceedings, Nestor said.

For misdemeanor offenses in Minnesota, state law says officers can cite and
release people, as long as the officer can establish someone's identity and
doesn't believe they pose a threat to public safety, Nestor said. What officers
accept as proof of identification depends on the department and sometimes the
officer, he said.

Nestor said officers who book someone into jail on a misdemeanor might do it as
a backhanded way to turn someone over to ICE.

The victim's stepfather said he is less concerned about Viveros-Colorado's
immigration status and more troubled by what he calls the driver's excuses after
hitting and killing his daughter.

"I'm angry that he says he has numbness," Yimam said. "I don't accept it. If you
have numbness, why are you driving the car?"

Mara H. Gottfried can be reached at 651-228-5262.

Follow her attwitter.com/MaraGottfried ortwitter.com/ppUsualSuspects .

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Friends of Clarisse Grime watches as dirt is shoveled on her casket at
Elmhurst Cemetery in St. Paul, Minn., on Wednesday, July 11, 2012. (Pioneer
Press: Ben Garvin)
The casket is taken out of the church after a service for Clarisse Grime, the
16-year-old hit and killed by a SUV outside Harding High School on Thursday,
July 5, at Debre Selam Medhane Alem Ethiopian Orthodox Church in Minneapolis,
Minn., on Wednesday, July 11, 2012. (Pioneer Press: Ben Garvin)
Carlos Viveros-Colorado, 50, of St. Paul was arrested Thursday, July 5, 2012, on
suspicion of criminal vehicle operation after his SUV allegedly struck and
killed a teenage girl outside Harding High School in St. Paul. Photo courtesy
Ramsey County sheriff's office.
Clarisse Grime at 16 in March 2012. Grime was 16 when a sport-utility vehicle
struck and killed her outside Harding High School in St. Paul on July 5, 2012.
(Photos courtesy Grime's family)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday

Minneapolis: Free workshops offered to immigrant students seeking deportation
deferrals

BYLINE: By Danya P. Hernandez dhernandez@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; North Zone Stories; Ramsey County; Minnesota-Twin Cities;
West Metro; State

LENGTH: 224 words


Free informational workshops are being offered to Twin Cities immigrant students
who qualify for the two-year protection from deportation known as "deferred
action."

The first workshop will be held at 9 a.m. Saturday, Aug. 18, at the Richard R.
Green Central Park Community School at 3416 Fourth Ave. S. in Minneapolis.

Prerequisites to attend the meeting are to have arrived in the U.S. before the
age of 16, have low-income and be able to provide a criminal background check,
if needed.

"We are encouraging people to be patient. To get accurate information before
they file," said John Keller, executive director of the Immigrant Law Center of
Minnesota.

He said hundreds of people have been calling the center to get their
applications in since the process opened Wednesday.

The nonprofit Immigrant Law Center provides legal services to low-income
immigrants and refugees. Before anyone can file a deferred action application
through the center, they are required to attend one workshop, Keller said.

More dates will be published on the center's website atilcm.org .

NAVIGATE, a nonprofit that offers college advice to immigrant students
regardless of immigration status; Green Central School; and Minneapolis Public
Schools are also participating in the workshops.

Danya P. Hernandez can be reached at 651-228-5116. Follow her
attwitter.com/DanyaPH .

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          November 14, 2012 Wednesday

Norm Coleman urges GOP to take on immigration

BYLINE: By Megan Boldt mboldt@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Legislature; News

LENGTH: 907 words


A week after Hispanic voters helped President Barack Obama win another four
years in office, a prominent Minnesota Republican is calling on his party to
reform immigration laws so immigrants living in the U.S. illegally can become
legal rather than be deported.

Former U.S. Sen. Norm Coleman made his pitch in an opinion piece for the Pioneer
Press posted online Thursday, Nov. 15, departing from stances he took five years
ago while in office.

Coleman said he believes his evolution on immigration is reflective of many
Americans' stance on the issue, and it's time to allow otherwise law-abiding
immigrants pathways to citizenship so they can be vocal and visible members of
society.

"It's time we reject the notion that we are going to send 12 million fellow
human beings back to places they fled to escape poverty, crime and
hopelessness," he wrote.

"It's time we, as conservatives --as Republicans -- as Americans -- embrace the
fact that the failure to stem illegal immigration to America is a shared failure
by leaders of both political parties -- including our own."

Coleman is among a growing number of Republican leaders and insiders calling for
immigration reform after an election in which a growing number of Hispanic
voters shunned GOP candidates. Obama won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote, up
from 67 percent in 2008, according to exit polls.

"Obviously, Republicans are starting to see the handwriting on the wall from
these past election results," said Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party
chairman Ken Martin.

"Their message and candidates are appealing to a smaller and smaller segment.
They need to find a way to appeal to a broader base or they'll continue to lose
elections."

Republican Mitt Romney, who backed hard-line immigration measures, received just
27 percent of Hispanic support, less than any presidential candidate in the past
16 years. President George W. Bush won 44 percent in 2004.

Manuel Guerrero, president of the nonpartisan Minnesota Latino Caucus, said most
Hispanics are working-class and their values fit more readily with the
Democratic agenda.

And even more have shied away from Republicans as the anti-immigration rhetoric
has heated up. In Minnesota, the proposed voter ID amendment pushed more
Hispanics to the left, Guerrero said, because they felt it was an attempt to
suppress their votes.

In contrast, Obama said last summer that officials would grant work permits to
those who came undocumented to the United States as children and had served in
the military or were students who had graduated from high school.

"This election presents some tremendous opportunities for Latinos," Guerrero
said. "They've been turned off by one party and are becoming more civically
engaged."

Observers said tackling immigration is a necessity for the Republican Party --
not only to attract Hispanic voters, but to respond to changing attitudes in the
general electorate.

About two-thirds of voters said most undocumented immigrants should be offered a
chance to apply for legal status rather than be deported, according to exit
polls. And a Washington Post-ABC News poll released this week had support at 57
percent -- up from 49 percent in 2007.

When Coleman served in the Senate, he at times took a more moderate stance on
immigration issues than many of his Republican colleagues.

In 2007, he backed a provision allowing hundreds of thousands of temporary
foreign workers to enter the country under two-year visas. He also opposed
anti-terror laws that disqualified many Hmong refugees from coming to the U.S.

But that same year, Coleman wanted cities to stop barring police officers from
asking about immigration status. And he ultimately joined the majority of Senate
Republicans to block Bush's plan to reform immigration laws by legalizing as
many as 12 million unlawful immigrants while fortifying the borders.

Coleman is now a senior government adviser for the Hogan Lovalls law firm in
Washington, D.C., and head of the American Action Network, an advocacy and
political fund that last year started the Hispanic Leadership Network to engage
the community in "center-right issues."

"If we can't connect with the Latino community, we can't be a majority party.
The math doesn't add up," Coleman said.

Bill Blazar, senior vice president of public affairs and business development at
the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce, said business leaders across the state
applaud Coleman for speaking out.

The chamber is part of the Minnesota Business Immigration Coalition, a group of
companies and organizations pushing for such reform.

Immigrant rights advocates hope support from business leaders and movement
within the GOP could open the door to comprehensive immigration reform.

But it still will be tough, particularly in the Republican-controlled House,
said John Keller, executive director of the Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota.
And he said Minnesota's three GOP members, along with Democrat Colin Peterson,
will be a good test case to see if reform can pass the House.

It's unclear. Republican Rep. Michele Bachmann declined through her spokesman to
comment on the issue. GOP Rep. John Kline's office could not be reached for
comment.

Martin, Minnesota's Democratic leader, said voters will see through on
undelivered promises, immigration included.

"You can talk the talk, but you have to walk the walk," he said.

Megan Boldt can be reached atmboldt@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5495. Follow her
attwitter.com/MeganBoldt .

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Norm Coleman spoke to the St. Paul Pioneer Press editorial board
Wednesday April 15, 2009. (Pioneer Press: Chris Polydoroff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 14, 2011 Monday

Another 240 janitorial workers will lose jobs after ICE audit

BYLINE: By Julie Forster jforster@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Business

LENGTH: 369 words


Harvard Maintenance is the latest employer in the Twin Cities to fire workers
amid scrutiny from immigration officials.

The janitorial service is firing 240 undocumented workers who clean office
buildings in the Twin Cities -- about half its local work force -- after
Immigration and Customs Enforcement conducted a workplace audit, said Service
Employees International Union Local 26, the union that represents the workers.

The government audit found many of the company's workers lacked the
documentation needed to work legally in the U.S.

The dismissals at Harvard, expected to take place in the next week or so, come
not long after fast-food chain Chipotle fired 450 of its Minnesota workers whose
documents were questioned in another workplace investigation. In November 2009,
another janitorial company, ABM, fired 1,200 undocumented workers after a
federal government audit.

Harvard, a national janitorial company with corporate headquarters in New York,
did not return a call seeking comment. ICE declined to answer questions.

Javier Morillo, president of SEIU Local 26, which represents some 5,000 Twin
Cities janitors and window cleaners, said in a statement: "Our community is
traumatized.

"Almost systematically, the federal government has become an employment agency
for the worst employers, pushing hardworking people into the underground economy
where they face exploitation by bad-actor corporations."

DeAnne Hilgers, an employment attorney who helps employers prepare for workplace
audits, said she first noticed a pickup in federal audits in July 2009.

"The law hasn't changed, really," she said. "It's the enforcement that is
changing."

Immigration officials conducted 2,200 audits nationally in fiscal 2010,
generating $6.9 million in fines, up from 1,400 audits and about $1 million in
fines the previous year.

Employers are caught in the middle.

"If we put the onus on the employers to have to verify that every document is
legitimate, they're not going to be able to conduct their business because they
are going to have to be chasing down these documents," Hilgers said. "That's why
the system doesn't work as intended, and employers are losing good workers."

Julie Forster can be reached at 651-228-5189.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 11, 2011 Monday

Japan agency upgrades severity of nuclear crisis

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 940 words


TOKYO -- Japan has raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis to a level
matching the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency
raised the rating to Level 7, a spokesman said Monday in Tokyo. The accident at
the Fukushima Dai-ichi station previously was rated a Level 5, the same as the
1979 partial meltdown at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania.

The stricken nuclear plant, about 135 miles north of Tokyo, is leaking radiation
in Japan's worst civilian nuclear disaster after a magnitude-9 quake and tsunami
on March 11. On Sunday, the government widened the surrounding evacuation zone.

Meanwhile, a magnitude-6.2 earthquake struck off the coast of Chiba, the
prefecture east of Tokyo, at 8:08 a.m. local time Monday, swaying buildings in
the capital, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. It briefly shut runways at
Narita International Airport and halted bullet train services and subways in
Tokyo.Stay to stay put on immigration law

PHOENIX -- A federal appeals court on Monday refused to lift a stay blocking
major parts of Arizona's immigration law from taking effect and said the federal
government is likely to be able to prove the controversial law is
unconstitutional.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals turned down an appeal filed by Gov. Jan
Brewer. She had asked the appeals court to lift an injunction imposed by a
federal judge in Phoenix the day before the law was to take effect on July 29,
2010. The U.S Justice Department sued to block the law, saying enforcing
immigration law is a federal issue.Docs choose riskyif it's about them

CHICAGO -- Physicians may choose riskier treatment for themselves than they'd
recommend for patients, according to a study that highlights a need for candid
discussions about patient preferences.

The study asked more than 700 primary-care doctors to choose between two
treatment options for cancer and the flu -- one with a higher risk of death.

In each scenario, doctors who said they'd choose the deadlier option for
themselves outnumbered those who said they'd choose it for their patients.
That's likely because doctors are taught to do no harm, and death would be the
ultimate harm.Flower girl killedon way to wedding

RALEIGH, N.C. -- A 6-year-old flower girl was killed and two bridesmaids injured
on their way to the wedding when their car was hit head-on by another vehicle.

Kindergartner Ava Kendall was killed Saturday when the other vehicle crossed the
center line. The driver and front-seat passenger, both bridesmaids, remained
hospitalized Monday. The other driver is in serious condition.

The wedding was for Ava's babysitter, who ran to the scene from the venue in
Greenville, N.C. Timing mattersin judges' leniency

WASHINGTON -- If you have to face a judge, try for first thing in the morning or
right after lunch. A new study suggests that is when they are most lenient.

Seeking to test the idea that justice depends on "what the judge ate for
breakfast," researchers studied 1,112 rulings by Israeli judges who were
presiding over boards deciding whether to grant parole to prisoners.

"We find the likelihood of a favorable ruling is greater at the very beginning
of the work day or after a food break than later in the sequence of cases," the
researchers report in today's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

They found that at the beginning of a court session about 65 percent of the
rulings tended to be in favor of the prisoners, but the chance of a favorable
ruling declined to near zero by the end of the session. After a break for a
meal, favorable rulings for the prisoners jumped back up to about 65 percent,
then began declining again.Nicolas Cage's rarecomic book found

LOS ANGELES -- A valuable comic featuring the debut of Superman that resurfaced
in a storage locker last week appears to be the same one stolen from Nicolas
Cage more than a decade ago, police said.

The mint copy of Action Comics No. 1 is now in police custody and an
investigation is under way. Police said the comic has been authenticated and
appears to be the one stolen from Cage in 2000. The Action Comics issue is
highly coveted by superhero buffs.

A copy of the issue was sold in March 2010 for $1.5 million. It originally sold
for 10 cents.Runoff may favorFujimori's daughter

LIMA, Peru -- Peru's voters will choose between an ex-army officer who vows to
redistribute the nation's wealth and the daughter of incarcerated former
President Alberto Fujimori when they vote for a president in a June runoff,
official results show.

The outcome of Sunday's election -- in which three less-polemical candidates
collectively captured 44 percent but canceled each other out -- reflects the
disarray that has plagued Peruvian politics since Fujimori's 1990 emergence from
obscurity.

His daughter, Keiko Fujimori, could beat Ollanta Humala in the June 5 runoff
because she rejects his platform of making structural changes to give the state
a greater role in the economy, arguing that it would scare away foreign
investors.

-- Associated PressIslamic face veilban takes effect

PARIS -- The world's first ban on Islamic face veils took effect Monday in
France, meaning that women may bare their breasts in Cannes but not cover their
faces on the Champs-Elysees.

Two veiled women were hauled off from a Paris protest within hours of the new
ban. Their unauthor ized demonstration was on the cobblestone square facing
Notre Dame Cathedral.

The law affects barely 2,000 women who cloak themselves in the niqab, which has
just a slit for the eyes, and the burqa, which has a mesh screen over the eyes,
and it enjoyed widespread public support when it was passed last year.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday

2 Eagan men charged in cocaine bust

BYLINE: By Maricella Miranda mmiranda@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: DAKOTA COUNTY; Crime and Court Stories

LENGTH: 389 words


Two Eagan men face federal drug charges after authorities say they found cocaine
in one of the suspect's shoes and caught the other flushing drugs down the
toilet.

In total, police found 436 grams of coke in their home, according to this week's
federal indictment against Miguel Moran-Helguera, 36, and Robert Jesus
Amigon-Aragon, 19.

On the street, that amount could sell for an estimated $43,600, said Special
Agent Will Taylor, spokesman for the Drug Enforcement Administration's Chicago
Field Division.

Moran-Helguera, first arrested Sept. 6 on an immigration violation, is part of a
growing number of undocumented immigrants facing federal drug and violent crime
charges, said Jeanne Cooney, spokesperson for the U.S. attorney's office of
Minnesota. Locally, federal prosecutors are charging, on average, six cases a
month.

Years ago, they charged six cases a year, on average.

"We're doing more of these cases than ever before," Cooney said.

The nationwide push to investigate undocumented immigrants for federal crimes
came two years ago when U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder took office, she said.

In these cases, the U.S. attorney's office handles the criminal portion. U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement work on the immigration side. If
undocumented immigrants are convicted, Cooney said, they usually serve their
sentence and are deported.

During the immigration arrest, police found in Moran-Helguera's shoe a plastic
bag with five smaller baggies, each holding about 10 grams of cocaine, the U.S.
attorney's office said. Police then spotted Amigon-Aragon outside the bathroom,
where several baggies were swirling around the toilet bowl. Police recovered
five of them; each held cocaine.

"It's a good-size cocaine case," Cooney said. "It's a distribution case."

Amigon-Aragon and Moran-Helguera each face a count of conspiracy and a count of
possession with intent to distribute cocaine, the U.S. attorney's office
reported.

Moran-Helguera was charged with a second count of possession, while
Amigon-Aragon was charged with attempted destruction of property to prevent
seizure.

If convicted, they could face up to 20 years in prison for each of the more
serious crimes of conspiracy and possession with intent to distribute cocaine
charges.

Maricella Miranda can be reached at 651-228-5421. Follow her at
twitter.com/mariwritesnews

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday

Other voices: NAFTA, immigration and Mexico's advance

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 537 words


The wave of immigration from Mexico that began four decades ago, most of it
unauthorized, has ended, possibly for good. As a report from the Pew Hispanic
Center confirms, net migration from Mexico to the United States sank to about
zero in the past five years. The number of Mexicans living in the United States
without documents shrank from 7 million in 2007 to 6.1 million last year. Causes
include tougher U.S. border enforcement and fewer U.S. jobs, especially in
construction.

Did the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) play a role? President Bill
Clinton pushed the controversial pact through Congress in 1993, arguing that
slashing tariffs would create jobs and increase incomes in Mexico, resulting in
"much less pressure on them to come to this country in the form of illegal
immigration." Has NAFTA finally fulfilled this promise?

Yes and no. Actually, the number of Mexicans living illegally in the United
States shot up from 2.5 million in 1995, the year after NAFTA took effect, to 11
million in 2005. The main reason was the booming U.S. economy, which generated
huge demand for labor just as the share of Mexico's population aged 15 to 39 -
prime migration years - was peaking at about 75 percent.

Migration plummeted after 2005 because of reduced U.S. demand for labor and the
slowing of Mexican population growth - but also because NAFTA started to pay off
in the form of dynamic new export industries in Mexico such as automobile
manufacturing. Analysts suggest the gap in wages between the United States and
its southern neighbor, while still wide, has narrowed to the point where staying
home is economically rational for a growing number of Mexican workers.

NAFTA encouraged both the United States and Mexico to make optimal use of their
scarce resources. In the short run, this shifted jobs and income within each
society and between them. This inherently disruptive process doubtless caused
Mexicans who lost out to seek opportunity in the United States.

But over time, NAFTA helped make Mexico more efficient and, hence, wealthier. It
formed part of a broader restructuring that has transformed Mexico from the
underdeveloped, authoritarian country it was 30 years ago to the increasingly
middle-class democracy it is now.

The gross domestic product per capita in Mexico was $12,400 in 2010, up about 21
percent in real terms since 1980. Infant mortality is down from 79.4 per 1,000
live births in 1970 to 14.7 in 2009.

Practically every Mexican home has electricity; only 41.5 percent did in 1970.
As educational levels have risen, the birth rate has dwindled to roughly that of
the United States. There may never again be legions of Mexican jobless desperate
to migrate, as in the '80s and '90s.

Yes, Mexico is wracked by drug-related violence; income inequality remains high.
Yet in addition to being richer, Mexico is more politically developed than
before NAFTA; its current problems can't overturn what has become one of the
most vibrant multiparty systems in the Americas.

The waning of unauthorized migration may ease a perennial sore point in
U.S.-Mexican relations, enabling both countries to deepen their cooperation, of
which NAFTA is, on balance, a worthy example.

- The Washington Post

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 5, 2012 Wednesday

Illegal immigration showing sustained drop

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1275 words


Nation & World briefing

WASHINGTON -- New census data released Thursday, Dec. 6, affirm a clear and
sustained drop in illegal immigration, ending more than a decade of increases.

The number of illegal immigrants in the U.S. dropped to an estimated 11.1
million last year from a peak of 12 million in 2007, part of an overall waning
of Hispanic immigration. For the first time since 1910, Hispanic immigration
last year was topped by immigrants from Asia.

Demographers say illegal Hispanic immigration -- 80 percent of all illegal
immigration comes from Mexico and Latin America -- isn't likely to approach its
mid-2000 peak again, due in part to a weakened U.S. economy and stronger
enforcement but also a graying of the Mexican population.

WASHINGTON -- As he and his family flipped the switch to light the National
Christmas Tree on Thursday night, President Barack Obama said he hopes the tree
lasts longer than its predecessor, which died after just a year.

Obama was joined at the 90th annual tree-lighting ceremony by first lady
Michelle Obama, daughters Sasha and Malia, and mother-in-law Marian Robinson.

The music-filled ceremony was hosted by actor Neil Patrick Harris of CBS' "How I
Met Your Mother," who bantered with the president and joked with actor Rico
Rodriguez of ABC's "Modern Family" about joining the Obamas in Hawaii this
Christmas.

Singers Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds, Ledisi, Jason Mraz, Colbie Caillat and James
Taylor, along with the band The Fray, performed Christmas songs before a crowd
of about 17,000 on the Ellipse, a park that sits between the White House and the
National Mall.

Examiners believe remains are girls'

EVANSDALE, Iowa -- Investigators are confident that human remains found by
hunters are those of two young Iowa cousins who vanished in July, authorities
said Thursday.

Autopsies by the state medical examiner's office were still under way, but the
remains are believed to be those of Lyric Cook and Elizabeth Collins, who were
10 and 8 when they did not come back from riding their bikes July 13, Black Hawk
County sheriff's Capt. Rick Abben said.

Hunters found the bodies Wednesday in a rural wildlife area in northeastern
Iowa, about 25 miles from Evansdale, the city of 4,700 where the girls were last
seen. Authorities found their bikes and a purse near a recreational lake in the
city, and their disappearance sparked a massive search and kidnapping
investigation involving the FBI, state and local police.

Christie seeks more aid in Obama visit

WASHINGTON -- New Jersey Republican Gov. Chris Christie was reunited with
President Barack Obama on Thursday for the first time since the pair teamed up
in response to superstorm Sandy.

Christie made an unannounced visit to the White House, where he met with Obama
to press for $83 billion in extra disaster aid for his state plus New York and
Connecticut.

Obama is expected to ask Congress for about $50 billion in additional emergency
aid for 11 states struck by the late October storm.

Christie made a similar pitch to a fellow Republican, House Speaker John Boehner
of Ohio, later at the Capitol.

Duchess released from the hospital

LONDON -- The Duchess of Cambridge left a London hospital Thursday after being
treated for acute morning sickness related to her pregnancy. Clutching a small
bouquet of yellow roses, the former Kate Middleton smiled and posed briefly for
a photo alongside her husband, Prince William, before leaving King Edward VII
Hospital. She stepped into a waiting car.

The couple's office said she would head to Kensington Palace in London for a
period of rest. She had been in the hospital since Monday. Officials from St.
James's Palace have said the duchess is not yet 12 weeks pregnant with the
couple's first child.

McAfee in hospital after asylum denial

GUATEMALA CITY -- Software company founder John McAfee was hospitalized Thursday
after being denied political asylum in Guatemala and his lawyers said they were
making a last-ditch effort to keep him from being flown back to Belize for
questioning about the killing of a fellow American expatriate.

McAfee said that he suffered chest pains overnight but didn't believe he had a
heart attack. A government doctor who examined him agreed, saying that McAfee's
heart rhythm and blood pressure were normal and that he appeared to be suffering
from high stress.

McAfee was moved from an immigration center to a police-run hospital Thursday
after Guatemalan authorities said McAfee's request for asylum had been denied.
They did not explain why.

Shortly after the decision was announced, McAfee issued a plea on his blog for
the public to petition Guatemalan President Otto Perez Molina to let him stay.

Handyman beaten, forced to do repairs

MORGAN HILL, Calif. -- A Northern California man and woman are accused of luring
a handyman to a home, beating him and holding him against his will for about six
hours while they forced him to fix a dishwasher and other appliances under
threat of his life.

Jason DeJesus, 36, and Chanelle Troedson, 33, were charged with false
imprisonment and other felony counts Thursday, three days after they were
arrested in the attack on the 50-year-old handyman, Santa Clara County
authorities said.

Sheriff's Sgt. Jose Cardoza said the attack followed a dispute between the
handyman and a relative of DeJesus' over payment for work he'd done at the
relative's house about two months ago.

Leader of Hamas will visit Gaza Strip

GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -- The supreme Hamas leader's first visit to the Gaza
Strip this weekend signals growing regional acceptance of the Islamic militant
movement in charge of the once isolated territory and grudging acquiescence by
Israel.

Hamas chief Khaled Mashaal, who has positioned himself as a pragmatist and
enjoys the backing of regional heavyweights Egypt, Turkey and Qatar, could also
use the trip to lobby for re-election.

Mashaal is to arrive Friday for a three-day tour, with Hamas' 25th anniversary
rally on Saturday set as the centerpiece. He'll visit the homes of two Hamas
icons assassinated by Israel, military chief Ahmed Jabari and spiritual leader
Sheik Ahmed Yassin.

Gas station suspect a military veteran

ATLANTA -- An elderly man accused of gunning down a Georgia woman after his
motorized wheelchair and her car bumped is a military veteran and church deacon
who has suffered strokes in recent years, his attorney said Thursday.

Frank Louis Reeves, 73, is accused of killing 65-year-old Linda Hunnicutt at a
Macon gas station Tuesday. His attorney, Veronica Brinson, said that Reeves is
in shock about what happened and didn't mean for anyone to get hurt.

"He's never been in any trouble, so this is new to him," she said.

Reeves faces a murder charge.

Prosecutor resigns under pressure

NEW ORLEANS -- New Orleans' corruption-busting federal prosecutor resigned
Thursday after two top deputies became embroiled in a scandal that threatens to
undermine some of his biggest cases and damaged his standing as one of the most
popular public officials in a city with a rich history of graft.

U.S. Attorney Jim Letten, whose successful prosecution of a former Louisiana
governor and numerous other officials won him bipartisan praise for more than a
decade, had been under mounting pressure ever since two veteran prosecutors
admitted anonymously posting criticism of judges and comments about cases on a
newspaper website.

At a news conference, Letten, 59, gave no reason for his resignation but said
the decision "was ultimately mine."

He did not address the allegations against his underlings. But he previously
said he had no idea what they were up to until their online activities were
revealed in court filings.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday

Eagan man sentenced for harboring illegals

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 110 words


A 63-year-old Eagan businessman was sentenced in U.S. District Court in
Minneapolis on Wednesday for harboring five illegal immigrants for financial
gain.

Joo Ok Kim received 24 months in prison on one count of harboring and concealing
aliens. Kim was indicted March 18, 2010, and pleaded guilty Aug. 18, 2010.

In his plea agreement, Kim admitted that from November 2008 through March 2009,
he kept five Mexican nationals in his basement to have them work at his siding
business.

The men were discovered March 28, 2009, when police responded to a disturbance
call at Kim's home.

The case followed an investigation by federal authorities and Eagan police.

-- Staff report

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday

From danger to unemployment?

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 504 words


One of the national stories is about bringing the troops home ("Time to come
home," Oct. 22). I share the joy of those with friends and loved ones in Iraq to
have them out of danger.

I am not the first one to wonder what will happen to them, from a job and
economic point of view, when they get home. It would be a shame to take them
from danger and put them in an unemployment line.

Another subject on the minds of people is the many aliens crossing our border
from Mexico. Maybe our Congress and executive branch should combine the two and
assign the returning soldiers to patrol from Texas to California along the
border to reduce the illegal border crossings to a trickle.

The soldiers are certainly accustomed to the landscape and the climate. They are
accustomed to the discipline of military life, would be employed and would face
minimal danger.

I know that the illegal aliens could circumvent the "blockade" by going in via
the Gulf Coast, but it would be much more difficult. This solution is not
foolproof and needs organization, but please consider it.

Marvin Drake, Woodbury

Expecting more

I read your opinion section on a daily basis to get a glimpse of the diverse
opinions of fellow readers on current events. While I applaud your effort in
providing these differing opinions, I am disappointed in some of the content you
are publishing.

Regardless of whether or not I agree with them, I enjoy reading the differing
opinions of people, if they are well thought out and well stated. I am extremely
disappointed when these opinions include labeling people as "socialists" or as a
"caveman," as did opinions published Oct. 26 ("Congress is responsible" and "The
big bear").

My hope is that I am not alone in stating that I expect more from you in your
portrayal of rational public sentiment regarding the events of the day.

John Feia, Hudson, Wis.

The world is watching

The writer of "The world is not watching" (Oct. 21) might be the only one not
paying attention. What started out as a handful of people in NYC has spread
worldwide. Someone must have been watching. And his condescending remarks to the
"kids" and "self-important protesters" that they will not have an impact, just
like earlier protesters, is way off base.

First, these are not just "kids." Second, nothing they have done suggests that
they are "self-important." Third, they have already had a significant impact,
which is why we see those who oppose their ideas scrambling to dull their
impact.

The civil rights demonstrators of 40 years ago, some of whom did not survive,
had a huge impact on the implementation of the Civil Rights Act. And how much
longer would we have been entangled in the Vietnam War had it not been for the
anti-war demonstrators?

Like it or not, protesters do have an impact. They awaken many to the wrongs of
life. Thankfully, we today have faster and better access to what is going on.
And literally, the world is watching us and we are watching the world, at least
for those who want to know what is going on.

S. Holmgren, St. Paul

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 6, 2011 Sunday

Efforts to verify workers continues to rankle in Minnesota

BYLINE: By Julie Forster jforster@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; Minnesota-Twin Cities; News;
Business

LENGTH: 1373 words


Skip Bolton knew if he lost a big portion of his work force, even a temporary
shutdown of his company's food-packaging operations in Lakeville could cost his
business some clients. Big consumer-products companies use the contract
manufacturer to package their cereals and snacks and get them onto shelves --
fast.

Not being able to spare a slowdown if federal agents came combing for illegal
workers, Ryt-way Industries signed onto a partnership with the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency to ensure that the company's 1,000 workers -- 40
percent of whom don't speak English -- are legal.

The program includes using E-verify, a centralized federal database to check
whether documents produced by job candidates are legitimate. At first many
documents came up as suspect. It happened, said Bolton, who is vice president of
human resources, "quite often." It has improved and, as word spread among
immigrant communities about the company's careful checking, Bolton says fewer
false documents turn up.

Still, he said he would welcome reform of immigration laws so more foreign
workers could work within U.S. borders legally.

"If that does happen eventually, I would certainly embrace it," Bolton said.
"But right now, the law is the law."

Enforcing the law is a process that remains enmeshed in controversy. In recent
years, focus has switched from high-profile workplace raids in which workers
were jailed and eventually deported to an emphasis on employers. This approach
involves penalizing or even prosecuting employers that knowingly hire and retain
illegal workers and limiting the deportation of workers mainly to those who are
deemed criminals.

The shift has done little to win over anybody. Workers swept up in what are now
known as workplace audits -- nicknamed "desktop raids," because they focus on
company employment records -- may not land on buses headed to jail but still end
up fired from their jobs. Fewer are deported, but many are forced deeper into
the shadow economy to find work that advocates say likely involves cash pay that
flies under the taxation radar. Employers can see their operations grind to a
halt as they sift through a blizzard of paperwork.

As the focus has shifted, enforcement has increased. Immigration officials
conducted 2,200 workplace audits nationally in fiscal year 2010, up from 1,400
the previous year and more than double the 2008 total. The increased audits in
2010 resulted in 240 fines totaling $6.9 million, up from 52 fines totaling
about $1 million in 2009. Immigration officials declined to release
Minnesota-specific figures.

COMPANIES PROACTIVE

In recent months, audits in Minnesota have included Chipotle Mexican Grill
restaurants and two South St. Paul meat-processing companies --Twin City Hide
and Twin City Tanning -- that have resulted in the firing of hundreds of illegal
workers.

DeAnne Hilgers, a Minneapolis employment attorney who advises companies, said
she expects the scrutiny will continue to escalate.

"What I have seen is a regular and increased motivation by ICE to confirm that
more and more employers are complying with their I-9 obligations," she said,
referring to the form used to verify eligibility to work in the United States.

Much of her time now involves helping employers who have received notice of an
audit get their I-9s in order to show authorities.

"As ICE inspections increase -- and I expect they will -- we will see more
employers taking a proactive approach to this," she said.

Chipotle, with 1,200 employees at 50 outlets in Minnesota, fired hundreds of
illegal immigrant workers here starting in December as a result of an audit. The
Service Employees International Union Local 26, which has emerged as an advocate
for the workers even though they aren't union members, estimates that 700
workers lost their jobs. Although Chipotle disputes that estimate, it hasn't
provided its own number.

The Denver-based company, which also faces audits in Virginia and Washington,
D.C., said last week that immigration officials have yet to penalize the firm
for the problems found here.

While Chipotle says it uses E-verify in three states where it's required,
Minnesota is not among them. Over the past five years, the company says it has
improved its document-review capabilities and procedures.

"Certainly, this incident has been eye-opening for us and caused us to redouble
our efforts to make sure we are doing all we can," co-chief executive Monty
Moran said in e-mailed responses to questions.

NO-WIN SITUATION

In Minnesota, Latino workers who had worked at Chipotle for up to 10 years were
fired when they failed to produce valid documents of their legal status to work.
Many acknowledged they were hired at the company using false documents that they
purchased when they came to the United States.

In explaining their situation, some broke into tears at what they said was poor
treatment by a company they had been loyal to for many years.

Chipotle isn't happy with the situation, either. Moran said he believes
immigration laws are flawed, and companies find themselves in no-win situations.

"What people need to understand is that when an applicant presents documents to
an employer that appear upon reasonable inspection to be authentic, employers
have to accept those documents, even though they may later prove to be forged,
invalid, or not related to that employee," he said in an e-mail.

If employers bring increased scrutiny to any individual worker, they risk
running afoul of civil rights laws, he said.

Chipotle does two separate document reviews for each employee it hires.

"Nonetheless," Moran said, "many of these forgeries are extremely difficult to
detect."

The result is instability in the work force and the potential loss of
well-trained, productive employees.

"At the end of the day, those employees who are removed from one job simply get
a job down the street with another employer," Moran said. "What you have is a
lot of disruption and instability to business and employees, taxpayer money and
other resources spent, and no real change to the situation."

INTO THE UNDERGROUND

Javier Morillo, president of SEIU Local 26, a union representing janitors,
window cleaners and security guards with a largely immigrant membership, saw
firsthand what happens after an audit and he, too, questions the feds' new
direction. In November 2009, New York-based cleaning firm ABM Industries fired
1,200 SEIU-represented janitors in the Twin Cities after an audit.

Subsequently, many of the fired janitors went from $13-an-hour jobs with access
to health care to what Morillo describes as an underground economy of
unscrupulous employers who pay their employees under the table and off the
books.

Still, based on a survey of the affected workers, only 6 percent said they were
seriously considering returning to Mexico or other countries of origin.

The union estimates 760 U.S. citizen children were affected by the audit, by
having a parent lose a job, and 678 houses were expected to go into foreclosure.

"Most have found jobs," said Greg Nammacher, SEIU Local 26's treasurer. "But not
good jobs or consistent jobs."

One woman, Ester, 40, who moved from Morelos, Mexico, for a better life for her
son and daughter, bought a house in South Minneapolis on her wages at ABM. Out
of fear, she didn't want to use her last name.

Ester started work at the janitorial company in 1998, cleaning office buildings.
When she came to Minnesota, she said through an interpreter, her dream was to
find a job and work hard so she could move her family forward.

At first, her son and daughter were still in Mexico living with her mother.

Ester was sending money from her job back to them, motivated to improve her
position so they, too, would have a better life. Eventually, the two small
children joined her in Minnesota.

After she was fired, she could not find a new job and her daughter, who also is
undocumented, dropped out of high school in her senior year to support the
family.

Brenda, 19, now works full time for a Shakopee manufacturer. Although she is
quick to say she did not "drop out" of high school -- she prefers to call it a
pause -- she finds it hard to quit her paying job to return to school and has
not yet done so.

Julie Forster can be reached at 651-228-5189.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 10, 2010 Friday

50 metro Chipotle workers lose jobs after audits

BYLINE: By Julie Forster jforster@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 544 words


Latino workers at a number of Chipotle restaurants around the Twin Cities lost
their jobs this week, an advocacy group says, after the federal government
conducted workplace audits to ensure employees are legal to work in the U.S.

About 50 Chipotle workers were terminated during the audit process, said Brad
Sigal, a member of Minnesota Immigrant Rights Action Committee, an advocacy
group opposing the way immigration laws are being enforced.

"As far as I understand it, this happened this week, between Monday and
(Thursday) and possibly continuing today," Sigal said Friday. Sigal said he had
been told workers at locations in downtown Minneapolis, Grand Avenue in St.
Paul, Richfield, Coon Rapids, and in Hudson, Wis., were affected, to name a few.
He called it a "statewide effort."

Chipotle, which operates 50 corporate-owned Mexican fast-casual restaurants in
Minnesota, acknowledged receiving a request for employee records from the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

"We are fully cooperating with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
officials in Minnesota in connection with a document request they have made,"
the Denver-based company said in a statement. A spokesman declined to elaborate.

A local ICE spokesman said the agency does not discuss specific audits.

But activist groups and unions, which represent workers at the targeted
companies, are speaking up. Chipotle appears to be one of many employers
targeted in a stepped-up enforcement strategy of federal audits aimed at
cracking down on companies that employ illegal workers.

About a year ago, 1,200 janitorial workers in the Twin Cities lost their jobs as
a result of federal audits. In October, more than 50 workers at a South St. Paul
tanning company lost their jobs in a similar audit. Last week, close to 50
workers lost their jobs at a South St. Paul cattle-hide processing company for
the same reason.

In the year ended Sept. 30, immigration officials conducted more than 2,200
audits nationally, up from 1,400 in the previous 12-month period. They issued
240 fines totaling $6.9 million in the most recent period, up from 62 fines
totaling about $1 million the previous year.

Brendan Cummins, a Minneapolis attorney who represents immigrant workers,
believes audits have increased even more dramatically in recent months. "I have
noticed an upsurge, just from anecdotal observation," he said, noting workers
are complaining about the process. Often, the audits don't provide enough
specifics about documentation discrepancies. Workers also say they aren't given
enough time to do the paperwork to address the problems, which can simply be the
result of misunderstandings. "Yes, people with legal status get caught up in
this, they absolutely do," Cummins said.

Sigal called the latest event at Chipotle a "tragedy."

Workers who have been at Chipotle for years are losing their jobs just before
the holiday, he said.

"It doesn't make sense," he said. "Everyone should have the right to work and
support their families."

His group believes current immigration laws are unjust and favors liberalizing
restrictions on undocumented workers. "We support immigration reform," he said,
"but not increased repression as part of that reform."

Julie Forster can be reached at 651-228-5189.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday

Ruben Rosario: Federal cases by the numbers: Data do not tell entire picture

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; Ruben Rosario; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 982 words


OK. Before you push the panic button, I'm going to give you the raw numbers
first.

Minnesota ranks 67th out of 94 federal court districts in prosecuting
non-immigrant felony criminal cases since 2009. The Gopher State plunges even
lower -- to 80th place -- in prosecuting immigrant-related felony cases during
the past two years.

This sounds bad. Doesn't everyone want to be first? Maybe now we should panic.
But statistics can be deceiving.

The lowly rankings are courtesy of a report released last week by the
Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a nonpartisan research group based
at Syracuse University.

TRAC researchers compared the last two years of the George W. Bush
administration with the first two years of Barack Obama's when it came to each
type of prosecution as well as staffing levels among federal agencies and
prosecutor offices.

They found that with federal enforcement more focused on immigration matters,
other kinds of felony prosecutions fell by 6 percent. The decline began with
Bush and continues under Obama. We're talking here about drug trafficking,
organized and white-collar crime, and other offenses.

What makes the decline intriguing, if not troubling, is that it took place at a
time when the feds boosted the size of major federal law enforcement agencies
and prosecutorial staff nationwide.

For example, staffing for U.S. attorney's offices grew by 9 percent and the FBI
by 15 percent, according to the report. The Drug Enforcement Administration also
saw a staff increase of 3 percent.

The researchers labeled the apparent contradiction -- a drop in cases amid
personnel increases -- a puzzle.

"In the past," they added, "law enforcement agencies faced with this combination
have often argued that the conflicting trends can be explained because they are
bringing more serious cases," the researchers state. "In this case, however,
that possible explanation is weakened by the fact that the actual sentences
imposed in the 89 districts under review have changed very little.

"For all those convicted of non-immigration felonies in fiscal year 2010," they
added, "the average sentence was 2 percent less than it was in fiscal year
2007."

IMMIGRATION FOCUS

The report's major finding rebuts the lingering perception that the current
administration is not enforcing federal immigration laws. In fact, they may be
doing it at the expense of other federal crimes that affect public safety.

Felony immigration prosecutions in the five federal districts along the Mexican
border -- Arizona, the Southern District of California (San Diego), New Mexico,
the Western District of Texas (San Antonio) and the Southern District of Texas
(Houston) -- shot up 77 percent between 2007 and 2010.

"While in the past individuals attempting to enter the country were simply
deported, now more and more of them are criminally prosecuted for illegal
entry," the report noted.

Immigration prosecutions in nonborder states rose 31 percent during the same
time span.

The report also noted a geographic shift in enforcement trends or practices.

Four years ago, slightly more than 36 percent of all felony prosecutions were in
federal districts in the Southwest border states. Now, almost half of such
prosecutions occur there, an area with about 10 percent of the nation's
population.

"And because a growing proportion of this declining enforcement effort is
focused on immigration matters, there is less and less left over for prosecuting
those who are committing all the other types of serious federal crimes," the
report noted when pointing out the districts responsible for 90 percent of the
population.

The five nonborder federal districts with the largest spikes in immigration
prosecutions aren't normally associated with such a problem: Northern Mariana
Islands in the Pacific, followed by western Oklahoma, western Tennessee,
southern Ohio and the middle district of Georgia.

MINNESOTA BUCKS TREND

But back to Minnesota. According to the report, the number of non-immigration
felony cases prosecuted from 2007 to 2010 declined by 14 percent. But the
decline in immigration cases was even steeper, 31.8 percent.

So, what gives here?

It comes down to prosecution priorities. The local U.S. attorney's office, which
has 55 full-time prosecutors, also saw a decline in total caseloads from 320 in
2009 to 294 in 2010. But here's the rub. The standing mission is quality, not
quantity.

U.S. Attorney B. Todd Jones realigned staff to help the FBI and the IRS go after
more white-collar fraud cases, among the most time-consuming and complex of
criminal cases to prosecute.

Another Department of Justice initiative shifted the limited resources of the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to focus more on "Section 1326"
cases, which involve the illegal criminal element as well as the chronic repeat
border crossers.

Another reason for the case dip has been a noticeable reduction in workplace ICE
raids -- which yielded hundreds of individual cases -- in favor of surprise
workplace audits, also known as silent raids. One such audit of employee working
papers recently prompted the Chipotle restaurant chain in Minnesota to let go
hundreds of mostly Latino workers.

"While statistics can provide an easy reference point, they do not always
provide an accurate picture of the work of our office over the last two years,"
Jones said.

He added that the office has stepped up its prosecution of violent crime in
Indian country as well as of child porn, cybercrime and identity-theft cases.

"I firmly believe that a simplistic 'body count' mentality does not serve the
public particularly well when it comes to prosecution decisions," Jones added.
"Our benchmark of success has become community impact, not volume of cases."

Rub?n Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

ONLINE

To read the TRAC report on prosecution caseloads, go to
http://trac.syr.edu/tracreports/crim/245

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday

Theater Latte Da will premiere original musical

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT

LENGTH: 141 words


Theater Latte Da will premiere "Steerage Song," an original musical about early
American immigrants, with a run June 2 through 5 at the Fitzgerald Theater in
downtown St. Paul.

Created by the Twin Cities theater company's artistic director Peter Rothstein
along with musician and writer Dan Chouinard, the musical follows the journey
immigrants took from Europe to the United States through Ellis Island. The pair
spent several years gathering folk songs from 30 different European countries
for the show, which also features patriotic numbers and Tin Pan Alley-style
melodies.

"The history of immigration is both rich and cyclical," Chouinard said. "By
remembering our own history, we can look with greater understanding on the faces
of immigrants in our community today."

Tickets are $31 and $26 and are available through Ticketmaster.

-- Ross Raihala

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 26, 2011 Saturday

Minnesota companies making it in Mexico

BYLINE: By Julie Forster jforster@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1928 words


Last month, the U.S. government barred its employees from traveling in an area
of central Mexico where gunmen had ambushed Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials, killing one and seriously wounding another.

The ambush was another reminder that a violent drug war estimated to have
claimed nearly 30,000 lives since 2006 has seeped from border cities to areas of
Mexico once considered safe.

Included in a broader travel warning issued at the same time was Aguascalientes,
a city of 720,000 some 100 miles from where the ambush took place.

It also happens to be where Donaldson Co. said earlier this month it plans to
open a second factory by year's end.

Despite escalating violence, the Bloomington-based industrial filtration system
manufacturer has on the drawing boards a 140,000-square-foot factory in
Aguascalientes, where it plans to make air filters by the end of the year.

Polaris Industries of Medina is shifting a big part of its manufacturing to
Mexico. It's shutting down a plant in Osceola, Wis., idling some 500 workers as
it prepares to open a 425,000-square-foot factory in Monterrey, where it will
assemble all-terrain vehicles.

Another major manufacturer, Bloomington-based Toro Co., operates two plants in
one of the most dangerous border towns in Mexico, Ciudad Juarez.

Cheap Mexican labor has been a longtime magnet for U.S. businesses. Tax benefits
offered by NAFTA are another draw, as is geographic proximity to expanding
markets in Central and South America.

But operating in an environment of rising drug violence is making it a riskier
investment. The 2009 economic crisis in Mexico along with the increased border
violence along the U.S.-Mexico border has caused many of Mexico's
export-oriented assembly plants to shut down in recent years, according to a
report from the Congressional Research Service, which does policy analysis for
the U.S. Congress.

Direct foreign investment in Mexico -- most of which is in manufacturing --
dropped to $12 billion in 2009, down from $24.3 billion in 2008, according to
the report. An improved economy helped fuel a rebound last year, though the
Mexican government estimates investment likely remained below $18 billion.

"The escalation of violence has resulted in increased risk aversion, which has
impacted foreign investment flows, particularly in the manufacturing industry,"
the Congressional Research Service report said.

One of the regions, Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua -- just across the border from El
Paso, Texas -- saw a 22 percent decline in manufacturing employment from 2007 to
2009, the report said. A study by the College of Chihuahua estimates drug
violence has created 17,000 orphans in the region over the past three years.

Ciudad Juarez is where workers in two Toro plants make irrigation systems and
injection molding and assemble consumer lawn care products. Toro opened its
first plant there in 2001. The plants employ an average of about 500 workers,
though that swells to 1,700 during peak times.

"Our plants in Juarez are great facilities that continue to produce at the
highest level of quality and delivery standards," said Branden Happel, the
company's spokesman. "While we have taken some precautionary measures to secure
the facility and our employees, the situation in Juarez has not significantly
altered any decisions about manufacturing there."

Happel declined to detail the measures, citing security concerns. The
Congressional Research Service noted that foreign investors have passed on
opening plants in Juarez since 2008, and business leaders there have taken steps
to increase security, such as eliminating overtime so workers can get home
before sunset.

Almost any major company with global operations probably has some sort of
manufacturing and sales office in Mexico, said Troy Duncan, head of the
manufacturing practice at the Minneapolis office of consulting giant Grant
Thornton. But the violence is prompting some companies to take pause. Due to the
increased risk of doing business in Mexico, companies are taking a harder look
and evaluating the total cost of expanding operations, which now includes
increased spending on security and safety measures, he said.

"While it still makes sense for a lot of companies, the risk profile of that
country has increased," Duncan said.

Electrolux, the household appliance maker, employs more than 1,000 workers
making freezers at a plant in St. Cloud. When it was deciding to move production
of built-in cooking units such as cook tops and wall ovens from a plant in
Quebec, it considered locations in Mexico, where it already had two plants -- in
Juarez.

ELECTROLUX AND POLARIS

Ultimately, Electrolux decided to build the plant in Memphis, Tenn., which will
employ 1,200 workers. Security concerns in Mexico were one of "many, many,
considerations in making a determination," said Tony Evans, the company
spokesman.

The company's ability to leverage the existing resource base in cooking products
with a large Electrolux plant in Springfield, Tenn., was also a consideration,
Evans said.

Monterrey is a long way from western Wisconsin, where until recently Polaris
workers made seats, engines and other parts for Polaris recreational vehicles.
Osceola, the city of about 2,900 residents where Polaris is shutting down
operations, hasn't seen a homicide in more than a decade.

The Monterrey area, where more than 4 million people live, saw more than 140
killings in January alone. Just last month, three gunmen died during what is
believed to have been an assassination attempt on the city's mayor. The
butchered remains of the local prison's security chief turned up in a cardboard
box after he was kidnapped from his home.

"For our Monterrey operations, we have taken the additional precautions of
engaging consultants and security experts and have also benchmarked security
measures by other companies in Monterrey," a Polaris spokesperson said. "We will
continue to proactively assess the environment to ensure we are taking
appropriate action."

The additional cost of security at Mexico plants is outweighed by the benefits
for a company like Donaldson Co.

Charlie McMurray, senior vice president of industrial products, said the
increased capacity provided by a second plant in Aguascalientes allows the
company to meet growing demand for air and liquid filters from its customers in
South and Central America.

Making a product close to where it will be sold saves on shipping. Filters are
tough to pack tightly enough to make long-distance shipping cost-effective,
McMurray said. "You've got to be close to customers from a cost standpoint and
service standpoint."

Donaldson Co., which expects 2011 revenue of $2.2 billion, sees growth in Latin
America at least doubling that in more developed markets, such as the U.S.

It's also expecting beefier margins. In its most recent quarter, the company
said it had improved its gross margins from 33.5 percent to 35.3 percent by
getting a better handle on fixed costs. Despite rising raw material costs ahead,
the company is counting on those margins getting even better.

As it scouted for the location of its newest plant in Mexico, security was one
of the deciding factors. Although Aguascalientes is not immune from drug and
gang violence, McMurray considers it relatively low-risk.

"The security situation in Mexico was part of the criteria we discussed in
making our decision," McMurray said. "Aguascalientes is one of the smaller
states in the central part of Mexico, so it's removed from a lot of the drug
business that is closer to the border with the U.S."

When its Mexican employees travel on business to other parts of the country
deemed "less secure," they follow a safety protocol developed in early 2010.
Donaldson uses safety ratings for various regions in Mexico to which its
employees are traveling.

McMurray said the protocol involves levels of risk based on U.S. State
Department ratings for various cities and regions in Mexico. Depending on the
level of risk assigned to each region, employees must take various safety
measures. In some cases, travel is forbidden on certain roads. Employees are not
allowed to be out alone at night and are required to call in to the plant at
certain times of the day.

Donaldson also provides training for employees on how to keep themselves safe
when they are not on the job.

V-Tek, a Mankato-based manufacturer, has plants in Aguascalientes, Guadalajara,
Reynosa and Monterrey. The company packages components for the semi-conductor
industry and serves the electronics industry in Mexico.

"In terms of the violence, it's always a concern," said Larry Haberman,
president of the company.

Haberman traveled to Mexico earlier this month and on the plane to Dallas met
some Polaris managers on their way to that company's Monterrey plant. "We all
talked about security on the way down," he said. "That's the buzzword."

Haberman visited V-Tek's plants in Guadalajara and Aguascalientes and some of
the company's customers in those cities. At three different customer plants, he
asked about the violence. Their answer: "It's no different than the gang
shootings you have in Minneapolis and St. Paul," he said. "For the most part,
they are shooting their own."

He didn't go to the plant in Reynosa, where a series of shootouts between
soldiers and a drug gang prompted the U.S. consulate to close its offices
temporarily in February.

CRIME'S IMPACT

V-Tek is in Mexico because its customers in the automotive and electronics
industry have plants there. The smaller V-Tek plants are next to the plants the
company supplies. In total, the company employs 130 people in Mexico now.

Haberman was worried when he went there that some of his customers might pull up
stakes due to the violence. He had a different impression after his recent
visit. "I think the violence is overstated, to be honest with you," he said.

"I came away convinced that really it's no different than the U.S.," he added.

The company is scouting two more locales to open in Mexico in 2012.

The violence in Mexico is prompting some companies to reassess their plans.

Stephen Maurer, who heads the U.S. manufacturing practice at consulting firm
AlixPartners, points to an automotive supplier who a little more than a year ago
decided to move work from Asia and the U.S. to Mexico. That company recently put
its plans on hold when the violence escalated.

"They've decided to wait and see how things shake out before they make their
move," Maurer said. "They're worried about their workforce."

A few years ago, Twin Cities businessman William Easton and his partners in a
company that made wire harnesses for appliances and construction equipment set
up a plant in Hermosillo, about 3 1/2 hours south of the U.S. border. He and his
partners were able to take advantage of lower labor rates and many government
tax incentives.

While Easton paid assemblers in Burnsville between $10 and $12 per hour, the
going hourly rate in Mexico was about $1.45. The Mexican engineers he employed
were paid annual salaries of between $8,000 and $12,000.

He also noticed crime's impact: Factories closer to the border and the worst of
the violence were forced to pay employees more. Turnover also was higher.

"The labor rate was up to $6 to $7 per hour, there was a high turnover in labor
and a lot of worry about the violence," he said. "I never saw any value in being
there."

Easton sold the wire harness business and is starting a company that makes
custom baseball gloves. While the company will be based in Bloomington, those
gloves will be made in Hermosillo.

Julie Forster can be reached at 651-228-5189.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday

Hispanic population growth could realign South's politics

BYLINE: By Halimah Abdullah McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 492 words


WASHINGTON -- Huge surges among Hispanic populations in the Deep South could
mean a political sea change over the next two decades, as immigrants become
naturalized and they and their American-born children register to vote,
political and demographics experts say.

The states with some of the largest percentages in Hispanic population growth
make up a large swath of the Southeast: Alabama, Arkansas, Kentucky,
Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee, according to an
analysis of the most recent census figures by the Pew Hispanic Center.

In all those Republican-dominated states, the percentage of Hispanics nearly
doubled.

In Georgia, that population grew by 96 percent over the past decade, according
to the Pew study. Only 23 percent of Georgia's Latino population is eligible to
vote, compared with 42 percent nationwide, figures that reflect the state's high
numbers of young Hispanics and new immigrants, said Mark Hugo Lopez, the
associate director of the Pew Hispanic Center.

However, in Georgia, as in many parts of the country, "there are a number of
campaigns to continue to focus on people who are here legally to become
citizens," Lopez said. "There continue to be efforts to get them naturalized and
registered to vote."

Hispanic elected officials and activists predict that anti-immigration laws and
concerns about redistricting will galvanize that group to become politically
active, in much the same way that the civil rights movement spurred blacks in
the South to register to vote and run for public office.

"The Latino population is still in play politically," said Andra Gillespie, a
political science assistant professor at Emory University in Atlanta. "With the
secular realignment of whites in the South to the Republican Party, Democrats
could be at an advantage. Now that there is a third racial group entering the
fray, you'll see both groups vying for this group."

However, no group votes monolithically, and both political parties have work to
do.

Despite the inroads Republicans were able to make within the Latino community
under both Bush presidencies, Hispanics -- who can be of any race -- have felt
increasingly put off by some Republicans' anti-immigration rhetoric.

The Georgia legislature recently passed an immigration bill that contains
language on verifying the citizenship of new hires and criminals that's very
similar to an Arizona law being challenged in court.

"The calculation among many Republicans in the South is that they can get away
with it, for now," said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America's Voice
Education Fund, a Washington-based immigration advocacy group. "The Latino vote
is going to transform American politics, even in the South. Imagine coalitions
of Latinos, African-Americans and liberal whites turning states that are now
ruby red into states that are purple or even blue. If Republicans continue to
antagonize Latino voters, they may be facing their comeuppance."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

Twin Cities ICE office has new homeland investigations chief

BYLINE: By Mara H. Gottfried mgottfried@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 199 words


A new head of investigations has been named to the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's office in the Twin Cities.

Michael Feinberg has been acting special agent in charge of ICE's Homeland
Security Investigations since 2010; the position was made official this week.
The office is based in the Twin Cities and Feinberg will supervise special
agents in 14 offices in Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota and South
Dakota.

Homeland Security Investigations include drug smuggling, illegal exporting
munitions and high-tech items, money laundering, financial crimes, transnational
gangs, human smuggling and trafficking, intellectual property rights, and crimes
against children including child sex tourism and possessing child pornography,
according to ICE.

"My 26 years in federal law enforcement have taken me all over the world, but
it's exciting to have the opportunity to serve in the Twin Cities and have a
more direct involvement in this region," Feinberg said in a statement.

Feinberg was previously assistant director of the Office of International
Affairs at ICE headquarters in Washington, D.C., where he controlled
international operations of 63 ICE attache offices in 44 countries.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Feinberg is special agent in charge of U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement s Homeland Security Investigations in the Twin Cities
office.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 25, 2011 Saturday

Ruben Rosario: Celebrated immigrant Vargas' success built on lies, subterfuge

BYLINE: By Ruben Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO

LENGTH: 817 words


Jose Antonio Vargas came out of the closet twice in his life. The first time was
in high school in 1999, when the then-18-year-old California high school senior
revealed he was gay to fellow classmates and teachers.

He was summarily kicked out of his home for a couple of weeks by irate
relatives.

His second coming out, by his own admission, was much tougher. The
now-30-year-old Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist revealed this week that he is
an illegal immigrant. Now he faces being kicked out of the country where he grew
up and prospered.

"I'm done running. I'm exhausted," Vargas wrote in the New York Times Magazine
last week. "I don't want that life anymore."

For some, what should follow should be straightforward: prosecute him for crimes
he committed to hide his secret, then deport him back to the Philippines. End of
story.

For others, Vargas is a courageous hero and influential voice for passage of the
DREAM Act, which has drawn bipartisan support but remains stalled in Congress.
It allows a path toward legal status for American-bred and -educated minors who
unknowingly were brought here by their parents or others.

But I have a big problem with Vargas serving as its national poster child.

I suggest folks read his story before forming judgment. A quick recap is in
order.

Vargas was 12 when his mother paid a "coyote" to fake documents in order to send
her son to America to live with his grandparents in northern California.

Vargas first became aware of his illegal status four years later when he went to
a local DMV office to acquire a driver's permit. A clerk took one look at his
green card, told him it was a fake and sent him on his way. Vargas, then 16,
confronted his relatives, who told him the truth about his immigration status.

Smart and ambitious, Vargas felt American and wanted to stay here. So he became
active in keeping his status secret and overachieved in high school. He became
the editor of the paper. He confided his status to two school officials who
later helped him obtain a driver's license from Oregon. He also secured a fake
Social Security card to help him land a job.

A talented writer, Vargas gravitated toward a career in journalism. He graduated
from San Francisco State University. He secured prestigious newspaper
internships and later jobs at the San Francisco Chronicle and the Washington
Post. In 2007, he was among a team of reporters who won journalism's top prize
for coverage of the Virginia Tech shootings.

But his career success was largely built on a shaky house of lies and subterfuge
- hardly the bedrock principles of journalism ethics.

Credibility is the bread and butter of newspaper journalism. I understand well
Vargas' motives in keeping his status a secret. He knowingly lied and used fake
documents in order to realize a little piece of the American dream. Millions do
it daily, and not just illegal immigrants. I get that.

But he should have chosen another profession that demands less than the truth.

"I decided then that if I was to succeed in a profession that is all about
truth-telling, I couldn't tell the truth about myself," he writes at one point.
That should have been his cue to try another line of work.

"I'm more disturbed with Vargas for lying to the Washington Post Co. than I am
about him breaking immigration law," writes Slate online magazine columnist Jack
Shafer. "The trouble with habitual liars, and Vargas confesses to having told
lie after lie to protect himself from deportation, is that they tend to get too
good at it...and a confessed liar is not somebody you want working on your
newspaper."

So what to do with Jose Antonio Vargas? He was educated here. He has a
marketable skill. He's not a mass killer. He's paid into the Social Security
coffers but won't be able to reap those benefits.

Given stated ICE deportation priorities - violent criminals and those who pose a
threat to national security - he's at the low end of the deportation chain. He
now has a legal team and a strategist looking out for his interests and launched
a website - defineamerican.com - to lobby for passage of the DREAM Act.

Two things I would not do: I would not make him the leading voice for the
proposed measure. His heart may be in the right place, but I believe he may hurt
the cause more than help it. And there are far more compelling stories and far
more worthy examples.

One of them is "Tomas," a young man I wrote about late last year. Joe Varley, a
construction firm owner from Faribault, Minn., is sponsoring his college
education because the kid was forthright and deserves it, and it is the right
and just thing to do.

The other thing is that Vargas should stay away from newspaper work. We've got
enough problems.

Ruben Rosario can be reached at 651-228-5454 or email at
rrosario@pioneerpress.com .

ONLINE

Read Antonio Vargas' essay at The New York Times . You can also read a previous
Rosario column on Joe Varley and "Tomas."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pioneer Press columnist Rubén Rosario.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 17, 2011 Sunday

The jobs of the future are at stake

BYLINE: By Gary Locke and Carlos Gutierrez Gary Locke is U.S. commerce secretary
and Carlos Gutierrez was U.S. commerce secretary under President George W. Bush.

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 718 words


America's economic future depends on the strength and innovative capacity of our
people. We must make the American workforce the strongest in the world. That
means educating and training our people. It also means ensuring we continue to
bring to our shores those individuals with the skills, innovative capacity and
entrepreneurial energy to create the jobs of the future.

America in the 21st century needs a 21st-century immigration policy that meets
our national security needs, but also our diverse economic needs. It's an
economic imperative.

Today, Democrats and Republicans agree that the immigration system we have is
broken, but we need to translate that agreement into action. The jobs of the
future are at stake.

And it's clear why. Immigrants have started some of our nation's most successful
businesses.

According to the National Venture Capital Association, immigrants have started
25 percent of U.S. public companies that were venture-backed - including Google,
eBay, Yahoo!, Sun Microsystems and Intel. Further, immigrant-founded,
venture-backed public companies employ 220,000 people in the United States.

The right kind of immigration policy means more jobs for Americans at home and
greater competiveness for American companies abroad. Unfortunately, that's not
the policy we now have. But we know what it would look like.

For one thing, it would ease the path for the best and brightest foreign
students to use their skills to start a business or new industry in the United
States.

Each year, we provide approximately 400,000 visas to students from around the
world to come here to study at our top universities. According to the National
Science Foundation, these students receive between 45 and 60 percent of all
engineering, mathematics, computer science, physics and economics doctorates
awarded in the United States.

But once our colleges and universities educate these bright, young minds, our
immigration laws essentially tell them to take a hike. As President Obama and
President Bush have both said, this makes no sense. That's why both have
supported changes as a part of efforts to pass comprehensive immigration reform.

We need to encourage top foreign talent in priority fields to stay in the U.S.
after their post-graduate study at American universities.

If our nation is going to avoid a reverse "brain-drain" and attract and keep
highly-skilled entrepreneurial talent here, we also need to address the visa
wait time for educated and skilled professionals.

Only 140,000 EB visas (employment-based green cards) are available annually for
immigrants in key employment categories, and the number of visas is capped at 7
percent for each country. In other words, skilled workers from India and China
must compete for the same number of visas as those in Iceland and Nepal.

These restrictive caps create an enormous backlog for high-skill immigrants from
populous countries who have filed for permanent resident visas. They could wait
for years or even decades.

In addition, it is difficult for talented entrepreneurs who wish to start
companies in the United States to enter and remain in the country.

Several approaches have been put forward to reform the current visa system and
keep America competitive in the global economy, including:

- Granting a permanent resident visa to a targeted group of qualified foreigners
who receive a graduate degree in STEM fields (Science, Technology, Engineering
and Mathematics) from an accredited U.S. university;

- Making immigrant entrepreneurs eligible for a two-year visa if a U.S. investor
is willing to invest in their start-up idea - and then allowing them to become
permanent residents if they create full-time jobs in the U.S. and produce
revenues within those two years.

- Strengthening existing temporary worker programs like the H-1B program that
allows employers to recruit workers from abroad when there are no qualified
American workers available, in the process promoting more job mobility for
workers.

As a nation of immigrants, we have always defined ourselves as a place that
attracts all those yearning to be free to pursue hopes, dreams and ideas.

If we don't want to find ourselves playing catch-up in the global competition
for the cutting-edge, high-growth industries of tomorrow, we need to do
something now.

And the truth is, we can.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday

It's foreign. But it's fun: Refugee family experiences first Minnesota State
Fair

BYLINE: By John Brewer jbrewer@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; State Fair; News

LENGTH: 1097 words


EDITOR'S NOTE

The Chuwan family is part of a wave of recent Bhutanese immigrants to the United
States, part of an effort by the U.S. government to resettle 60,000 of the
estimated 100,000 refugees living in Nepal and India. The Bhutanese government
had expelled the ethnic Nepalis from southern Bhutan during a fit of
nationalization in 1990. The Pioneer Press connected with the International
Institute of Minnesota, a social service agency on Como Avenue across from the
Minnesota State Fairgrounds, to take the family to the State Fair for the first
time.

Man Chuwan pauses as he passes the GMC car display at Nelson Street and Judson
Avenue on the Minnesota State Fairgrounds.

"New models," says Chuwan, 36, who worked as a Toyota mechanic while spending
nearly two decades in a refugee camp in Nepal.

Meandering up Judson, the father of two points to the facade of the Village
Idiot shop, where dried-grass awnings and skull-topped staffs greet customers.

"Nice decorations."

While in the refugee camp, Chuwan says, he had never heard of Minnesota - let
alone its State Fair.

"Only the United States," he says.

So when he and his family - wife Hema, 32; son Nabin, 13; and daughter Niruda, 9
- were resettled in Roseville by the International Institute of Minnesota in
mid-August, they had no idea what the Fair was.

The family remembers traveling fairs in Nepal, says Kamala Chuwan, Man's sister,
who arrived in Minnesota 14 months ago.

But they only saw those from the outside.

"They were too expensive to go in," she says. "We could only see the top of the
rides" as they swung above the fence line.

On a recent morning, a Pioneer Press reporter and photographer hosted the family
at the Fair, in part to welcome them to the state and in part to see the Great
Minnesota Get-Together through new eyes.

The lessons?

Minnesota and Nepal might be a world apart, but everybody likes deep-fried
cheese. And almost any request can be granted at the Fair.

L L L

In the Agriculture-Horticulture Building, Man pats a 500-pound pumpkin as he
tours a room of gargantuan vegetables.

"Very nice," he says.

Nabin pulls out a cellphone and starts snapping pictures.

Man points out a display of Minnesota-grown fruit.

He points to a basket of tiny Reliance peaches.

They grow the same fruit in Nepal, he says.

"Only bigger."

The first Fair food of the day is a glass of apple cider for Kamala and two
cider freezes for the kids. Nabin shrugs when asked if he likes the frozen
juice.

L L L

The next stop is the Space Tower. At the top of the needle, the family points
out the skyline of Minneapolis, downtown St. Paul and the tree-covered rise that
marks Roseville. The family leans forward to get a better look. Niruda just
stands up.

Back on the ground, the family begins an excited conversation.

"How high was it?" Kamala translates.

Three hundred feet, a ride operator replies.

L L L

They pass the Food Building. They've been at the Fair for about 45 minutes. Are
they ready for more food?

Man shakes his head, no.

Unconvinced, the Pioneer Press reporter heads for Sweet Martha's cookie stand.
The family passes around a cup of the gooey treats. After having one apiece -
and approving of their goodness - Nabin and Niruda say they'd rather have a Dole
Whip waffle cone. Pineapple. Kamala gets one, too.

The kids snack on the ice cream en route to the Department of Natural Resources
Building but can't finish it. They hand the cones to Hema, who gazes,
double-fisted, at mounted deer heads and wildlife dioramas.

L L L

Which animals do the Chuwans want to see first? Horses, cattle or swine?

The crew decides to see the Swine Barn and takes a shortcut - the alley behind
the sheep and poultry building. Farmers groom sheep on a back landing as the
animals bleat.

"Are they going to butcher them?" Kamala asks.

No, at least not at the Fair.

Entering the Swine Barn, Niruda puts on a pair of pig ears and pinches her
nostrils shut - the universal sign for "This stinks."

Man is disappointed - the promised giant boar has already left the Fairgrounds.
It's all right - Niruda leads everyone out of the barn after a couple minutes.

L L L

Hema and Kamala talk excitedly and pull out an empty plastic soda bottle as they
walk through the Cattle Barn.

Are they thirsty?

No, Kamala says.

"We want urine."

Huh?

Kamala is eight months pregnant, and Hema says the family needs a small amount
of urine from a female calf so it can conduct a Hindu baby-naming ritual.

Most of the cows in the barn are too large, they say, so the family heads to the
CHS Miracle of Birth Center.

Once inside, they hand the reporter the bottle.

Instead of collecting a sample, the reporter finds a veterinarian and explains
the request.

The doctor says the family can't get it at the Fair, but otherwise she doesn't
seem fazed.

"I know plenty of places to get urine," she says.

She meets the family and talks to Kamala. They work out an arrangement where the
vet will send a small vial of frozen urine from an outstate farm to the family
in a couple of weeks.

Hema seems pleased.

L L L

Walking through Carousel Park, the family passes a gaggle of folks sitting on
bleachers and watching a soap opera behind the WCCO-TV booth.

They don't linger and instead head to the Cheese-on-a-Stick stand near the Giant
Slide.

Kamala, Nabin and Niruda each eat lengths of the battered and deep-fried pepper
jack.

Would the kids like to try the slide?

Nabin says nothing, but Niruda shakes her head a vigorous "no."

L L L

While riding the SkyGlider up to Machinery Hill, Niruda spots a bumper boat ride
in the Kidway. Once on the ground, she insists on trying it out.

Heading south on Cooper Street, the children pass a corner souvenir stand, laden
with inflatable heroes, fur-trimmed hats and stuffed animals on leashes.

Nabin slows down and stares. His parents usher him along.

The family reaches the Kidway as a light rain starts falling. Niruda decides
against the boats and opts for a spin on the Beetle Bob's, a raucous ride that
spins kids forward and backward in undulating circles as music blares. After a
few turns, she smiles.

L L L

What do they want to do next?

"Go home," Kamala says.

Heading south to the Loop Gate on Como, Man hears the 34th Infantry Division
"Red Bull" Band playing at the Leinie Lodge bandshell.

The five Chuwans find a dry space under the awning of the beer stand as the band
jumps into "Stars and Stripes Forever."

Hema claps in rhythm with the John Philip Sousa march; Man rocks side to side.

Their favorite parts of the Fair?

For Niruda, it was the Kidway.

Hema says, "Everything."

Man sums up the experience: "Was very nice. Good."

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 9-year-old Neeta Chuwan holds on tight while riding a ride at the
Minnesota State Fair in Falcon Heights, Minn., on Tuesday, August 30, 2011.
(Pioneer Press: Ben Garvin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday

Feds: 37 criminal immigrants booked

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 173 words


U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has arrested 37 convicted criminals in
Minnesota as part of a national roundup.

The seven-day operation comes a month after Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano said officials would focus on deporting the most serious criminal
immigrants. Nationwide, 2,901 people were arrested, including 34 in Wisconsin.

Scott Baniecke, the field office director for ICE's Enforcement and Removal
Operations in Minnesota, said those arrested "are not the people we want in our
communities."

In Minnesota, 17 people were arrested in Minneapolis, seven in Rosemount, three
in Austin and two in St. Paul. The communities of Andover, Faribault, Lakeville,
Monticello, Northfield, Owatonna, Red Wing and Shakopee saw one arrest each.

The arrestees include a 50-year-old man from Mexico arrested at the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services office in Bloomington convicted of
transporting illegal aliens and importation and possession of a controlled
substance with intent to distribute.

-- Staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday

Karen immigrants celebrate new lives in Minnesota

BYLINE: By Frederick Melo fmelo@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: RAMSEY COUNTY; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Local

LENGTH: 1011 words


Saw Morrison knew he had to name his fourth and youngest child after his snowy,
adopted new homeland, even as unfamiliar as it still was.

But "Minnesota"? Too long.

Morrison, part of an early wave of Karen immigrants who relocated from Thai
refugee camps to St. Paul in 2004, celebrated his new surroundings with a
compromise. Sota August Johnny is now 6 and, unlike his father, has grown up
familiar with snow, the English language, American television and other daily
intricacies of Minnesota living.

Morrison still puzzles over much of it. Big Macs leave him hungry for home
cooking, even as his kids complain about some of the traditional dishes he whips
up. Traditionally, the Karen, an ethnic minority from southern Myanmar (formerly
known as Burma), have no surnames, forcing them to invent them on arrival in the
U.S.

Back in Myanmar, teachers were called "teacher." Children were modest and rarely
talked back to adults. The violence that forced him from his homeland is a
distant whisper to his kids.

After seven years in Minnesota, Morrison, the social services coordinator for
the Karen Organization of Minnesota, said he sometimes feels 7 years old,
discovering everything for the first time. These days, however, he has company.

The trickle of Karen (pronounced kah-REHN) that began arriving in 2000 has
become a stream. An estimated 5,500 to 6,000 Karen now live in Minnesota,
according to the Karen Organization of Minnesota, making the state home to more
Karen than any other. Most are concentrated in a few neighborhoods of St. Paul,
Roseville and Maplewood.

On Thursday evening, Morrison and the Karen organization celebrated the first
decade or so of life in Minnesota with a milestone - the group's first sit-down
gala, a $50-per-ticket affair in a ballroom at Hamline University's Klas Center.

The event was co-hosted by Hamline's McVay Youth Partnership, which works with
five Methodist and Presbyterian churches to offer tutoring and mentoring to
middle school students at four sites in St. Paul and Maplewood. Two of the sites
are largely attended by Karen students: the Arlington Hills United Methodist
Church in Maplewood and the Wheelock Parkway United Methodist Church in St.
Paul.

Jane Krentz had never heard of the Karen when she started the mentoring program
in early 2005. Today, she said, she's fallen in love with her young clients.

"We started to serve a few, and all of a sudden we had 22 (kids) on the first
day of programming at Arlington Hills" in 2008, said Krentz, the McVay Youth
Partnership director. "We thought we were going to serve one family, and the
word spread, and they all registered. It was great.

"When we started, there were about three who could really speak English, and
they interpreted for us," she continued. "Now, they're all chattering away.
There's...new refugees coming, so it's a continuous process."

Krentz has watched two of those early interpreters, sisters Dayliar Htoo, 19,
and Zin Zin Htoo, 20, graduate from high school, enter college and come back as
mentors. The sisters are the first two recipients of the McVay Scholarship,
which helps them attend Hamline University, where they're both in their second
year of studies.

Today, they're the first Karen students to enroll at Hamline and among the first
to attend a four-year private university in Minnesota, making them pioneers of
sorts for their peers and their ethnic group.

Zin Zin Htoo said she's a bit of a role model to her friends. "You have to set
your goals so you can go to college in the future."

But it hasn't been easy.

The sisters shared some of their experiences at the gala, talking about the
importance of education despite struggles acclimating to American culture and
learning English. They arrived in the U.S. in 2003, when they were 11 and 12,
respectively.

"When I first came to the United States, it wasn't what I thought it would be
like," Dayliar Htoo said in an interview. "In Thailand, I watched all these
movies with big houses. I didn't think I'd see trees, because in the movies I
saw big cities.

"When I got here, I didn't get to live in a big house, because we lived in an
apartment," she continued. "When I first saw snow, that was cool....I thought we
could eat it. It was really pretty. And then the next day I saw it got dirty,
and it was getting colder and colder, and I didn't like it anymore."

Minnesota, she said, is popular with the Karen because it is welcoming and has
generous charities and social services helping with their transition. But kids
are sometimes still bullied at school, and finding jobs is difficult for many
because of language barriers.

"Sometimes people think I'm Cambodian or Hmong. Whenever I try to say I'm Karen,
they're like, 'What's Karen?' It's OK. We're so new to this country," she said.
"When I talk to the Hmong people, they say, 'Your story is just like ours,
because we had to run...and you had to run away from the Burmese government.' "

Morrison and others said the running still hasn't ended for the relatives and
loved ones they've left behind.

The Karen are concentrated in a southern Myanmar state bordering Thailand. Since
the late 1940s, their tense relationship with their country's military
government has led to six decades of violence, as well as forced labor and other
reprisals to quash Karen independence movements or counter demands for a more
representative federal state.

Elections last November saw Myanmar's military-directed system converted to one
nominally led by civilians. But critics said this was mere window dressing.

Hundreds of thousands of Karen have crossed the border into Thailand, where they
are segregated into refugee camps.

"The camps in Thailand, you couldn't go anywhere," Morrison recalled. "You'd
have a ration. It was a safe place, but you'd be born over there and die over
there. People spent 20, 30 years."

Human Rights Watch and other organizations have documented efforts by the Thai
government to pressure the Karen to leave the camps and return to Myanmar, where
they likely face further reprisals.

Frederick Melo can be reached at 651-228-2172.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Zin Zin Htoo, one of two Karen students at Hamline University in St.
Paul, photographed in front of Old Main on Thursday, October 13, 2011. (Pioneer
Press: Scott Takushi)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

Austin, Minn. sees in uptick in reverse migration

BYLINE: By TREY MEWES Austin Daily Herald

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 1307 words


AUSTIN, Minn. Walter Schwartz knows every gas station from here to Mexico. He
knows which interstates and highways are more trouble than they're worth. He
knows which flights go from Mexico City to Minneapolis. Most of all, Schwartz
knows firsthand that people are leaving Austin. He has driven some of them back
to Mexico.

"I take them all the way to wherever they tell me to take them," Schwartz said.
"Mainly I'm taking families to be reunited."

Latinos are leaving Austin. Some were here illegally while others are scared
they won't find work or safety in town. Some say they feel discriminated against
by police and local residents. Some have lost their jobs and are going where the
work is.

Austin's Latino issues mirror a national trend of reverse immigration. With
increased attention on immigration like Alabama's policy allowing police to
check residents' status and detain undocumented immigrants without bail more
Hispanics, regardless of legal status, are feeling unsafe.

Schwartz and his friend Bernardo Reinoso run CubaMaya, a Latino services
business. Operating out of Bernado's kitchen, they help new Latino residents and
Latinos who struggle with English do anything and everything. They make dentist
appointments, drive people to the store, or translate for families, businesses,
and local government offices. Reinoso, a former medical technician, usually
helps with the paperwork, while Schwartz drives clients to their destinations.

Schwartz has helped families go back to Mexico before, but there are more
families than ever looking to leave this year. They need an easy way to get back
to Mexico for a reasonable cost and Schwartz is willing to help. He drove a
mother and her son back in late 2007 and made a handful of trips since then
until activity picked up this year.

The requests began in May, when a mother and her children wanted to be reunited
with her deported husband. There was a trip then, and another trip in June.
Soon, people were asking Schwartz to drive them south every time he came home to
Austin, and he now makes two or three trips a month. Schwartz has three families
to drive when he gets back in February.

He'll typically drive the family's car to a border town like Ciudad Juarez,
where the family switches their car's U.S. title to a Mexican one. Schwartz
usually sends necessary paperwork several weeks beforehand, so the family
doesn't have to wait. Once the car title is set, Walter drives them through the
border to their destination. He'll then take a bus to Mexico City and catch a
plane to Minneapolis, where he'll have transportation waiting.

Schwartz and Reinoso don't ask clients about their immigration status. It makes
no difference to them; they help anyone in need.

"It's not a business to get rich off of," Reinoso said. "It's something to help
people."

They listen to the stories, though.

They say many families don't feel safe here anymore. Schwartz blames increased
police attention to immigration status and said he has heard stories of racial
profiling. He said he has been a victim of police profiling several times,
occasions when police have stopped him and, checking his license, find his name
is Walter Schwartz.

"They assume I am Hector, Mario, or Jose," Schwartz said. "I can see (their)
eyes going 'Whoa, I caught this guy with this fake ID.'"

Police made a concerted effort last year to catch more people with aggravated
forgery charges, according to Schwartz, Reinoso and other residents.

"There was a period of time when there was an influx of aggravated forgery
charges here in Austin, which were Latinos," said local attorney Dan Donnelly,
who practices immigration law. "It did result in a number of families leaving."

Local police say there was no concerted effort to make aggravated forgery
arrests, which would include undocumented workers committing identity theft.

"There was no effort to do that," said Police Chief Brian Krueger.

There are other crimes that fall under the aggravated forgery heading, but a
majority in Mower County involve people who are in the U.S. illegally. Austin
police made 100 arrests for aggravated forgery in 2010, compared to 75 in 2009,
according to Mower County court records. Mower County deputies made eight
arrests in 2010, compared to three in 2009.

It is common practice for Austin and Mower County law enforcement to check a
person's status if they are stopped or arrested, said Sheriff Terese Amazi.
While Schwartz and Reinoso said police have gone to homes to make arrests and to
check status, the sheriff said there would have to be a crime committed before
they check status.

"It would be as a result of something," Amazi said.

There are rumors people are losing their jobs at local plants as well, due to
increased hiring scrutiny amid federal immigration programs. Displaced workers
who fear being fired and/or deported are going to Arcadia, Wis., to work for the
Ashley Furniture plant or to Postville, Iowa, or St. Joseph, Mo., to work at
other meat processing plants.

"Everyone is moving away," said Juan, a former employee at Quality Pork
Processors, Inc. (Juan asked that his real name not be used, because he was in
Austin illegally.) He recently quit his job after more than 10 years at the
plant and is looking for work. He has relatives in Mexico to support and will
most likely move to a different town to get a job.

It's difficult to track how many families have left. The rumors seem to fly in
the face of Austin's reputation as an area increasing in population. Austin's
Hispanic population has more than doubled over the past 10 years, from about
1,400 to almost 3,800. This mirrors a statewide trend, as Minnesota's Hispanic
population has risen more than 74 percent over the past decade.

About 15 to 20 clients have told the Welcome Center in Austin they were moving
away, said Jake Vela, executive director. Vela couldn't say for sure if there
were more leaving.

"Some people don't let us know," he said.

Austin Public School officials said that with children coming in and out of the
district all the time, it's tough to track where students and families are
going. District officials say there isn't a significant increase or decrease in
Hispanic students, just a steady increase in the district's overall student
population.

Local officials and community leaders have heard the rumors of Hispanic families
leaving, and of refugees from Sudan, Liberia and Burma coming into town.

"The city can't really do anything about it," said Mayor Tom Stiehm. "It's
obviously something of a work situation."

Stiehm and other community leaders said they are pleased more people are coming
into town and are working to build bridges with new residents. They don't think
many Latinos will leave Austin, or at least not as many as the rumors say.

"We have to continue to pay attention to the Hispanic community," Stiehm said.

Some residents are worried families who go will never return. Riverland
Community College student Diana Ramirez said her cousin recently moved to
Marshalltown, Iowa, to find work, rather than stay in Austin. Ramirez remembers
living in Marshalltown with her family shortly before Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials raided the Swift & Company pork processing plant in
December 2006.

"There was rumors like there is here that a lot of the workers were going to be
unemployed," Ramirez said. "It was just like what happened here."

Ramirez recently visited Marshalltown. Though the city's Hispanic population
more than doubled from 3,265 in 2000 to 6,632 in 2010, Ramirez said the town
feels different than when she lived there.

"You go there and it's not the same anymore," she said. "It seems like the same
thing is happening here. A lot of people are leaving their jobs, a lot are
getting fired, and some are waiting for the best."


Information from: Austin Daily Herald, http://www.austindailyherald.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday

Gingrich immigration stance gives opening to rivals

BYLINE: By Juana Summers Politico

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 862 words


Newt Gingrich may now have a Rick Perry problem.

The former House speaker diverged from his rivals in the Republican presidential
field Tuesday, declining to say that he would support the deportation of the
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants living in America.

"I don't see how the, the party that says it's the party of the family is going
to adopt an immigration policy which destroys families that have been here a
quarter-century," he said Tuesday. "And I'm prepared to take the heat for
saying, 'Let's be humane in enforcing the law without giving them citizenship
but by finding a way to create legality so they are not separated by their
families.' "

Just a day after Gingrich told a New Hampshire crowd that he was the standout
debate performer in the Republican field, his fellow GOP candidates were quickly
seizing on the immigration position he articulated Tuesday night, charging that
he is out of step with the conservative base.

It's not the first time a candidate has suggested a moderate stance on
immigration during a GOP debate, and paid the price. The lightning rod issue
also caused problems for Texas Gov. Perry, who is still answering for a
statement he made during a late September debate in which he said Republicans
who disagree with a Texas law allowing undocumented immigrants to pay in-state
tuition "don't have a heart."

Gingrich's opponents jumped at the chance to exploit his statements.

Before the candidates left the Washington debate stage, Michele Bachmann's
campaign blasted out an email declaring that, while speaker, Gingrich
"ultimately failed to secure the border or significantly staunch the flow of
illegal immigrants into the United States. In fact, he helped legalize hundreds
of thousands."

Bachmann spokeswoman Alice Stewart, in an interview following the debate,
doubled down on that criticism.

"Speaker Gingrich (showed) he's wrong on the issue of immigration and amnesty's
not the way to deal with it," she said. "Amnesty is certainly not the way to go
about doing it."

An adviser to Mitt Romney, who has drilled Perry for weeks on immigration, said
Gingrich did himself no favors, particularly in socially conservative Iowa,
where the first caucuses will be held.

"Gingrich really hurt himself in Iowa on immigration," said Romney adviser Ron
Kaufman.

Romney spokesman Eric Fehrnstrom also played up Gingrich's comments, seeking to
draw a clear contrast between Gingrich and Romney.

"Mitt Romney is against amnesty, and Newt Gingrich made it very clear he
supported amnesty," he said.

Gingrich was first asked by debate moderator Wolf Blitzer what he would do as
president "with these millions of illegal immigrants, many of whom have been in
this country for a long time."

Gingrich said he favors a "comprehensive approach that starts with controlling
the border."

"I believe ultimately you have to find some system. Once you've put every piece
in place, which includes the guest-worker program, you need something like a
World War II Selective Service Board that, frankly, reviews the people who are
here," he said. Gingrich emphasized that those in the country illegally who
nevertheless had deep ties to the community and paid taxes deserved a path
toward citizenship.

Bachmann pounced, voicing her disagreement with Gingrich and hitting him for
supporting a portion of the federal DREAM Act.

"I don't agree that you would make 11 million workers legal, because that, in
effect, is amnesty. And I also don't agree that you would give the DREAM Act on
a federal level. And those are two things that I believe that the speaker had
been for, and he can speak for himself," she said.

Romney also piled on, saying that allowing some people to remain in the United
States would act as a "magnet" that would encourage more illegal immigration.

"People respond to incentives. And if you can become a permanent resident of the
United States by coming here illegally, you'll do so," Romney said.

But Gingrich did not retreat from his stance despite having clearly excited his
opponents.

"If you go and ask any Republican how they feel about someone who has been
living in the United States for 25 years, who has ties to the community, has
demonstrated that they're a good member - a good neighbor, versus somebody who's
a thug, a criminal, a member of a gang, I think what you want to do is send the
thug back home. It's a very reasonable approach, a very realistic approach,"
said Gingrich spokesman R.C. Hammond after the debate. "None of that matters,
that scenario doesn't come into play until we secure the border. Newt has been
very clear since he's become a candidate that you must secure the Southern
border. It can be done. If we can win World War II, we can secure the border."

A spokesman for Perry, who has struggled to connect with voters on the
immigration issue, also hit Gingrich.

"We've been very clear that we're opposed to amnesty, Gov. Perry has always been
opposed to amnesty," spokesman Rob Johnson said. "The federal government has
been an abject failure at securing our borders. Gov. Perry, when he becomes
president, will secure that border. As far as the Gingrich campaign, we'll let
them talk about amnesty on their own."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Minneapolis: Plea bargain may have been reached with terror suspect

BYLINE: By David Hanners dhanners@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; West Metro

LENGTH: 911 words


Federal prosecutors apparently have cut a deal with the most recent Somali
immigrant charged in the government's "Operation Rhino" investigation into local
support for the terrorist group al-Shabaab.

At a court hearing Wednesday morning that lasted barely four minutes, an
assistant U.S. attorney and the defense lawyer for Ahmed Hussein Mahamud told a
federal magistrate judge that they expected to finalize a plea bargain later in
the day.

By midafternoon, Chief U.S. District Judge Michael Davis had scheduled a hearing
for Monday to allow Mahamud to change his plea to guilty.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney's office said she couldn't confirm or deny
that a plea bargain had been worked out. Defense attorney Rick Mattox didn't
return a phone call.

Mahamud, 27, is accused of two counts of conspiracy, one count of providing
material support to terrorists and one count of providing material support to a
foreign terrorist organization, as defined by the U.S. Immigration and
Nationality Act.

The last time he appeared in court, at a hearing in July, the courtroom was
filled with his supporters and many waited in the hallway outside because there
was no room for them inside. Wednesday morning's brief hearing was attended by
the defendant, the lawyers, three government workers and a court security
officer.

Mahamud, who had lived in Eden Prairie but now lives in Columbus, Ohio, was
indicted in June on suspicion of aiding al-Shabaab, which is fighting to rule
Somalia, an African nation of 9.3 million people. The group controls much of the
southern part of the country; the U.S. government considers it a terrorist
organization.

Mahamud was the 20th local person charged in the government's investigation into
the exodus of young Somali men from the Twin Cities to fight for al-Shabaab in
Somalia. All but two of those cases stemmed from a probe the FBI dubbed
"Operation Rhino."

If there were a plea bargain, Mahamud would become the seventh defendant to make
a deal with the government. Of the others charged, 10 are fugitives and one
awaits trial.

Federal prosecutors believe two of the fugitives have died abroad, but their
cases remain on the books.

The indictment provided few details of what Mahamud is alleged to have done. It
claimed he provided "financial support and personnel" to al-Shabaab in Minnesota
"on or about a date unknown, and on or about April 20, 2009, and July 27, 2009."

The charges didn't say how much money or how many people he allegedly provided.

Wednesday's hearing was held for Mattox and Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles
Kovats Jr. to argue the remaining pretrial motions. On Jan. 18, Davis had ruled
on two major defense motions - a request for access to classified evidence
obtained by electronic surveillance and a motion to suppress evidence obtained
from wiretaps on Mahamud's telephone.

The government had filed a notice saying it planned to use evidence obtained
clandestinely under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. In justifying its
actions, prosecutors filed a memorandum that was itself classified.

Davis denied Mattox's request for access to the classified evidence and refused
to suppress evidence gained through wiretaps. Nine days after the judge's
ruling, Mattox sent U.S. Magistrate Judge Franklin Noel a letter saying that
Mahamud was waiving all his unheard motions and that the case might soon be
resolved.

At Wednesday's hearing, Mattox told Noel that he and the government had
discussed a plea bargain and that "I believe there'll be a plea agreement
presented to us later today."

Kovats agreed, and told Noel that the government, like the defense, was
withdrawing all its pretrial motions.

The first of the six "Rhino" defendants who have pleaded guilty so far did so in
February 2009, but to date, only one has been sentenced. That was a Chanhassen
surgical technician who admitted he made false statements to the FBI. In July
2010, he was sentenced to four months behind bars and four months of home
detention.

After Mahamud was charged and taken into custody, Noel released him to a halfway
house in St. Paul. Later, he let him return to Ohio for the birth of his first
child.

Somalia has been in anarchy since civil war erupted in 1988, and the government
fell in a coup three years later. Since then, different factions have battled
the U.N.-backed Transitional Federal Government for control of the country.

Al-Shabaab controls much of southern Somalia, including some key ports, while
the transitional government controls a small portion of the capital of
Mogadishu.

For a time, al-Shabaab had control of Mogadishu, too, but in 2006, the
transitional government brought in troops from neighboring Ethiopia to regain
the capital. Some Somalis viewed the foreign troops as invaders.

Al-Shabaab issued a call for fighters to repel the troops, who they branded
infidels. (Somalia is predominately Muslim; Ethiopia is largely Christian.) The
FBI claimed the recruitment stretched to Minnesota, home of an estimated 32,000
Somali immigrants.

Starting in 2007, some young Somali men living in the Twin Cities began leaving
to train with al-Shabaab. Federal officials have said more than 20 have traveled
abroad.

In February 2008, the U.S. State Department designated al-Shabaab a foreign
terrorist organization, making it illegal to provide it money or other aid.

The transitional government retook portions of Mogadishu in 2009, and Ethiopian
troops left the country.

David Hanners can be reached at 612-338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday

Douglas Baker: We're turning away entrepreneurs. Fix our immigration policy

BYLINE: By Douglas M. Baker Jr.

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 839 words


Last week's jobs report said employers added only 69,000 jobs in May. This was a
disappointing statistic, but also a somewhat misleading one as it implies a
simplicity that doesn't exist. In fact, hundreds of thousands of jobs were both
created and eliminated last month. For perspective, in 2011, 13.9 million jobs
were created and 15.7 million were eliminated.

Life is fairly interesting on the enterprise level, as well. Even if you look at
what you might think is the most stable level, big companies on the Fortune 500
list, you will note on average, as many as 38 percent of the companies on the
list in any given year don't make the list the next year. Of the original 500
listed in 1955, only 71 remain.

The point of these statistics is to illustrate that we live in a very dynamic
world. Our economy is constantly evolving, and to continue to thrive, people,
companies and countries need to evolve, too. One of the reasons for our
country's past success is that we allowed, even encouraged, a fluid economy so
we could adjust more effectively than other countries as the world around us
changed.

Immigration has been one of the great tools that enabled us to evolve and adapt.
Over the years, immigration has been a key driver of our economic and cultural
success as a nation. It brought us new energy, new talent and new ideas. But
now, when the skills, ambition and drive of immigrants are needed more than ever
to fuel our growth, we are closing our borders.

The history of immigrant contributions is clear. Ninety of the companies
currently on the Fortune 500 were founded by immigrants, including Intel,
Google, Yahoo, Sun Microsystems and eBay. Immigrants started 28 percent of all
the new companies created last year. And many of the products sold by Fortune
500 companies were created by immigrants -- in fact, the U.S. Patent Office
reports that immigrants obtain patents at roughly double the rate of
non-immigrants.

We unfortunately have a situation now that is hurting our country.
Entrepreneurs, university graduates and highly skilled workers who want to
immigrate to this country can't get the visas they need to work here. As a
result, underneath the alphabet soup of our bureaucracy is a story of talented
people going elsewhere to make their fortunes. Both the so-called "investor
visa" or EB5, and the visa for people of exceptional ability, the EB2, are
extremely difficult to get. More than 40 percent of our engineering graduate
students are foreign-born but many are forced to return home after graduation
because they cannot get a green card or an H1-B visa. So these highly skilled
people are starting companies, creating jobs and stimulating the economy in
other countries.

At Ecolab, the company I lead, our research and development operations are one
of the key value drivers of our company and create the products that allow us to
employ more than 40,000 people worldwide. The work of one top scientist can
create dozens or even hundreds of jobs. Yet it can be very difficult for
scientists from countries such as India or China to get a green card or an H1-B
visa. This impacts Ecolab greatly as these countries often provide candidates
with the technical expertise we need in IT and research and development.
Recently we acquired a company that had built an R&D center in Pune, India,
employing dozens of scientists, nearly all of whom were educated in the United
States. Why? Because they couldn't get visas to work in the United States. So
instead of living here, shopping here and paying taxes here, all that economic
activity is happening in India -- and if they leave us to become entrepreneurs,
they will start their companies in India.

The issue isn't only at the highest education levels. Many of our customers in
food production, hospitality and health care, despite persistently high national
unemployment, struggle to find workers to process poultry, clean rooms, staff
kitchens, provide basic nursing care and do other jobs that American workers are
less willing to take. A recent government estimate found that even during this
recession, there are an estimated 3 million jobs that American workers cannot or
will not fill. Yet our immigration laws turn many of the workers we need away
because they are shaped by fear and emotion, not history, reason or economics.

Our country was built by the energy and determination of immigrants who came
here to create a better life for themselves and for their families. Immigration
is what built this country and it is what will propel us forward if we let it.
Today's immigrants continue to demonstrate that they, too, have the ideas,
energy and drive to succeed, at both the lower rungs and the highly skilled
segments of our economy. Now is not the time to turn inward and close the doors
to those who want to live and work here. In fact, if more immigrants can bring
their dreams to our country, we all will share in a brighter future.

Douglas M. Baker Jr. is the chairman and CEO of Ecolab and a member of the
Partnership for a New American Economy.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

Immigration agency seeks help to ID youth in photos

BYLINE: By Mara H. Gottfried mgottfried@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Wisconsin; Crime and Court Stories; Minnesota-Twin Cities;
State

LENGTH: 181 words


Federal officials released photos of someone who appears to be a boy or young
man Tuesday, June 19, and asked for help to identify him, saying he "may need
law enforcement assistance, but may not be able to request it."

The person might now live, or have previously lived, in Minnesota or Western
Wisconsin, according to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The agency's
Homeland Security Investigations "is urgently seeking the public's help to
identify the pictured individual," a press statement said.

An ICE spokesman said he couldn't disclose any information about the case.

Tips will remain anonymous, ICE said. Anyone with information is asked to call
the ICE Tip Line, which is staffed 24 hours a day, at 866-347-2423. Locally,
people can also call Homeland Security Investigations at 952-853-2690 and
selection option 1 and then option 4 to leave a message for the duty agent.

Tips can be emailed toSPMduty@ice.dhs.gov or submitted online
atwww.ice.gov/tips/

Mara H. Gottfried can be reached at 651-228-5262. Follow her
attwitter.com/MaraGottfried ortwitter.com/ppUsualSuspects .

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Federal officials are trying to identify the person pictured, who they
said might need law enforcement assistance.
Federal officials are trying to identify the person pictured, who they said
might need law enforcement assistance.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday

St. Paul program helps immigrant girls with language, confidence

BYLINE: By Josie Clarey jclarey@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: NORTH ZONE STORIES; Ramsey County; Education; Local

LENGTH: 662 words


When 19-year-old Xiong Mee Thao emigrated to the U.S. from Thailand five years
ago, she didn't know anyone or the language, and she quickly fell into
depression.

But with a little help from family, teachers and Girls Getting Ahead in
Leadership, a program dedicated to helping immigrants and refugees boost their
language skills, Thao's confidence has skyrocketed.

"Compared from now to where I was at, I think I've improved a lot," said Thao,
of St. Paul. "I feel very proud of myself right now."

Thao is a participant in GGAL's six-week summer program geared toward helping
girls and young women find a new identity in their new country through art and
leadership activities.

GGAL is a program organized and run by Women's Initiative for Self Empowerment,
or WISE, in St. Paul. The organization was started in 1995 by a group of
immigrant women who wanted to help others prepare for life in the U.S.

"If they can have jobs and be in leadership positions, their quality of life is
going to be greater and they'll be able to contribute to their community as well
as society," said Julie Thelen, communications manager for WISE.

The GGAL program geared toward girls in high school started in 2003 for the same
reasons, primarily reaching out to Hmong, Hispanic, Indian and Somalian groups.
Women and girls take on very different roles when they move to the U.S., Thelen
said.

"Their families maintain their cultures, but now that they're here in the United
States and interacting with U.S. students, they have to learn the language; they
have to find a way to find their niche in life here," she said.

One of the biggest challenges to helping young girls find their identity in a
new country is boosting language skills and confidence, said Sarah Gerdes,
program coordinator for GGAL. The transformation of the girls is a personal
experience because GGAL provides one-on-one mentoring, she said.

"It's not just providing a drop-in center for the girls to do homework help,"
she said. "It's really intentional with the workshops. We're constantly in
contact with them over the phone and through email, so you really get to know
each girl's story."

The close connections are what make the program actually work, said Danait
Teklay, a Macalester College student and GGAL mentor.

"A lot of times in the public school system, they don't get that one-on-one
attention that almost forces them, in a good way, to come out of that shell,"
Teklay said. "They might just be grouped into the large group where it doesn't
really foster that."

Adriana Hernandez, a student from Mexico now living in St. Paul, didn't even
know how the education system worked when she moved to the U.S. two years ago.

This fall, she'll be attending St. Paul College for her first semester of higher
education.

"When I first came here, it was really bad because my English was not good
enough to speak to other people," said Hernandez, who will be studying to become
a teacher.

After attending GGAL workshops during the school year, Hernandez said, she
learned a lot about her future, from applying for scholarships to using a
checkbook.

"It really helps us to develop ourselves," she said about GGAL. "It helped me
improve my confidence."

GGAL provides academic workshops to four schools and serves around 60 girls each
year. Thelen said they've gotten requests from schools to have their services
and will expand as quickly as they can.

"There is a huge need for what we do," she said.

The summer workshop will close with the Cultural Art Imbizo, a community
festival featuring the participants' art. The girls will showcase and speak
about the art they've created in the summer workshop, Thelen said. Local
artists, cultural performances, vendors, kids art activities and a silent
auction will also be a part of the summer-end celebration.

The Imbizo is Aug. 18 from 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at Hamline Park Plaza, 570
Asbury St. in St. Paul.

Josie Clarey can be reached at 651-228-5583. Follow her
attwitter.com/ejosieclarey .

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nineteen year-old Xiong Thao displays and talks about an "All About Me"
poster she made which exhibits where she came from, and where she wants to be in
the future at a Girls Getting Ahead in Leadership workshop at Hancock Recreation
Center in St. Paul, Wednesday, July 11, 2012. The year-round program is for
immigrant and refugee young women. (Pioneer Press: Chris Polydoroff)
Participants share a laugh during an icebreaker activity at a Girls Getting
Ahead in Leadership workshop at Hancock Recreation Center in St. Paul,
Wednesday, July 11, 2012. The year-round program is for immigrant and refugee
young women. Second from left in glasses is Xiong Thao, 19, and far right is
Adriana Hernandez, 18. (Pioneer Press: Chris Polydoroff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

Immigration activist briefly detained over driver's license

BYLINE: Katie Glueck Politico

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 447 words


Jose Antonio Vargas, the writer and activist who went public last year with his
status as an undocumented immigrant, was arrested for a driving infraction in
Minnesota on Friday, Oct. 5, but federal immigration authorities did not detain
him or take any other action, officials said Saturday.

Vargas, a former Washington Post reporter who revealed his status in the New
York Times Magazine and touched off a debate in the journalistic community,
initially was pulled over by a state trooper for driving while wearing head
phones, said Lt. Eric Roeske, public information officer for the Minnesota State
Patrol.

"He did produce a Washington driver's license" after being pulled over, Roeske
said. "When the trooper ran the license, it showed the status (of the license)
was canceled. It also indicated there may have been fraudulent activity
associated with the license. That's why (it might have been) canceled. That
triggered the trooper to look into that further and contact ICE (U.S Immigration
and Customs Enforcement)."

Roeske, who had no details about the possible "fraudulent activity" regarding
the license, said Vargas, who was in Minnesota for a speaking engagement that he
ended up missing, "spoke to our captain that works with ICE, he had some
conversations with Mr. Vargas." Roeske said he didn't "know what the nature of
that conversation was."

An ICE official with knowledge of the situation said in an email that "Mr.
Vargas was not arrested by ICE and no detainer was issued."

An immigration detainer is a notice issued from the Department of Homeland
Security to federal, state and local law enforcement agencies that tells them,
"ICE intends to assume custody of an individual in (those agencies') custody,"
according to the ICE website.

Vargas was arrested by the State Patrol and jailed for not having a valid
driver's license, Roeske said. He was released several hours later and is slated
to appear in District Court on Oct. 18, according to MinnPost, the nonprofit
publication that reported the story Friday.

Vargas did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Roeske said that it's not unusual for officers to arrest people, especially
those from out of state, who can't provide valid identification.

"I can't say either way if that conversation (with the State Patrol's liaison to
ICE) had any impact in booking him into jail, but it does not appear to be a
factor," Roeske said.

Vargas was in town to deliver a speech at Carleton College. A video of students
waiting for Vargas is available online. A school official told them, in a clip
captured on the video, that Vargas had encountered a personal emergency and sent
his apologies for not making the event.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved
