
                               1 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 23, 2009 Thursday

Opinion: Time is right for immigration reform

BYLINE: By T. Alexander Aleinikoff

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 756 words


The Obama administration recently signaled interest in beginning a discussion on
comprehensive immigration reform before year's end. It might seem that a severe
economic downtown is not the best time for a major legislative initiative on
immigration. But starting this conversation now makes sense for several reasons.

First, the level of undocumented migration into the United States has dropped
because of the downturn. Second, one of the major issues that served as an
obstacle in 2007 appears to have been removed. The 2007 legislation included a
large-scale temporary worker program, which most labor unions opposed. But
immigrant advocacy groups have tabled these proposals, recognizing the
difficulty of pushing such a program with unemployment approaching double
digits.

The most difficult part of a discussion on immigration reform is what to do
about the 10 million to 12 million undocumented workers and their families
living in the United States. Republican opposition to an "amnesty" program was a
major reason for the defeat of the 2007 reform proposal. The economic crisis is
sure to fuel that same opposition: Why, it will be asked, should we give
undocumented workers a legal status that permits them to compete for jobs with
unemployed Americans?

Some of the short-term answers will be persuasive. A legalization program, by
taking workers out of the shadows, will free up the entrepreneurial spirit of
individuals who have already shown motivation and hard work in coming to the
United States. Furthermore, a legal work force will be better able to advocate
for "legal workplaces," where employers comply with wage, safety and other labor
laws.

A better answer focuses on the longer term. Comprehensive immigration reform
should seek to accomplish two major goals: providing some form of legal status
to undocumented workers who meet certain conditions (knowledge of English,
payment of taxes, absence of a criminal record) and ensuring that we don't
immediately see the buildup of a new undocumented population   due to continued
lax enforcement and the perceived likelihood of a future legalization program.

It is clear that we cannot credibly deter the hiring of unauthorized immigrants
unless the government implements a system that can accurately verify the
authenticity of documents that are presented to employers. Some members of
Congress are urging the extension of the voluntary verification system   called
E-Verify   to all U.S. employers.

But it is far too soon for this. E-Verify cannot, at this point, adequately
protect against "false negatives." Even if E-Verify is correct 99 percent of the
time, imposing the system nationwide on a work force of 150 million means that
hundreds of thousands of workers could still be denied jobs because of errors in
the databases. Furthermore, E-Verify cannot detect identity theft or identity
"borrowing."

Nor are federal agencies prepared for a massive legalization. A program that
could provide legal status to 10 million or more people would require the hiring
of a large number of federal employees; the forging of public-private
partnerships; and the development of technology for online applications, systems
of document verification and record-keeping.

Immigration reform legislation could link these two goals, authorizing the start
of a legalization program once a reliable verification system has been
developed. Ultimately, that could result in a dramatic decrease in the
undocumented population in the United States and fair reason to believe that
future undocumented entry could be deterred.

Another benefit is that immigration raids on workplaces and communities could
stop. Targeting employers who violate immigration laws makes good sense and is
consistent with the long-term goal of legal workplaces. Less justifiable is
disrupting communities and families by deporting workers who would be likely to
receive legal status if Congress enacted a comprehensive reform package.

The substantial lead time needed for creating a credible verification system and
an effective legalization program provides another argument for beginning the
conversation on comprehensive immigration legislation soon. And by the time
these new programs would come into force, improvement in the economy would
probably make legalization efforts less controversial.


T. Alexander Aleinikoff is dean of Georgetown University Law Center and a member
of the board of trustees of the Migration Policy Institute. He wrote this
article for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday

News In Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News wire services

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 935 words


washington, d.c.

Briefs Head

The U.S. government arrested and deported record numbers of illegal immigrants
nearly 350,000   in the past year, authorities say. It also has naturalized a
record number of new Americans during the same time period, more than 1 million.

Bush administration officials consider these to be great accomplishments within
a system that President-elect Barack Obama calls "broken and overwhelmed" on his
transition Web site.

"We are seeing the kinds of results that the country hasn't seen for many
years," Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said last month.

When Congress failed to pass comprehensive immigration reform in 2007, the
administration kicked up its enforcement of the immigration laws already on the
books. The government also hired more people to process applications for
immigrants who want to enter the country legally.

These enhancements led to increases in arrests of illegal immigrants and
employers who hire them; decreases in the amount of time it takes to process
immigration applications   it now takes up to10 months for naturalization
applications, compared with 16-18 months before that. U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services has reduced its backlog to 1.1 million, which is down from
its biggest backlog of 3.6 million in 2004; it's on track to eliminate the
backlog by October 2009.

The government recently awarded a five-year, $491 million contract to IBM to
convert a paper-based immigration processing system to an electronic system.

There are about 11 million illegal immigrants living in the U.S., which reflects
no increase from the previous year, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. It was
recently discovered that Obama's aunt is among the estimated 11 million people
living in the country illegally.

Briefs Head

The Bush administration will recommend that Congress give up the idea of a
second nuclear waste dump, dropping a grand bargain struck in the 1980s, and
instead vote to enlarge the repository now proposed in Nevada, the director of
the Energy Department's civilian radioactive waste management program said
Thursday.

The director, Edward Sproat, who is in charge of work on the proposed repository
at Yucca Mountain, 100 miles northwest of Las Vegas, said that the process of
trying to open one repository had been so slow and expensive that this was not a
good time to start looking for another.

Originally, the government promised utility companies that it would begin
accepting nuclear waste in 1998 and began accepting payments from them of
one-tenth of a cent per kilowatt-hour generated at their reactors. The
government now predicts that a waste repository will open by 2020 at the
earliest, and clearing the backlog could take many decades. Because of the
delay, the government will owe commercial damages to the utilities of $11
billion or more.

Sproat, who spoke Thursday at a conference on nuclear waste conducted by the
Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the inventory of waste
would reach 70,000 tons by 2010.

Briefs Head

After years of legal clashes over whether detainees have the right to contest
their detention in court, a federal judge Thursday opened the first hearing into
the government's justification for holding suspects at the naval base at
Guanta´namo Bay, Cuba.

But after opening statements that did not detail the evidence, the judge,
Richard Leon of federal district court, closed the courtroom, saying the
evidence was classified. The government says the six men whose cases are being
heard were planning to go to Afghanistan to fight the United States and that one
of them was a member of Al-Qaida.

"The discussion of these issues will have to take place in a closed courtroom
outside the presence of the public and the detainees," Leon said. The hearing is
expected to last a week.

If the men testify, that "will also have to be behind closed doors because of
the sensitivity of whatever it is they might say," he said.

In addition, the detainees' attorneys have not been permitted to discuss the
classified evidence with their clients, six Algerian former residents of Bosnia
who have been held since 2002.

Their case was the first to reach a factual hearing since the Supreme Court
ruled in June that detainees at Guanta´namo are entitled to seek their freedom
through federal habeas corpus cases. The justices' ruling, which was named for
one of the six Algerians, Lakhdar Boumediene, opened the door for more than 200
habeas corpus claims.

south dakota

Briefs Head

A wintry blast of punishing wind and close to 4 feet of snow in places pummeled
the Northern Plains on Thursday, stranding unknown numbers of motorists for a
day or more and knocking out power to thousands.

State officials said some people could be without power for days, but they had a
simple message for anyone thinking of trying to drive in western South Dakota's
blizzard: Don't.

"This is a dangerous storm," Gov. Mike Rounds told reporters in a telephone
conference call Thursday evening. "Western South Dakota is basically under a
no-travel advisory."

A long stretch of Interstate 90 was closed, and Rounds said most of the dozens
of vehicles stranded along the stretch of highway had not been moved. Some have
been stranded for more than 24 hours, he said, adding that search teams can't
get to them because of zero visibility.

Dozens of schools, agencies, businesses and attractions, including Mount
Rushmore National Memorial, were closed because of the weather, which included
wind gusts higher than 50 mph.

The storm also closed Interstate 80 in eastern Wyoming and western Nebraska.

From Mercury News wire services.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

Honda introduces bill that would make sweeping changes in legal immigration

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: SPORTS; Breaking; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special
Reports; News; State; Local; Business; Entertainment

LENGTH: 1018 words


To ensure that issues involving legal immigration don't get lost in the fiery
debate about illegal immigration, Silicon Valley Congressman Mike Honda today
will introduce a bill that would give green-card holders the same rights as
citizens to bring their spouses and children to the U.S.

The wide-ranging legislation, which already has about 50 House co-sponsors and
the support of powerful groups such as the NAACP and the Anti-Defamation League,
is expected to help build momentum for "comprehensive immigration reform" this
year. Two years ago, a reform bill collapsed in Congress amid criticism that it
was an "amnesty bill" for undocumented immigrants.

Honda's bill also includes a controversial provision to allow gays and lesbians
to sponsor the immigration of same-sex "permanent partners." That issue gained
traction recently when immigration authorities tried to deport a lesbian mother
from Pacifica to the Philippines.

The law would also increase numerical caps on the number of visas for countries
such as Mexico, the Philippines, China and India. People from those countries
hoping to immigrate to the U.S. routinely face waits of more than a decade in a
system with a backlog of 5.8 million people.

"We're a nation that believes in family values, so to say this is not important
to talk about means" that some politicians and activists "are talking out of
both sides of their mouths," Honda, D-Campbell, said Wednesday.

But opposing groups argue that the number of immigrants permitted to come to the
U.S. each year   roughly a million   is already too high. They are vowing to
fight the proposals as strongly as they have fought amnesty for illegal
immigrants.

Enough people to fill "a new San Jose are moving to the United States every
single year," said Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, or FAIR.

"These kind of numbers have an impact on schools, health care and every
institution in the country   an impact lost on people in Congress like Rep.
Honda," Mehlman said. "All of these proposals seem to disregard the fact that we
now have 9 percent unemployment in this country."

Shrewd move

But Paul Donnelly, a longtime pro-immigration activist and lobbyist in
Washington, D.C., said "Honda has done a very shrewd thing here."

"Legal immigration tends to be left out of the immigration debate because the
elephant in the room is legalization of undocumented immigrants," he said. "But
here's a comprehensive list of things that need to be fixed. It's the right
debate to have."

Honda's bill, Donnelly said, will complement another recently introduced bill by
Sen. Robert Menendez, D-New Jersey, which is supported by Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid. That bill did not contain the same-sex provision, which is being
debated separately in another bill by Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont. The various
bills are expected to reach the floors of the two houses by the fall.

Vivek Jayanand of Santa Clara said he is happy that an issue that so deeply
affects him will soon be taken up by Congress. He is among a group of more than
a million legal, permanent U.S. residents forced to live without their spouses
and in many cases their children. These green-card holders often wait five to
seven years for their immediate family members to come to the United States.

Jayanand, a 32-year-old hardware engineer at Marvell Semiconductor, married his
wife, an Indian physician, in February 2007. He said the earliest she will be
allowed to come is the end of 2010, after Jayanand becomes a citizen   unless
the "incredibly frustrating" law is changed before then.

Such waits are intolerable in a society that believes in fairness and in
families, Honda and pro-immigration activists contend.

"The nation's strongest family units are immigrant families," he said. "When we
talk about the tapestry of our country and its fabric," immigration helps "weave
us tighter together."

Fear of fraud

Groups such as the American Civil Liberties Union and gay rights organizations
praised the provision allowing the immigration of "permanent partners"   defined
as someone 18 years or older in a "committed, intimate relationship" in which
both parties "intend a lifelong commitment."

"It's very exciting," said Judy Rickard, who recently retired from San Jose
State University because she couldn't sponsor her partner of four years, a
Briton, for immigration. "She's only allowed to visit in the U.S. for six months
at a time, so we are probably going to have to live in another country."

But groups like FAIR and the Washington, D.C.-based Center for Immigration
Studies say such a policy would be an open invitation to fraud, in addition to
letting the culture wars be played out in immigration policy.

Massachusetts, Iowa, Connecticut, Vermont, Maine and (as of Wednesday) New
Hampshire now permit gay marriage. But the issue is still being fiercely fought
in California and other states.

"Our view is that until we have determined what constitutes a marriage,
immigration policy should stay out of social policy," said FAIR's Mehlman.

Honda said he realizes that "some people wince when they see that provision
because they know it's going to be a tough dialogue," he said. "But I think it's
based on the principal of doing the right thing."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5552.


     ·    "Recapture" unused family-based and employment-based visas previously
          allocated by Congress. Allow green-card holders to reunite with their
          spouses and minor children by classifying them as "immediate
          relatives." Increase the per-country limits of family and
          employment-based visas. Allow orphans, widows and widowers to
          immigrate despite the death of a petitioner. Give the attorney general
          greater flexibility to address numerous hardships, including family
          separation, caused by a provision that bars, for up to 10 years,
          individuals who had been illegally in the United States. Give priority
          to children of World War II Filipino veterans by exempting them from
          the numerical caps on visas. Allow citizens to bring same-sex
          "permanent partners" to the U.S.


Source: Office of Rep. Mike Honda

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rep.Mike Honda: We re a nation that believes in family values.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 7, 2009 Friday

Immigrants tell their stories of fighting red tape

BYLINE: By Devin Banerjee Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 641 words


When Maria Esther's father fell sick in Mexico five years ago, she found herself
tangled in a twisted web of immigration policy. An undocumented immigrant,
Esther knew that returning to her homeland would end her future in America and
keep her from her U.S.-born daughter, Monserrat Cabrera, also suffering from a
serious illness at the time.

So Esther remained in San Jose while her father died south of the border.

"All I could do was watch my mom cry," said Monserrat, now 13. "Mom stayed with
me instead of telling her dad goodbye."

Emotions were palpable Thursday night at San Jose's St. Patrick Proto-Cathedral,
where hundreds of immigration reform advocates listened to testimonies from
young, undocumented locals and reassurances from Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose,
that "the time for comprehensive immigration reform is now."

Despite a push by former President George W. Bush, Congress in 2006 and 2007
failed to pass immigration reform.

Lofgren, who chairs the House of Representatives' subcommittee on immigration,
relayed President Barack Obama's commitment to change the nation's immigration
policy. But she made clear that such legislation will be difficult to pass.

"This is going to be a very tough fight,'' Lofgren said. "There's a reason it
hasn't been done yet, and that's because it's hard to do."

The fight for health-care reform seems to be delaying   if not overshadowing
the immigration debate, but only for the moment, immigration activists say.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., has said "many times" that he will
set aside time for immigration reform to be debated when Congress reconvenes in
the fall, said Paul Donnelly, a longtime pro-immigration activist in Washington,
D.C.

Donnelly said he believes passing immigration legislation "may actually be much
easier than anyone expected," and he lauded the work of Lofgren and Sen. Chuck
Schumer, D-N.Y., who is drafting legislation to present to Congress after Labor
Day.

Pro-immigration activists say the legislation must be comprehensive   addressing
issues across the spectrum of immigration policy such as status verification,
visa control and labor law   to garner enough support to pass the Senate and the
House.

And in the context of a recession, reform advocates are pushing the point that
immigrants are key drivers of the economy, especially in California.

"Look at the immigration that is the lifeblood of San Jose   it's an enormous
engine for Silicon Valley's economy," Donnelly said. "We want to be serious
about closing the back door to illegal immigration so that we can open the front
door to legal immigration."

Obama, who pledged during his campaign to tackle immigration this year, has been
criticized for not pushing the Democratic-controlled Congress hard enough. To
counter that criticism, the president tapped Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano early in the summer to be the administration's point person for the
debate.

The president, however, told Hispanic reporters at the White House on Friday
that next year's congressional election campaigns will further complicate the
debate. Obama also said he doesn't know if an immigration bill would have enough
votes to pass Congress.

But for reform activists, especially those who are undocumented, the debate on
immigration is more than politics   it's their livelihoods.

Phalguni Laishram, 18, testified Thursday night that he's been accepted to a
premedical program at the University of California-Riverside but is ineligible
for financial aid because his Indian family's application for asylum hasn't been
approved.

Nadia Webster, an 18-year-old who moved from Egypt to the South Bay when she was
3, is swirling in legal limbo because her recently deceased American stepfather
never legally adopted her.

"I consider myself an American," Webster said. "But I live like a second-class
citizen."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the Chair of the House Subcommittee on Immigration,
Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, speaks during a
community action meeting with supporters for comprehensive immigration reform on
Thursday August 6, 2009 inside St. Patrick's Proto-Cathedral in San Jose. (Dai
Sugano/Mercury News)
Supporters for comprehensive immigration reform held a community action meeting
with Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the Chair of the House Subcommittee on Immigration,
Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, on Thursday August
6, 2009 inside St. Patrick's Proto-Cathedral in San Jose. (Dai Sugano/Mercury
News)
Maria Andrade of San Jose (center) and other supporters for comprehensive
immigration reform react during a community action meeting with Rep. Zoe
Lofgren, the Chair of the House Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship,
Refugees, Border Security and International Law, on Thursday August 6, 2009
inside St. Patrick's Proto-Cathedral in San Jose. (Dai Sugano/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday

Raided leather factory to pay workers who sued

BYLINE: By DAILY News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 549 words


BOSTON   The former owners of a New Bedford leather goods factory raided last
year by immigration agents will pay $850,000 to workers   including illegal
immigrants   to settle a lawsuit claiming the company violated wage laws,
attorneys said Tuesday.

Michael Bianco Inc. will pay more than $600,000 to 764 former employees for
unpaid wages and overtime to settle the lawsuit filed in May 2007. The remaining
money will go for such things as legal fees and contributions to community
groups that work with immigrants.

"This agreement should send a message to other companies that they have to
follow labor laws regardless of workers' immigration status," said Audrey
Richardson, an attorney at Greater Boston Legal Services, which filed the
lawsuit.

Some of the illegal immigrants arrested in raid who will benefit from the
settlement have returned to Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras. Greater Boston
Legal Services is trying to locate former workers who would receive the money.

The company, which handled millions of dollars worth of federal contracts before
the raid, admitted no wrongdoing in the settlement. Company lawyer Diane
Saunders did not immediately respond to calls seeking comment.

Pickens' wife proposes way to save wild horses

DALLAS   The wife of Texas oil tycoon T. Boone Pickens said Tuesday she'll
create a refuge for wild horses, after the federal agency that manages the
animals said it may have to kill some to control the herds and protect the
Western range.

About 33,000 wild horses and burros roam the open range in 10 Western states,
half of those in Nevada. The U.S. Bureau of Land Management wants that
population to be about 27,000, to protect the herd, the range and other foraging
animals.

Those horses that are too old or are unadoptable by the public are sent to
long-term holding facilities. The BLM now has about the same number of the
animals in holding facilities as on the range.

The agency has said the costs of keeping animals in the holding facilities has
caused officials to consider euthanasia as a last resort.

Madeleine Pickens told The Associated Press that she has proposed purchasing
around 1 million acres to be a refuge for the horses now in holding facilities
and that the BLM has agreed to give her the horses once she has the land.

BLM spokesman Tom Gorey said the agency welcomes the offer.

8-year-old admits double shooting in police video

ST. JOHNS, Ariz.   An 8-year-old boy accused in the deaths of his father and
another man gave police conflicting accounts about the shootings, at one point
saying, "I wasn't shooting any guns" before admitting to firing at least two
shots at each of the men.

Sitting in an oversized chair, his feet dangling above the floor, the boy told
law enforcement officials in an hourlong police video released Tuesday that he
found the bodies of his father, Vincent Romero, 29, and Timothy Romans, 39, when
he returned home from school.

"I was thinking, 'What the heck is going on?'" the boy said in the video
released to The Associated Press and other media. "'Who did this? Why would
anyone do this?'"

The boy eventually admits to having pulled the trigger Nov. 5. As the video
wraps up, he buries his head in his jacket.

"I'm going to go to juvie," the boy says after an officer asks what he's
thinking.

Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 8, 2009 Sunday

Ruben Navarrette Jr: Extremists turned Hispanics against the GOP

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 762 words


There has been a misunderstanding. According to the chatter, many Republicans
seem to think they lost the Hispanic vote because their party took a stand
against illegal immigration.

That's pretty much what radio talk show host Rush Limbaugh said during a recent
interview with fellow talker Sean Hannity. I like listening to Limbaugh, but
what gibberish. That theory makes the GOP sound almost noble, as if it's paying
a price for its convictions. Yet it is Republican lawmakers who tend to weaken
employer sanctions   perhaps the most effective immigration enforcement measure
in existence.

It also has a ring of resignation, suggesting that the only way for the GOP to
make nice with America's largest minority is to reverse itself and embrace an
open border. Wrong again. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, most Latinos
support reasonable enforcement measures and don't begrudge the United States the
right to protect its borders.

Worse, the theory implies that if the GOP could relive the last several years,
it wouldn't do anything differently.

I hope that's not true. They say elephants never forget, but is it too much to
ask for them to learn a lesson once in a while? Otherwise, with the country on
the march to being one-fourth Hispanic in 30 years, Republicans may become
extinct.

Let me be clear. The reason for the Hispanic exodus from the GOP is not because
Republicans took a stand against illegal immigration. It's the way they did it
or at least many of them did it. As always, the devil was in the details.

Since the election, I've heard from hundreds of Hispanics who are still steamed
at the GOP. That is no surprise. Time heals wounds, but this is recent history.
(Ask the Mexicans about the Spanish. My people have been known to hold a grudge
for 500 years.) Hispanics tell me they're angry that the immigration debate
became so nasty, that employers escaped most of the criticism, that the tone
went from anti-illegal immigrant to anti-Hispanic, that Latino culture and
bilingualism were attacked, and that some Americans made the same argument that
was made in previous decades against the Germans, Chinese, Irish, Italians and
Jews   namely, that the real concern was about America admitting an inferior
grade of immigrant.

Hispanics also resent the racism, the reluctance of many Americans to empathize
with immigrants as similar to their ancestors, the assumption that anyone who
looks Hispanic must have only recently arrived in this country, and the fact
that opportunistic politicians proposed half-baked solutions for closing the
border and getting rid of illegal immigrants.

Just look at Republicans in Congress who have put their weight behind efforts to
declare English the national language, deny citizenship to U.S.-born children of
illegal immigrants, and empower local police to enforce federal immigration law.
All of these things are opposed by most Latinos.

Where the GOP went wrong was in letting the loudest and shrillest voices carry
the party banner   and to what end? To scare up a few votes from skittish
Americans convinced that taco trucks cruising neighborhoods or the option to
"press 2 for Spanish" meant the ruin of civilization. Instead of trying to
convince themselves that they didn't do anything wrong in driving away
Hispanics, Republicans should be thinking about how to make things right with
this huge bloc of voters. And no, that doesn't mean caving in and giving up on
core principles. All the right wing needs to do is to stay away from the
vitriol, the racism and the centuries-old tendency to define newcomers as
deficient, defective or dangerous.

That caricature troubles the National Hispanic Media Coalition, which recently
asked the Federal Communications Commission to investigate hate speech in the
media. The group defines hate speech as "dehumanizing metaphors," "divisive
language," "false statements," and "flawed argumentation." It is urging the FCC
to make good on what Barack Obama told the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in
September about his desire to "stop the hateful rhetoric filling our airwaves."

I can't go along with censorship or infringing on the First Amendment. The
answer to hate speech is more speech, not less. Still, I applaud the coalition
for raising the issue. The immigration debate is infected with too much hate and
fear. What it needs are injections of honesty, nuance and common sense. A little
civility wouldn't hurt either.

The Republican Party should clean up its act and do its part to help get us
there.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 7, 2009 Saturday

News In Brief

BYLINE: Mercury News wire services

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 447 words


Poor economy deters illegal border-crossers

Arrests of illegal immigrants on the U.S.-Mexico border have fallen to levels
unseen since the 1970s, as the ailing U.S. economy and enhanced enforcement
appear to be deterring people from embarking on treks north.

The trend is apparent from San Diego to Brownsville, Texas, but is felt most
dramatically on the border's busiest illegal immigrant corridors, which extend
through the Mexican state of Sonora to Arizona and California.

From October 2008, through February, the Border Patrol arrested 195,399 illegal
immigrants, a 24 percent decrease from the same period last year when there were
257,861 arrests. At this pace, the apprehension level will dip for this federal
fiscal year to its lowest level since 1975, when 596,796 immigrants were caught,
according to U.S. Border Patrol statistics.

Texas

Barbara Bush set to move out of ICU

Former first lady Barbara Bush was expected to leave the intensive care unit of
the Texas hospital where she had successful heart surgery.

The 83-year-old wife of former President George H.W. Bush had surgery Thursday
to replace her aortic valve at Methodist Hospital in Houston. She could remain
in the hospital for as long as another week.

Ohio

700 apply for school's janitorial position

Evidence of the slumping economy is stacking up at an Ohio school which has
nearly 700 applications for one open janitorial job.

Officials at Perry Local Schools near Canton in northeast Ohio say they've
extended the deadline until Monday to accommodate the overwhelming response to
the week-old posting.

The full-time position pays $15 to $16 an hour plus benefits. Superintendent
John Richard says many applicants are laid-off workers.

new jersey

Family awarded $11M in medical malpractice

The family of a New Jersey man who died hours after having his wisdom teeth
removed has won more than $11 million in damages.

A jury determined Friday that George Flugrad committed medical malpractice when
he failed to get clearance from Francis Keller's doctor to operate on the
21-year-old in 2005. Keller told Flugrad he had a hereditary condition that
caused his immune system to react to any trauma to his face or hands by
swelling. And that condition caused Keller's throat, face and hands to swell and
his airway to slowly close following the surgery.

In other news "...


     ·    Authorities say they arrested an escaped jail inmate trying to sneak
          back into a Georgia lockup with allegedly stolen cigarettes.



     ·    Also in Georgia, authorities say a possibly drunken man was saved by
          his pants when he decided to climb 35 feet up a power pole and
          slipped. The pants caught on the metal tower, stopping his fall.


From Mercury News wire services.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday

Mixed-status families increasing in U.S., study finds

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National; State

LENGTH: 928 words


Presenting a new family dynamic for the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants,
a new study shows a growing majority of their children are U.S. citizens, a fact
that could further complicate   and polarize   the nation's upcoming debate on
immigration reform.

While California is no longer the nation's preeminent destination for illegal
immigrants, they still account for about 1 in every 13 of the Golden State's
residents and about 1 in 10 workers, among the highest shares in the nation,
according to the report released Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center. But
increasingly, it is also a population of families that straddle the line between
citizen and illegal immigrant, a line that could cleave their futures.

"We usually see the young men, the day laborers, on the corners,'' said Jeffrey
S. Passel, a Pew demographer and co-author of the report. "And while that is a
significant share of the population, one of the things we found is that only
about one-quarter of the undocumented population, 2.9 million, are men who are
here by themselves without a spouse or children."

There are now about 4 million U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants, a 48
percent jump over the past five years, according to the Pew study. Nearly
three-quarters of all children of undocumented immigrants are U.S. citizens by
right of birth.

"While we may be able to fit people into boxes   undocumented, legal, legal
temporary resident, U.S. citizen   it's not so easy to fit families into that
same set of little boxes," Passel said. The mushrooming numbers of so-called
"mixed-status" families "complicates greatly, I think, the task of coming up
with policies to deal with this population."

About 8.8 million people are now living in mixed-status families, where one or
both parents are undocumented while their children are citizens, according to
the Pew study, which is based on an analysis of Census Bureau data. That is a
2.2 million-person increase since 2005.

Hopes threatened

That number hits home for people like Nancy, a 22-year-old senior at San Jose
State University, who plans to graduate with a degree in sociology this year.
Attending a rally calling for immigration reform Tuesday in downtown San Jose,
Nancy asked that her last name not be used because she is undocumented. Her
parents are undocumented, but her younger brother was born in California and is
a U.S. citizen. She dreams of going on to earn a doctorate in the United States,
but she worries whether her family will be able to stay here together.

"I love this country. I don't see myself living anywhere else," Nancy said. "One
of the big fears I have is finishing my studies and not being able to go out and
exercise my degree."

With President Barack Obama saying that he plans to propose comprehensive
immigration changes this year, there is intense debate about the fiscal impact
of bringing illegal immigrants into the mainstream by forcing them to pay income
and payroll taxes, and having full access to government and educational
benefits.

William Gheen, president of the anti-immigration group Americans for Legal
Immigration PAC, predicted the Pew report would intensify calls to change the
Constitution to remove the rights to citizenship by birth, because of the huge
growth in children born to illegal immigrants.

"Their movement into the U.S. is some type of colonization, as opposed to an
immigration phenomenon," Gheen said. "It needs to stop immediately. It's a
generosity that Americans can no longer afford to offer."

But Dan Siciliano, executive director of the Program in Law, Economics and
Business at Stanford Law School, said bringing unauthorized immigrants into the
mainstream would stimulate the economy. There could be a future economic cost,
he said, if mixed-status families feel too much uncertainty to invest fully in
the education of their U.S.-born children.

At risk, Siciliano said, could be "the son or daughter of the housekeeper or the
groundskeeper who goes on in Silicon Valley to be well educated and goes on to
found whatever it might be, the next Google or the next Facebook."

Nevada is the only state with a larger share of its work force who are
unauthorized immigrants than California's 9.9 percent, the Pew study found. The
data comes from a survey before March 2008 and does not reflect the full impact
of the recession.

While California has a much smaller share of the nation's total undocumented
population than it did in 1990, its 2.7 million illegal immigrants are the most
in the country, and are almost double the number in 1990. They made up 7.3
percent of California's total population in 2008, second only to Arizona.

Children of illegal immigrants make up 13.6 percent of California kindergarten
through grade 12 school population, ranking California behind only Nevada and
Arizona. A majority of those children are citizens, Passel said.

Building families

While growth of the undocumented population has leveled off, more women are
joining men and starting families in the U.S., perhaps because it has become
tougher to go back and forth across the border. "The growing numbers of women
has contributed to this formation of families, and that has led to the higher
numbers of children," Passel said.

Even though Nancy, the undocumented San Jose State student, doesn't know if
she'll gain legal status or citizenship, she hopes to become a political
organizer, a job that would "fulfill my need to be part of the community."

It's about exercising your citizenship, she said, "even though I don't have it."

Contact Mike Swift at 408-271-3648 or at mswift@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday

Conservative project against illegal immigration targets Mountain View
day-laborer center

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 639 words


Some residents of Mountain View are challenging the planned move of a
day-laborer center to their neighborhood and have enlisted the help of Judicial
Watch, a conservative national group that wages legal battles against similar
centers around the country where immigrants seek low-wage handyman work.

The Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit, which has a project called "Sanctuary
Busters," has sued cities around the country, claiming that day-laborer centers
violate federal immigration law at taxpayer expense by hiring illegal
immigrants.

"We're researching the facts in Mountain View," said Christopher J. Farrell,
director of research for the group. "Litigation is certainly one of the options
we're considering."

Wednesday night, Farrell led a meeting with several dozen residents, "a public
education effort," he said, about the work that Judicial Watch has done on
illegal immigration enforcement. It has filed lawsuits in Herndon, Va., and
Laguna Beach, arguing that taxpayer money was being used to pay for the
operation of day-worker centers in those cities.

Chris Newman, the legal director of a national group of day-laborer centers, the
National Day Laborer Organizing Network, dismissed the lawsuits as "baseless."

"They're meant to generate anti-immigrant sentiments," he said "These maneuvers
are designed to gin up controversy and intimidate people."

The threat of a lawsuit is the latest setback to the Dayworker Center of
Mountain View, a group founded in 1996 to help immigrants find hourly jobs like
gardening and temporary construction with employers, many of them homeowners.
During the height of the construction boom in the Bay Area, as many as a 100
workers a day found jobs from the center. It relies mostly on private donations
but has received funding from Los Altos and Los Altos Hills.

But controversy about the hiring of illegal immigrants, and resident complaints
of loitering, traffic and congestion, and lowered property values, has dogged
the center. It moved from a church location late in 2007 to a downtown building
owned by the Trinity United Methodist Church.

Last year, private donors raised $300,000 to buy a vacant concrete building on
113 Escuela Avenue, next to railroad tracks, just a quarter mile from the old
location. It is at the end of a long block of single-family homes and duplexes.
Plans were being drawn up to convert the building to the center's permanent
home. In February, the city granted a conditional-use permit.

But some neighborhood residents are appealing the permit, arguing that the
center is a commercial operation   an employment placement service   that
doesn't belong in a residential area.

"Mountain View's Zoning Administration has made a serious mistake," said Brad
Kellar, an engineering project manager who lives less than one block from the
proposed center. Kellar and four other residents addressed the Mountain View
City Council on Tuesday night to voice their objection.

Residents said they value the services the center provides to unemployed
workers, but oppose the city's decision to allow it to move in a residential
neighborhood. Kellar said it would be better suited in a commercial zone,
perhaps near a Home Depot, where traffic and parking would be more compatible.

"We're not racist. We're not haters," said Vince Raciti, another resident who is
opposed to the center. "It's a commercial business in a residential
neighborhood. It will increase traffic and it will lower our property values
without a doubt."

The appeal goes before the City Council on May 12.

"Here we go again," said Maria Marroquin, executive director of the Mountain
View day-worker center. "Unfortunately, I'm not surprised."

"I don't see this as a setback," she said. "Absolutely not. It's just one more
challenge."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 19, 2009 Sunday

Ruben Navarrette Jr.: New 'border czar' has much to prove

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 526 words


SAN DIEGO   Alan Bersin is back in the headlines and back to pounding a familiar
beat: the border. Last week, the Obama administration named the one-time rising
star in the Clinton administration Justice Department as the nation's "border
czar."

Bersin had a similar gig in 1995, when   while serving as U.S. attorney for San
Diego   he was asked by Attorney General Janet Reno to oversee the Southwest
border. A former classmate of Bill Clinton's at Oxford and Yale Law School,
Bersin was so connected that he was often mentioned as being on the short list
to replace Reno if she had stepped down. His duties were to try to lead the
crackdown on illegal immigration by overseeing border enforcement from San Diego
to Brownsville, Texas, and although Bersin bristled at the characterization, the
position became known as the border czar.

Now Bersin is starring in the sequel. A Homeland Security official described
Bersin's new job as an "assistant secretary" position. This time around, Bersin
will be higher up the chain of command with direct access to Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano. He'll be responsible for tackling illegal
immigration but also overseeing the administration's response to drug
trafficking and cartel violence, working closely with both U.S. and Mexican law
enforcement.

This might be too much for any one person to juggle. Now is the right time for a
border czar, but the immigration issue is a morass all its own that threatens to
take up so much time and attention that the even more-pressing problem of
curtailing drug violence could be shortchanged.

Mexican officials like the fact that the United States has  begun to take
Mexico's drug war seriously. But, it will not set well with either Mexican
politicians or the Mexican media that the Obama administration named a border
czar before naming a U.S. ambassador to Mexico. While an ambassador builds
bridges, a border czar builds fences.

Despite the fact that no formal announcement has been made, the ambassador job
has reportedly been offered to Cuban-born Carlos Pascual, vice president of the
Brookings Institution, a Washington-based think tank.

Many people in San Diego who are familiar with Bersin and his stint as U.S.
attorney in the 1990s also have mixed feelings about him. Because he ramped up
the office's prosecutions of border-crossers, some Republicans consider Bersin
one of their favorite Democrats. Meanwhile, in part because he has always been
considered politically shrewd, some on the left consider him a Democrat in name
only.

I've talked to a number of immigration lawyers and criminal defense attorneys
who blame Bersin for needlessly clogging the courts with prosecutions of
low-level immigrant violators.

So just who is Alan Bersin? Supporters call him a pragmatist who is brave enough
to challenge convention. But his critics call him an opportunist who proved that
Democrats could be just as adept as Republicans at exploiting illegal
immigration for their own advancement.

Americans need to find out which one of those characterizations more aptly
describes our new border czar.


Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 27, 2009 Monday

April 28 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 740 words


Illegal immigrants may bring flu, more

Now that travel warnings are being issued and airline passengers are being
checked for fevers, will we put public health personnel along the border to
confirm that the illegal immigrants are flu free before they enter the country?

These individuals not only have the potential to bring the swine flu, but also
tuberculosis and other diseases. They also bring unborn babies to have in our
hospitals at taxpayer expense. They bring their children to be educated for free
at our schools and colleges. They also bring drugs and gang members to wreak
havoc on our streets.

Don't we have enough homegrown trouble in this country without taking on
Mexico's as well?

Sue Robertson

San Jose

Teaching Web safety is not teachers' job

I applaud that Michael Kaiser (Opinion, April 27) is trying to protect children
on the Internet and that his organization, National Cyber Security Alliance, is
working to remedy this. However, I am appalled that he can suggest that it's the
responsibility of schools to teach students this topic on top of the budget
problems that are cutting classroom time from the core curriculum and also while
teachers and staff are being let go. Sorry, but there have got to be other
alternatives. Perhaps parents should take up this task as I'm sure their kids
are using the Internet before they start preschool.

Tia Rath

San Jose

Plastic bags are hardly 'single use'

Why does the Mercury News encourage the label "single use bags" when referring
to plastic bags from grocery stores? I think this term is deceptive and not
accurate. I reuse most all of the plastic bags I get from the store (inevitably
I simply throw away some), but I try to use them for my trash or if they have
holes I use them for my recyclables. Does anyone honestly believe most people
will suddenly stop using plastic bags as liners for their trash cans? I consider
myself to be considerate of the environment but I think initiatives like banning
plastic bags are shortsighted and miss the mark.

Richard Martinez

Santa Clara

Want bigger family? Try adopting kids

In these days of global warming, is it responsible for people to have large
families (Page 1A, April 24) without regard to what impact that has on the
environment? The question is not whether one can afford to have three, four or
more kids financially, but whether planet Earth can sustain an ever more rapidly
growing human population. Consider the carbon footprint. If affluent people want
to have large families, then the noble and more challenging thing would be to
adopt, and set an example for others.

Vinay Badami

San Jose

Don't enrich firms at others' expense

Thank you for publishing the scandalous Silicon Valley CEO remarks on the May 19
special election (Opinion, April 26). First, they advocate "bitter medicine" for
all Californians in the form of the six draconian propositions. Then, they
applaud the Legislature for giving them a major tax break (the "single sales
apportionment") in the middle of the worst budget deficit in our history. Then
they ask for even MORE special interest tax breaks.

I'm sorry, the strategy of always enriching corporations at the expense of the
people was rejected last November. It needs to be rejected again. Vote no on the
propositions on May 19. What we really need is a special election to abolish
California's dysfunctional two-thirds rule for enacting a budget.

Sandy Perry

San Jose

Deceptive Prop. 1D robs county's kids

I have read many propositions in my political career, but I can't remember
seeing a proposition like 1D. I am amazed at how deceptive and dishonest the
language is: "Temporarily provides greater flexibility in funding to preserve
health and human services for children "..."

Although Proposition 1D states that the transferred funds must be used for
childhood services, it allows the Legislature to take the same amount out of the
general fund and use it for other purposes.

The likely result will be to diminish overall state funding for children.

FIRST 5 has been building programs for the most vulnerable children in our
county for the last eight years. This proposition takes more than half the funds
that come for programs in our county and directs these funds straight to the
state fund.

For less than two-thirds of 1 percent of the state deficit, is it worth losing
half our county programs? Please join me in voting "no" on 1D.

Susanne Wilson

Former Santa Clara County Supervisor District 1, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 1, 2009 Friday

San Jose immigration march has spirited but small turnout amid flu fears and
light rain

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 708 words


Defying worries about a growing swine flu pandemic and braving spring rain,
hundreds of immigrants and their supporters marched to downtown San Jose on
Friday evening, hoping to drum up support for legislation that would create a
path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

"Because people are here, and they have a voice, this is a success," said Martha
Campos, a volunteer with Comite Cesar Chavez, a San Jose immigrant advocacy
group. "It doesn't matter that it's raining and people are thinking about a
public-health issue. We are here and we're speaking out." Police estimated the
three-block long phalanx to be only 400 marchers, while a loose count indicated
about 1,000 participants.

The three-mile march from San Jose's East Side to downtown City Hall was part of
a national push to reform the country's immigration system, one that includes
legalization of an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States.
May Day marches were held in cities across the country.

Dennis Gonzalez, 26, a third-year graduate student at San Jose State University,
was at City Hall to welcome the marchers, holding up a sign reading "Reform not
Raids." "My parents were undocumented immigrants from El Salvador," he said.

"If they had not been given the opportunity to become legal, I would not be
here. I came to support." Gonzalez and his friend Laura Cabral, 24, also an SJSU
graduate student, dismissed worries about the swine flu and public gatherings.

Organizers had consulted county public health officials, who said that there was
no ban on public gatherings.

In the background, the marchers chanted, "Obama, escucha. Estamos en la lucha,"
or "Obama, listen. We're in a struggle." The administration of President Barack
Obama has signaled interest in advancing legalization. This week, the U.S.
Senate Subcommittee on Immigration began hearings on reform, and the federal
government also announced plans to focus enforcement on employers and scale back
on raids where illegal immigrants have been swept up and deported.

Groups like the Federation for American Immigration Reform oppose the call for
legalization, denouncing it as a "free pass, an amnesty" for people who have
violated immigration and criminal laws. It failed in the previous administration
under a Republican president, said FAIR spokesman Ira Mehlman, not because of
lack of political will on Capitol Hill, but because the American public was
against it.

"What has changed is our economic situation: Millions of people are unemployed
and states are teetering on a budget abyss," he said. "Talk of amnesty simply
ignores all these other realities. We simply don't have the resources."

Arriving at San Jose City Hall on Santa Clara Street between Fifth and Sixth
streets, waving U.S. and Mexican flags, marchers chanted the urgency of reform,
legalization, and the importance of reuniting immigrant families split by
deportations.

"By marching we hope to send a strong message to Congress and to our president,"
said Adel Olvera, director of immigration and citizenship program for the Center
for Employment and Training in San Jose. "This is still very important to us."

While the march was spirited, it was a disappointing turnout for organizers who
had hoped to draw as many as 10,000 participants. In 2006, the same event drew
in excess of 125,000. But worries about the growing spread of swine flu, its
links to Mexico and the late afternoon rain clearly affected the turnout.

Organizers and immigration advocates also voiced concerns about the
"scapegoating" of Mexican immigrants as the source of the swine flu. American
and international medical experts have not determined the exact source of the
pandemic but some opponents of legalization, calling it "the Mexican flu," have
suggested it was brought into the United States by illegal immigrants who
escaped border inspection.

"We know that people who like to blame Mexicans are going to blame them for this
outbreak, too," said Ruth Robertson, a member of the Raging Grannies, one of the
many Bay Area groups that joined the march in support of legalization. "This
would certainly be in line with past cases of motivation based on racism and
bigotry."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marchers make their way down Santa Clara St. during the May Day
immigration march in San Jose Friday May 1, 2009. Despite worries about the
spread of swine flu, the immigration march went ahead as scheduled. The march is
part of a nationwide push - immigration marches will be held in cities across
the country - to legalize millions of illegal immigrants, an effort that the
Obama administration has signalled it will support. (Patrick Tehan/Mercury News)

Maria Valencia and other marchers pause for a moment of silence in front of San
Jose City Hall after the May Day immigration march in San Jose Friday May 1,
2009. Despite worries about the spread of swine flu, the immigration march went
ahead as scheduled. The march is part of a nationwide push - immigration marches
will be held in cities across the country - to legalize millions of illegal
immigrants, an effort that the Obama administration has signalled it will
support. (Patrick Tehan/Mercury News)
Marchers gather in front of San Jose City Hall after the May Day immigration
march in San Jose Friday May 1, 2009. Despite worries about the spread of swine
flu, the immigration march went ahead as scheduled. The march is part of a
nationwide push - immigration marches will be held in cities across the country
- to legalize millions of illegal immigrants, an effort that the Obama
administration has signalled it will support. (Patrick Tehan/Mercury News)
Marchers make their way down Santa Clara St. during the May Day immigration
march in San Jose Friday May 1, 2009. Despite worries about the spread of swine
flu, the immigration march went ahead as scheduled. The march is part of a
nationwide push - immigration marches will be held in cities across the country
- to legalize millions of illegal immigrants, an effort that the Obama
administration has signalled it will support. (Patrick Tehan/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Schwarzenegger challenges the anti-immigrant crowd

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 598 words


The consensus in many corners of the Golden State is that Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger has been a failure in office.

I don't know about that. For one thing, that characterization lets the
Democratic-controlled Legislature off the hook. For another, when the governor
finds a cause he believes in, he still shows plenty of fight. Schwarzenegger got
in his share of licks recently when he had the chance to defend illegal
immigrants by dispelling popular myths about how they're responsible for the
state's $24.3 billion budget deficit.

During a meeting last week with the editorial board of the Sacramento Bee, the
governor took questions sent by readers. Dozens insisted that one simple way out
of the state's financial woes would be to eliminate all services for illegal
immigrants.

To the defense

The governor wasn't buying it. He challenged head-on the assumption that it was
illegal immigrants who pushed the state into an ocean of red ink, pointing out
that the cost to provide services to that population   estimated at about $5
billion per year   was a "small percentage" of the spending. This was something
that needed to be addressed, he said, but it wasn't entirely responsible for the
state's financial woes.

Schwarzenegger supports comprehensive immigration reform, blending together
stricter border enforcement, guest workers and a path to earned legalization for
the undocumented. And, in the past, he has been vocal in urging Americans to
direct their anger and frustration at the broken immigration system and not at
the immigrants themselves.

"I think it's an easy scapegoat for people to point the finger and say, 'Our
budget is out of whack because of illegal immigrants,' " Schwarzenegger told the
Bee. "It's not."

But Schwarzenegger didn't stop at defending illegal immigrants. He went further
and praised the contribution they make to the California economy and noted that
"everything we eat today is picked and created by undocumented immigrants, to a
large extent "... and every time we go to a restaurant and every time we go and
move into a building, a lot of those buildings are built by undocumented
immigrants' hands."

In fact, Schwarzenegger said that he is "happy that they can get the services"
because if he were in another country and needed emergency medical care, he
wouldn't want authorities there to refuse treatment until they verified his
legal status.

Remarkable

It was really remarkable to hear Schwarzenegger lay it out they way he did. Less
remarkable is that it made so many Californians uncomfortable. They live in a
beautiful and vibrant state, but many of them also live in a state of denial.
They don't think about all the restaurants, hotels, ranches, farms, construction
firms, landscape companies and homebuilders that depend on illegal immigrant
labor because many Californians   even in an economic recession   won't take the
sorts of menial jobs their grandparents did.

And, they don't think about the fact that, for all illegal immigrants consume in
services, they also pay taxes   sales, property, even sometimes income taxes
with the aid of a U.S. government-issued individual taxpayer identification
number.

Meanwhile, with Democrats in Washington mostly paralyzed with fear at the
prospect of addressing immigration reform, it was inspiring to see a Republican
governor fearlessly grab the issue by the throat. It's a good lesson for those
in our nation's capital who talk a good game, dribble all over the court, but
are afraid to take their shot.

Mr. President, watch and learn.


Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday

Recession blocks illegal immigration

BYLINE: By Mike Swift and Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 865 words


Their job prospects battered by a deep recession, fewer immigrants are being
caught trying to cross illegally into the United States than at any time since
the 1970s, say two reports based on new federal data. But it remains unclear
whether many illegal immigrants already here are heading back home.

Apprehensions of illegal immigrants at the U.S.-Mexico border are down 34
percent over the past two years, according to new U.S. Department of Homeland
Security data   on pace to be even lower in fiscal 2009. With record removals of
unauthorized migrants in the U.S. and increased spending on border security, the
economic and enforcement barriers to crossing into California and other
Southwestern states have rarely been higher, federal officials and immigration
experts say.

"It's far riskier to cross the border, it costs more, and the rewards are simply
not there   the jobs that have driven people here for 40 years," said Al
Camarillo, a Stanford historian who follows Latin American immigration.

A new Pew Research Center report estimates that for the 12 months ending in
February 2009, the net migration between Mexico and the U.S.   the number of
people coming to the U.S. minus those returning to Mexico   was about 203,000,
less than half of the 547,000 two years earlier.

"There is no real way to separate what part is enforcement and what part is
economic," said Jeffrey Passel, co-author of the Pew report. "They may work
together."

And now, those who cross the border increasingly make states other than
California their destination.

Even after the economy picks up, Camarillo said, "I don't think you're going to
see a place like California be the magnet again, as it was from the 1970s to the
late '90s."

While some have theorized that the recession has prompted more Mexicans to go
home, Pew found no such evidence from an analysis of data from the Mexican
government and the U.S. Census.

Others disagree. Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group
that favors increased immigration curbs, says his census data analysis suggests
more young, undocumented Mexicans are returning home this year because of the
recession.

"I think it's half right," Camarota said of the Pew report. "The legal
population is not going home, but it appears the illegal population is going
home in larger numbers. Fewer people are coming."

Numbers drop

Camarota says the population of illegal immigrants in the U.S. may have dropped
below 11 million, from a high of about 12 million in 2006.

Local organizations that work with immigrants from Mexico and the rest of Latin
America agree that few are returning home. But they paint a mixed picture when
asked whether immigration from those countries has slowed in recent years.

"We here on the ground have not seen the slightest decrease in clients or
requests for information on our hot line,'' said Basil Robledo, director of
programs at SIREN, the Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network in San
Jose.

But Karla Reyes, a 22-year-old San Jose State University student who works with
many undocumented immigrants, has detected a decrease in the number of
immigrants coming from Latin America.

"Definitely it's getting harder for immigrants to be here because so many people
are losing their jobs," Reyes said. But, she added, "there's still a flow of
immigrants because their home countries are worse off economically than here.''

Work competition

The result, she said, has been that immigrants are becoming more desperate as
they compete for jobs and affordable housing   often crowding into shabby rental
housing   as they line up at food banks instead of job lines.

Mark Silverman, an attorney at San Francisco's Immigrant Legal Resource Center
who for many years had held community meetings in San Jose, said he always used
to get questions about "somebody's brother or cousin caught at the border" for
illegally attempting to cross it. Now, he said, he rarely hears such questions
an indication of how fewer immigrants are being nabbed by the Border Patrol
because fewer are coming.

Increased spending for border security has greatly increased the fee Mexican
nationals are paying to smugglers to cross the border, said a spokesman for U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, an arm of homeland security. Meanwhile, tougher
border scrutiny is forcing people trafficking drugs and illegal immigrants to
become more creative   with people hollowing out surfboards to hide marijuana
and even floating narcotics through the sewer system of Nogales, Ariz.

Through June 30 of this fiscal year, authorities apprehended about 429,000
people attempting to cross the border   dramatically off the 1.7 million people
apprehended in 2000, the peak year. Nine months into the 2009 fiscal year, the
pace is comparable to the 597,000 people apprehended in 1975.

"Does the economy have anything to do with it? Of course it does," said Lloyd
Easterling, the Customs and Border Protection spokesman. "But we would be
foolish to say that enforcement, especially since we've ramped up in several
areas in the last few years, wasn't a part of it. It's a big part of it."

Contact Mike Swift at 408-271-3648. Follow him on Twitter at
twitter.com/swiftstories .

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Their job prospects battered by a deep recession, fewer immigrants are
being caught trying to cross illegally into the U.S. than at any time since the
1970s, say two reports based on new federal data.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday

Review: 'Snakehead' explores a notorious illegal immigration operation in New
York

BYLINE: By Gregory Black for the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Entertainment; Books; Gossip; Reviews

LENGTH: 1095 words


On June 6, 1993, a tramp steamer known as the Golden Venture ran aground in the
dead of night in heavy seas 100 yards off the Rockaway Peninsula, between
Brooklyn and Queens. More than 300 undocumented Chinese nationals scrambled over
the side and into the surf, hoping to evade capture. But a small army of INS,
police and customs officers was waiting for them.

With this scene, author Patrick Radden Keefe opens "The Snakehead: An Epic Tale
of the Chinatown Underworld and the American Dream," his captivating book about
human smuggling, modern-day slavery and the lengths to which people will go to
pursue their dreams.

"Snakehead" is the term the Chinese use for an "immigration broker," a
clandestine entrepreneur who arranges for those unable to enter a country
legally to do so anyway. "Snake" refers to the often circuitous route employed
by the broker to get clients to their desired destination without detection.

The Golden Venture had sailed from Singapore through the Strait of Malacca and
across the Indian Ocean to Africa. Calling at various ports along that
continent's eastern coast, it then rounded the Horn of Africa, plowed across the
Atlantic and skirted the Cape of Good Hope. After more calls at harbors in
Brazil and Central America, it sailed for its passengers' secret debarkation
point, New York City.

Sailing "the wrong way around the planet," the Golden Venture logged more than
17,000 miles to carry her human cargo to North America. At 120 days, the voyage
took twice as long as that endured by passengers of the Mayflower on its voyage
to the New World.

The heyday of snakehead deliveries to the United States occurred in the 1980s
and '90s. With fees then averaging about $35,000 to smuggle an undocumented
Chinese national into North America, Europe or South America, it was an
extremely lucrative business.

Surprisingly, the most famous and respected snakehead of that era was Cheng Chui
Ping, a short, pudgy, middle-aged woman who ran her thriving business out of a
humble variety store on East Broadway in New York's Chinatown. In the murky
underworld of undocumented border crossings, she was known simply as Sister
Ping. In Chinatowns from London's to Mombasa's to San Francisco's, her business
was recognized as "the Cadillac of global human smuggling" for more than two
decades.

Cheng Chui Ping learned the snakehead trade from her father. And hearing
wondrous tales about America since childhood, she set her own sights on moving
to the land the Chinese have called Jinshan or Golden Mountain ever since waves
of them began arriving on these shores just after the California Gold Rush of
1849.

In one of his book's many ironies, Keefe points out that Sister Ping herself
entered the United States legally, after obtaining a visa at the U.S. consulate
in Hong Kong in 1981 as a "skilled or unskilled worker." She got it on the
pretext that she would seek employment as a domestic, telling consulate
officials she hoped to earn and save enough money to bring her small family to
America later. Authorities seem to have overlooked that she was already an
established businesswoman of some means in Hong Kong.

In New York, Sister Ping quickly invested in a number of small business ventures
and became a pillar of the Chinatown community. From her headquarters, the Tak
Shun Variety Store, she operated a vast web of ventures   restaurants, clothing
manufacturing, poultry wholesaling and real estate   that were controlled by her
and members of her extended family.

Her two most lucrative professions, however   as a snakehead and an underground
banker used by illegal immigrants to transfer funds to their families in China
were off the books and brought in millions.

From its inception, her snakehead business was enormously successful. The
undocumented could use Sister Ping's feich'teu ("flying money") services for
transfers, without creating the kind of paper trail left by Bank of China
customers, to even the most remote Chinese villages, paying a 3 percent
commission.

From her Chinatown shop, Sister Ping would also advise new arrivals on housing,
employment and other concerns of new transplants in a strange land. Over time,
she accumulated hundreds of quanxi, obligatory relationships built on
interlocking favors and dependencies that bound many in the community to her and
her family. She employed the services of a tong, or Chinese gang, to make
examples of those who crossed her, but her business acumen and understanding of
human nature were so keen that she rarely needed strong-arm tactics.

Her downfall came after the business grew too large to be managed by her
extended family members alone. After she was forced to outsource some shipping
and money laundering operations, her vast enterprise was finally undone by the
incompetence and greed of associates.

When Sister Ping learned on the television news that the Golden Venture had run
aground and its passengers had been captured, she realized it was just a matter
of time. During the investigation following the shipwreck, the media spotlight
glaringly exposed the magnitude of the snakehead trade. The then-director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service told the press: "The smuggling of ethnic
Chinese represented the most sophisticated level of criminal activity "... (the
agency) was up against." With scrutiny of the problem reaching even the White
House, the writing was on the wall.

Even so, it would take 10 years and thousands of man-hours by the INS, Interpol
and the New York Police Department's Oriental Gang Unit known as the "Jade
Squad" to shutter Sister Ping's business. When she was eventually jailed in
2006, it was estimated she had made at least $40 million from her smuggling; the
actual figure probably was higher.

Keefe's book is a page-turner that reads like a crime novel. Peopled with dozens
of colorful characters, it offers an authoritative history of the diaspora of
the Chinese and their experience in the United States.

Crossing continents, the book paints a strangely twisted picture of the
pilgrims' progress, prompting one to ponder who should be deemed "desirable" and
allowed to build a new life in this country. Not far from where the Golden
Venture ran aground, the Statue of Liberty proclaims: "Send these, the homeless,
tempest-tossed to me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door!"

Keefe's account reminds us how much hope the American dream inspires and what a
steep price some have paid to try to live it.

The Snakehead:

An Epic Tale of
the Chinatown Underworld
and the
American Dream

By Patrick
Radden Keefe
Doubleday,
432 pp., $27.50

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday

Review: 'Snakehead' explores a notorious illegal immigration operation in New
York

BYLINE: By Gregory Black for the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Entertainment; Books; Gossip; Reviews

LENGTH: 1085 words


On June 6, 1993, a tramp steamer known as the Golden Venture ran aground in the
dead of night in heavy seas 100 yards off the Rockaway Peninsula, between
Brooklyn and Queens. More than 300 undocumented Chinese nationals scrambled over
the side and into the surf, hoping to evade capture. But a small army of INS,
police and customs officers was waiting for them.

With this scene, author Patrick Radden Keefe opens "The Snakehead: An Epic Tale
of the Chinatown Underworld and the American Dream," his captivating book about
human smuggling, modern-day slavery and the lengths to which people will go to
pursue their dreams.

"Snakehead" is the term the Chinese use for an "immigration broker," a
clandestine entrepreneur who arranges for those unable to enter a country
legally to do so anyway. "Snake" refers to the often circuitous route employed
by the broker to get clients to their desired destination without detection.

The Golden Venture had sailed from Singapore through the Strait of Malacca and
across the Indian Ocean to Africa. Calling at various ports along that
continent's eastern coast, it then rounded the Horn of Africa, plowed across the
Atlantic and skirted the Cape of Good Hope. After more calls at harbors in
Brazil and Central America, it sailed for its passengers' secret debarkation
point, New York City.

Sailing "the wrong way around the planet," the Golden Venture logged more than
17,000 miles to carry her human cargo to North America. At 120 days, the voyage
took twice as long as that endured by passengers of the Mayflower on its voyage
to the New World.

They heyday of Snakehead deliveries to the United States occurred in the 1980s
and '90s. With fees then averaging about $35,000 to smuggle an undocumented
Chinese national into North America, Europe or South America, it was an
extremely lucrative business.

Surprisingly, the most famous and respected snakehead of that era was Cheng Chui
Ping, a short, pudgy, middle-aged woman who ran her thriving business out of a
humble variety store on East Broadway in New York's Chinatown. In the murky
underworld of undocumented border crossings, she was known simply as Sister
Ping. In Chinatowns from London's to Mombassa's to San Francisco's, her business
was recognized as "the Cadillac of global human smuggling" for more than two
decades.

Cheng Chui Ping learned the snakehead trade from her father. And hearing
wondrous tales about America since childhood, she set her own sights on moving
to the land the Chinese have called Jinshan or Golden Mountain ever since waves
of them began arriving on these shores just after the California Gold Rush of
1849.

In one of his book's many ironies, Keefe points out that Sister Ping herself
entered the United States legally, after obtaining a visa at the U.S. consulate
in Hong Kong in 1981 as a "skilled or unskilled worker." She got it on the
pretext that she would seek employment as a domestic, telling consulate
officials she hoped to earn and save enough money to bring her small family to
America later. Authorities seem to have overlooked that she was already an
established businesswoman of some means in Hong Kong.

In New York, Sister Ping quickly invested in a number of small business ventures
and became a pillar of the Chinatown community. From her headquarters, the Tak
Shun Variety Store, she operated a vast web of ventures   restaurants, clothing
manufacturing, poultry wholesaling and real estate   that were controlled by her
and members of her extended family.

Her two most lucrative professions, however   as a snakehead and an underground
banker used by illegals to transfer funds to their families in China   were off
the books and brought in millions.

From its inception, her snakehead business was enormously successful. The
undocumented could use Sister Ping's feich'teu ("flying money") services for
transfers, without creating the kind of paper trail left by Bank of China
customers, to even the most remote Chinese villages, paying a 3 percent
commission.

From her Chinatown shop, Sister Ping would also advise new arrivals on housing,
employment and other concerns of new transplants in a strange land. Over time,
she accumulated hundreds of "Quanxi," obligatory relationships built on
interlocking favors and dependencies that bound many in the community to her and
her family. She employed the services of a Tong, or Chinese gang, to make
examples of those who crossed her, but her business acumen and understanding of
human nature were so keen that she rarely needed strong-arm tactics.

Her downfall came after the business grew too large to be managed by her
extended family members alone. After she was forced to outsource some shipping
and money laundering operations, her vast enterprise was finally undone by the
incompetence and greed of associates.

When Sister Ping learned on the television news that the Golden Venture had run
aground and its passengers had been captured, she realized it was just a matter
of time. During the investigation following the shipwreck, the media spotlight
glaringly exposed the magnitude of the snakehead trade. The then-director of the
INS told the press: "The smuggling of ethnic Chinese represented the most
sophisticated level of criminal activity (the agency) was up against." With
scrutiny of the problem reaching even the White House, the writing was on the
wall.

Even so, it would take 10 years and thousands of man hours by the INS, Interpol
and the NYPD's Oriental Gang Unit known as the Jade Squad to shutter Sister
Ping's business. When she was eventually jailed in 2006, it was estimated she'd
made at least $40 million from her smuggling; the actual figure probably was
higher.

Keefe's book is a page-turner that reads like a crime novel. Peopled with dozens
of colorful characters, it offers an authoritative history of the diaspora of
the Chinese and their experience in the United States.

Crossing continents, the book paints a strangely twisted picture of the
pilgrims' progress, prompting one to ponder who should be deemed "desirable" and
allowed to build a new life in this country. Not far from where the Golden
Venture ran aground, the Statue of Liberty proclaims: "Send these, the homeless,
tempest-tossed to me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door!"

Keefe's account reminds us how much hope the American dream inspires and what a
steep price some have paid to try to live it.

"The Snakehead:

An Epic Tale of
the Chinatown Underworld
and the American Dream"

By Patrick Radden Keefe
Random House, 432 pp., $27.50

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 10, 2009 Thursday

Controversy over Obama speech underscores cost of health care for illegal
immigrants

BYLINE: By Karen de Sá kdesa@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Health; News; National

LENGTH: 835 words


The latest dust-up over President Barack Obama's health-care-for-all mission
the congressman who angrily called Obama a liar during a nationally televised
speech   underscored conservatives' fears that illegal immigrants would benefit
from efforts to expand coverage.

But if immigrant-rich California is any indication, there are already millions
of undocumented immigrants on publicly funded health plans   and it comes at a
cost to taxpayers.

While the vast majority of federal benefit programs bar those who cannot present
proof of citizenship, California has been more generous than other states.
Taxpayers here contribute more than $1 billion each year to cover the health
care costs of those who are in the country illegally.

The California Department of Health Care Services estimates 768,400 undocumented
immigrants will receive coverage this fiscal year through Medi-Cal, the health
program funded by state and federal tax money. The cost: $1.2 billion. While
people without documentation aren't eligible for the full menu of comprehensive
health care other low-income residents receive, those who show up at emergency
rooms are covered.

Another state and federally funded program, Access for Infants and Mothers,
serves pregnant women whose income is slightly higher than Medi-Cal eligibility
allows. That program enrolls 12,000 women statewide at a cost of $123 million,
according to the Legislative Analyst's Office. Some participants are presumed to
be undocumented, said Lisa Murawski of the analyst's office, although no
questions are asked.

According to the most recent estimates by the Public Policy Institute of
California, there were 2.8 million illegal immigrants here in 2006   one-quarter
of the nation's total.

Whether the public's investment in health care for illegal immigrants is worth
the expense remains the subject of debate.

Immigrant-rights advocates and public health officials argue that providing
basic medical care to all prevents more costly emergency services and stems the
spread of infectious disease. Critics assert that providing health benefits to
illegal immigrants entices them into the country and squanders precious public
dollars.

The president made clear in his address to Congress this week that he has no
intention of making access for the undocumented any easier.

"There are those who claim our reform efforts would insure illegal immigrants
this too is false," Obama said, to which Rep. Joe Wilson, a South Carolina
Republican, shouted: "You lie!"

Republican critics says the proposed legislation does not do enough to ensure
government dollars won't flow to those who are here illegally. Wilson said
Thursday that GOP efforts to toughen the bill by requiring verification of
citizenship were defeated by Democrats in Congress.

Indeed in California, some programs ask, and some don't. Emergency rooms here
and across the country guarantee care because federal law bars hospitals from
refusing service, regardless of immigration status or ability to pay.

The number of undocumented immigrants seeking care at emergency rooms is often
difficult to tease out, because they aren't tallied separately from other
uninsured patients.

But the most recent Santa Clara County estimate found that about 250 to 300
illegal immigrants a year are admitted to Valley Medical Center after arriving
at the emergency department, approximately 3 percent of the hospital's 10,000
annual emergency room admissions.

"The undocumented cost is not as high as people might imagine," said spokeswoman
Joy Alexiou. "The largest number of our folks who come through the emergency
department are uninsured either because they lost their jobs or they lost their
health insurance."

Several recent studies confirm this, revealing California's uninsured population
to be overwhelmingly citizens and other legal residents.

The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation reports that "noncitizens are
significantly less likely to use the emergency room than citizens"   some 13
percent of those surveyed, compared to 20 percent of citizens. Some stay away
for fear of coming into contact with officials who might report them as
undocumented.

In Santa Clara County, the Healthy Kids program, which insures low-income
children whose parents earn too much to qualify for Medi-Cal, asks no questions
about citizenship status. A total of 9,600 kids are now enrolled in the program,
which has been replicated in dozens of other California counties.

Yet in a report released last week by the UCLA Center for Health Policy
Research, surveyors found that two-thirds of the state's uninsured are U.S.
citizens; of 51,000 households surveyed, another 15 percent were legal
residents, and 20 percent were noncitizens without green cards.

"This is a population that is obviously not draining down public services, or
even private services," said Shana Alex Lavarreda, director of the nonpartisan
center's insurance studies. "They're just uninsured."

The New York Times contributed to this report. Contact Karen de Sá at
408-920-5781.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

Opinion:

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 717 words


We're only about a month into the Obama presidency and already immigrant-rights
activists are getting restless. Supporters of comprehensive immigration reform
are more determined than ever to overcome the nativist fears that helped derail
their efforts in 2007 and fix a broken system.

It won't be easy. With the economic crisis, some say this is a bad time to give
the issue another hearing. The argument against immigration reform goes: Why
would Americans want to legalize and throw into the work force millions of
people to do jobs that should go to U.S. workers? The reformers have
counterarguments: Most illegal immigrants are already in the work force.
Adjusting their status would make it harder for employers to play off illegal
immigrants against U.S. workers, and force companies to increase wages for
everyone.

'Very committed'

And where does the Obama administration come down on all this? It's hard to
tell. People are confused.

The president has promised to make comprehensive immigration reform a top
priority. Just last month, during an appearance on the Spanish-language radio
show hosted by Los Angeles-based Eddie "El Piolin" Sotelo, Obama pledged to
"begin the process of dealing with the immigration system that's broken" by
making it easier for legal immigrants to become citizens. As for comprehensive
reform, Obama assured Sotelo that this, too, was on his agenda.

"It's going to take some time to move that forward," Obama said. "But I'm very
committed to making it happen. And we're going to be convening leadership on
this issue so that we can start getting that legislation drawn up over the next
several months."

Yet just one week later, Immigration and Customs Enforcement carried out the
first major work-site raid under the Obama administration. ICE agents swarmed
Yamato Engine Specialists, a plant in Bellingham, Wash., and arrested 28 illegal
immigrants. A pro-immigrant organization, America's Voice, condemned the raids
as being "in stark contrast to the president's vision for common-sense
immigration policies."

Testifying recently before Congress, Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano claimed that she didn't know about the Bellingham raid beforehand and
that she has asked ICE for a review of the operation. But that was as far as
Napolitano was willing to go. She didn't disavow the raids. In fact, she appears
to support work-site enforcement efforts as long as they focus on employers as
well as workers. I bet she will continue the raids but tidy them up by arresting
a few employers and making sure anyone apprehended has access to legal counsel.

More marches on tap

That won't be good enough for those on the far left. In fact, some immigration
activists who want to voice their opposition to the raids and prod Obama to
tackle the immigration issue are planning another round of immigration marches
May 1.

This time, many of the same people who supported Obama in the last election
could be condemning him for keeping up the raids and dragging his feet on
immigration reform. Of course, because a spattering of Mexican flags never seems
to win the hearts and minds of the American people, the marches could backfire.
Yet the marchers don't seem anxious to stand down.

Personally, I'm not sure what the conflict is about. One can support both
comprehensive immigration reform and work-site raids. One has nothing to do with
the other. If employers or workers are breaking the law, it's the job of ICE, a
law enforcement agency, to arrest them. What's the other option   that one
should be free to violate federal law with impunity while lawmakers come up with
a policy? Besides, even if we had a conditional path to legalization for
undocumented immigrants, we would still need enforcement measures such as raids.
How else would you deal with those who don't meet the conditions?

Then again, for me, work-site raids don't represent the moral quandary they do
for others. For instance, I never saw eye to eye with the lawmaker who, last
year, lamented a situation where "communities are terrorized by ICE immigration
raids   when nursing mothers are torn from their babies, when children come home
from school to find their parents missing."

That person was Barack Obama, whose administration has just carried out a raid
of its own. No wonder people are confused.



LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Can Obama forge an immigration compromise

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 614 words


SAN DIEGO   President Obama is either daring or foolhardy   or maybe a little of
both.

Case in point: Although he has been criticized, even by supporters, for
overloading his agenda, Obama recently signaled that, before the end of his
first year in office, he'll take up no less challenging a cause than immigration
reform.

That's what the president recently told the 24 members of the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus in an hourlong private meeting. It is significant that,
according to statements issued by caucus members, immigration was the only item
on the agenda. Participants said that Obama mentioned his planned trip to Mexico
City next month, where he is due to meet with President Felipe Calderón to
discuss how the neighboring countries can work together to achieve comprehensive
immigration reform.

Obama echoed that theme before a crowd of about 1,300 people who recently
gathered for a town hall session in Southern California. When asked about
immigration, the president said the United States has to beef up its border
enforcement but also give undocumented immigrants a path to earned legalization.
Obama even argued that legalizing such immigrants helps U.S. workers by
eliminating a two-tiered system where employers can exploit those without papers
and in the process lower wages for everyone.

I'm glad to hear that Obama is planning to address the immigration issue sooner
rather than later. I'm just a little surprised, but maybe I shouldn't be.

Obama has been trying to fix everything else   from the economy to education to
health care. Why not also try to do something that some political observers say
is next to impossible? Fix the immigration system.

Congress has struck out on that before. From 2005 to 2008, it took several
swings at the immigration issue   with no luck. Not that we didn't learn a lot
in the process about why Congress can't seem to solve this problem. We learned
plenty.

We learned that business interests would use their clout to force lawmakers to
import guest workers for jobs that Americans wouldn't do, but that organized
labor would consider that concept a deal-killer. We learned that immigrant
advocacy groups wanted an unconditional path to legalization for the
undocumented, but that law and order conservatives would object to what they
call amnesty. Although we need a new round of tougher and easier-to-enforce
employer sanctions, it seems only right that they be accompanied by a
tamper-proof identification card so employers know who is legally eligible to
work. Conservatives fought the sanctions while liberals fought the ID card. In
the end, we were back at square one.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi still won't condone the raids conducted by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. She has been telling groups   most
recently, the U.S.-Mexico Border Issues Conference   that these operations are
"not the American way" because they sometimes separate families.

Correction. Enforcing the law is the American way. Pelosi struck a more
inspiring note when she told attendees: "Every person who comes here, and
certainly for the Hispanic community, when they come here, they make America
more American."

If Americans are really going to take another stab at immigration reform, we
need more talk like that. We also need more concessions from both sides and
leaders who will settle for half a loaf rather than go for it all and wind up
fighting for crumbs.

President Obama deserves credit for raising the immigration issue. But he
doesn't seem the type of leader to compromise on matters he considers important.
That's too bad because the key to this debate is compromise.


Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday

Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Obama administration gives conflicting signals on
immigration

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 605 words


What a mishmash the Obama administration has made of its position on immigration
reform.

The president recently promised the Congressional Hispanic Caucus that he'd
tackle immigration reform this year and argued that legalizing the undocumented
improves the economic power of all workers. But more recently, Vice President
Joe Biden told a group of Central American leaders that the economic crisis
makes this a bad time to push the subject. "It's difficult to tell a
constituency   while unemployment is rising, they're losing their jobs and their
homes   that what we should do is, in fact, legalize (illegal immigrants) and
stop all deportation," he said.

Obama and Biden should get their stories straight. Then again, there is similar
confusion at the Department of Homeland Security, the agency charged with
protecting the nation's borders.

On the one hand, homeland security officials recently told The Washington Post
that Secretary Janet Napolitano has put the brakes on a series of planned
immigration raids pending a department review of the policy. The officials said
that in the event the raids resume, Napolitano has asked agents to be more
careful in selecting targets and more conscious of the timing of these sweeps.
One senior official said the temporary freeze signaled what will be a formal
change in policy: U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents will be
encouraged to crack down on employers and businesses instead of simply arresting
low-level workers.

It is likely that this is all coming from the fallout over the administration's
first work-site raid in Bellingham, Wash., several weeks ago. Activists called
the action inconsistent with Obama's condemnation of such operations during the
campaign. But, in truth, it was compatible with what Obama has said at other
times about upholding the law.

Meanwhile, Mexican officials in the country's border states are alarmed that, as
a result of the raids and other enforcement measures, many of their people have
already been deported from the United States. Recently, Mexican officials have
begun complaining to their American counterparts that they don't have the
infrastructure or jobs to accommodate the immigrants who are returning.

How pathetic. Mexico is never going to be a player on the world stage as long as
it treats its own people as a threat to the nation's economy instead of what
they are: an economic engine.

Congress needs to give Napolitano time to work out a strategy on the raids.
Scrutinizing employers is an important step in the right direction. This is one
of the things that anger immigration activists: Workers are scapegoats while
their bosses get away scot-free. Everyone needs to be held accountable.

For now, there's tremendous confusion about what is going to happen, and whether
workplace raids will emerge as an important part of the Obama immigration
policy. I think they will be in the mix. And, if the raids do start up again,
you can bet that it won't just be employers who are targeted. Illegal workers
will once again be hauled off by the busload.

I'm fine with that. But civil libertarians and immigration activists won't be.
Neither will many in the Latino community, which threw two-thirds of its support
to Obama in 2008. It won't soften the blow that employers are also being held
accountable. People will still be deported, and families will still be torn
apart. That's what really has the activists up in arms. And if it all happens
again under the Obama administration, the president's honeymoon with Latinos
will be over.

I'm also fine with that.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 30, 2009 Thursday

San Jose immigration march today still on, despite worries about flu

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 303 words


A May Day immigration march scheduled Friday in San Jose   part of a national
push for the legalization of undocumented immigrants   will proceed as
scheduled, even as new swine flu cases emerged, and worries about its spread
intensified.

After consulting with county public health officials, organizers said they
decided to hold the march as planned. There is no ban on public gatherings now,
organizers said.

"We're aware that there are concerns," said Richard Konda, executive director of
the Asian Law Alliance during a news conference Thursday afternoon. "What we're
telling people is the same caution from the health department: If you're sick,
stay home and don't participate."

March organizers had initially hoped to draw as many as 10,000 to the gathering
that will end at San Jose's City Hall, but officials acknowledged that the swine
flu pandemic and its links to Mexico is likely to hurt attendance. By how much,
is not clear.

Richard Hobbs, interim executive director of Services, Immigrant Rights, and
Education Network (SIREN), said he talked with county health officials Wednesday
after learning of more cases of swine flu.

In Texas, health and education officials cancelled all high school sports events
after cases were identified in a number of school districts.

"There's no ban on public gatherings here," Hobbs said. "It's up to the health
department. We will respect that if it happens."

The march, and others like it that will be held in cities across the country,
hopes to draw political momentum from new U.S. Senate hearings on immigration
reform that began Thursday.

The San Jose march will start at 4 p.m. at a shopping center plaza on the corner
of King and Story Roads, and down Santa Clara Street to city hall on Fifth
Street.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A woman wears a face mask as a precaution against swine flu at the
Roberto Calderon hospital in Managua, Wednesday, April. 29, 2009.
Pediatrician and primary physician Dr. Ellen Rothman, left, gives Makhi Hatch,
4, an examination for his cough as his mother Stephanie Correa, center, watches
on, at the St. John's Well Child and Family Center in Los Angeles Wednesday,
April 29, 2009. The St. John's Well Child & Family Center, which oversees
clinics that treat Los Angeles' poor and uninsured, doctors have seen a surge in
patients complaining about flu-like symptoms.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 9, 2009 Saturday

Opinion: Navarrette: Why the Democrats are content to do nothing about
immigration.

BYLINE: Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 645 words


Democrats are in a tough spot on immigration reform. Actually, make that a
number of tough spots.

They're caught between pandering to Latino constituents who want them to strike
a deal that legalizes millions of illegal immigrants and catering to organized
labor, which adamantly opposes the one element of reform Republicans say must be
part of the deal: guest workers.

And now that Democrats control Congress and the White House, they've run out of
excuses to do nothing. But at the same time, they prefer a stalemate because
they can use the issue against Republicans.

The immigration debate   and the xenophobic language that some Republicans have
carelessly infused into it   helps Democrats look good to their Latino
constituents. But the spell is wearing off now that Latinos are beginning to
wonder why Democrats can't deliver immigration reform even when they have power.
Answer: Because not all of them want to deliver.

It's hard to know in which camp falls Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, who
recently called a hearing of a Senate subcommittee to explore the feasibility of
achieving  immigration reform in the midst of an economic recession. One of the
high points was the testimony of former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan,
who said what most economists won't say: "Illegal immigration has made a
significant contribution to the growth of our economy."

Meanwhile, labor claims the bad economy makes it unfeasible to bring in hundreds
of thousands of new workers for jobs that Americans should be doing.

But that argument is disingenuous. The unions were just as opposed to guest
workers when the economy was good. That's because one thing that hasn't changed
is that organized labor still sees itself as being in the protection business
protecting its members from the competition represented by foreign workers.

Democrats favor a reform package that would legalize the undocumented while
making a cursory pass at border enforcement. But the package would leave out any
mention of guest workers. Yet ditching guest workers is an effective way to
ensure that not a single Republican will sign on to the final product. In fact,
two of the most forceful champions for immigration forces in the GOP   Arizona
Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl   have already made clear that they won't support
any compromise that lacks a temporary worker program.

That spells doom for the immigration reform movement because Democratic leaders
are going to need at least a handful of Republican votes to offset the
all-but-certain defections of Blue Dogs who won't go along with what they
consider amnesty for illegal immigrants.

So now it's time for the advocates of comprehensive immigration reform to think
strategically, stop playing politics, and concentrate on getting results. They
need to rustle up as much support as possible from Republicans, and keep guest
workers in the mix if it helps them do so. They need to look for a
middle-of-the-road approach that gives the undocumented a chance to legalize
their status but stresses the concept of accountability by requiring those who
travel that road to acknowledge that they did wrong and attempt to make amends.
The reformers now need to show that they hear the concerns on the other side and
stop challenging the motives of those who disagree with them.

Not least of all, the reformers need to take advantage of a powerful yet
underutilized weapon: personal empathy. Many Americans have members of their
family tree who arrived on these shores only to experience mistreatment or
marginalization because they threatened those already here, either by taking
jobs or changing the culture. And it is those Americans who are just waiting to
be converted to the cause of immigration reform, provided their concerns are
addressed.

As the party in power, it is up to Democrats to begin the conversion. Now is the
time to start it.



LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday

Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Race and ethnicity must be part of immigration debate

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 600 words


A month ago, before most Americans had ever heard of Sonia Sotomayor, I
predicted to a group of friends that Latinos would get either a Supreme Court
justice or immigration reform   but not both. My theory: The political gurus in
the Obama White House know that many Americans think the country does too much
to accommodate the nation's largest minority as it is. Asking for more would
seem gluttonous.

Still, with the administration promising to at least restart the debate on
comprehensive immigration reform this year   although apparently waiting for
Congress to act first   advocates are now convening in symposiums or conference
calls to search for a new strategy to persuade Americans that it's time to fix a
broken system.

As someone who tries to travel down the middle on immigration   for instance,
favoring both a path to legalization for illegal immigrants and stringent
conditions on how to earn that privilege   I've been invited to participate in a
few of these sessions.

Some of what is being said   sprinkled with research and results from focus
groups   is insightful. Other parts of the dialogue are frustrating. For me, one
thing that is especially hard to swallow is that so many enlightened and
well-meaning immigration reform advocates are so eager to run away from the race
issue. They believe  that, once anyone on their side even hints that racism is
part of the immigration debate, the conversation is over.

And so, they say, the best way to increase the chances for reform is to avoid
that kind of talk and concentrate on arguments that might actually convince
people. Talk about personal responsibility, they say   about how those who are
in the country illegally must acknowledge wrongdoing, make amends, learn English
and otherwise assimilate. And, they say, avoid making any demands on U.S.
citizens   most of whom don't accept that they share any responsibility for the
current situation.

Still, I'm in no hurry to let go of the racial angle. A big part of the anxiety
that many Americans currently feel about increased immigration levels fits a
historical pattern. What worries people most is what they see as the inferior
quality of the immigrants coming ashore   or, if you prefer, crossing the
border.

After all, that's one way that racism typically manifests itself   through a
sense of superiority. It can also come through fear or animosity. Some Americans
dispute this and insist that race and ethnicity have nothing to do with concerns
over illegal immigration. Rather, what has so many people upset, they claim, is
that it is   hello   illegal.

Rubbish. If that were true, the debate wouldn't lapse so quickly into talk of
limiting legal immigration as well. After all, the Germans, Chinese, Irish, and
Italians who entered the country in the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries were
mistreated in much the same way that subsequent waves from other parts of the
world would be. Why? It's because, as foreigners, they were believed to be
inferior.

Which brings us to why it's important to be honest about racism in the
immigration debate: Acknowledging it allows Americans, the children of
immigrants, to empathize with new arrivals who suffer many of the same trials as
those who came before them.

Still, some maintain that the best strategy for getting comprehensive
immigration reform is to downplay racism because it makes some people feel
uncomfortable.

Yes, I know. The truth has a way of doing that. And any campaign that asks
Americans to deny the truth to achieve a political goal asks too much.


Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 14, 2009 Sunday

Obama, Congress flirt with tackling immigration reform

BYLINE: By Frank Davies Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; National; Local

LENGTH: 983 words


WASHINGTON   Immigration reform, an intractable issue that has frustrated
presidents and Congress for years, is making a comeback as a hot topic here.
Whether it makes it into legislation is another matter.

The Obama administration and Congress already have an ambitious to-do list for
the next few months, including health care reform, climate change legislation
and a Supreme Court confirmation.

But Obama plans to take time from those priorities this month to meet with
groups advocating for changes in the immigration system, including a path to
legal status for an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. He will be joined
by key members of Congress who will handle the issue.

The meeting was supposed to occur Wednesday, but has been postponed because
White House officials are scrambling to get a war spending bill through
Congress. Immigration advocates Friday were disappointed at the delay, but said
they still expect Obama to commit to a major push on the thorny immigration
issue.

"So far there's been a serious flirtation but not a marriage proposal," said
Angela Kelley, vice president at the Center for American Progress, a think tank
closely aligned with Democrats.

Obama won overwhelming Latino support in the 2008 election, in part because he
promised to push for an immigration overhaul that would include a legalization
plan. Now it's time to deliver, said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the San Jose Democrat who
chairs the immigration subcommittee in the House.

"He has to do more than say, 'I'm for it.' It's essential for him to put some
personal effort into this," said Lofgren, who will attend the White House
meeting.

If nothing gets done on immigration reform this year, "Latino voters will blame
him, because the president created the expectation we will see results," she
added.

Advocates for various reforms say they are optimistic because of several
factors, including Obama's victory and the disarray among Republicans, who worry
that they will lose Latino voters for years if they resist changes.

"We sure blew it the last time on immigration reform," Ed Gillespie, former
Republican National Committee chairman, told a tech group last week. If Congress
takes up the issue in a serious way this year, "that would be an opportunity to
make up some lost ground."

Because of the lack of jobs and tighter enforcement, the flow of illegal
immigrants has slowed dramatically, U.S. and Mexican officials say. The
undocumented immigrant population has not grown since 2006, according to the Pew
Hispanic Survey and Doris Meissner, a former top immigration official with the
Migration Policy Institute.

That may have taken some heat out of the issue. In a January survey by the Pew
Research Center for the People and the Press, 63 percent of the public   5
percent higher than in 2007   favored "providing a way for illegal immigrants
already in the U.S. to gain legal citizenship."

A broad coalition of business, labor, church and immigrant groups is pushing
hard to get the attention of Congress, as is the Center for American Progress,
headed by Obama adviser John Podesta.

Advocates are making an economic pitch that bringing undocumented workers "out
of the shadows" and requiring them to learn English and pay fees and fines to
gain legal status will add to the rolls of taxpayers. The Congressional Budget
Office estimated that legalization would increase net revenue by $65 billion
over 10 years.

Opponents of immigration dispute those arguments, maintaining that the economy
can't sustain large numbers of illegal immigrants.

"With the state of the economy it's just ridiculous to hear some employers say
they still need foreign labor," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which seeks to limit immigration.

He predicts more "attrition through enforcement," with a growing number of
undocumented workers returning to Latin American because of a lack of U.S. jobs
and tougher enforcement.

Many in Congress are reluctant to tackle the issue again after three years of
failure and debates that turned angry and emotional. In 2006, when thousands of
immigrant advocates held street rallies from San Jose to Boston, the Senate
passed a comprehensive bill, only to see it die in the House.

The Senate tried again in 2007, but the effort fizzled, and in 2008 no one in
Congress wanted to take up the issue during an election year. Lofgren said House
Democrats are wary of dealing with immigration unless the Senate grapples with
it first.

A comprehensive bill would likely include provisions of great interest to
California, such as an increase in visas for highly skilled workers and a guest
worker program for farmworkers. Rep. Mike Honda, a Campbell Democrat, is pushing
a measure making it easier for legal immigrants to bring in family members,
including same-sex partners.

"Any bill would have to include many elements to work," Lofgren said. "At the
same time, you don't want to include things that would sink it. It's a tricky
balance."

ON THE WEB Reliable data on immigration is often hard to come by. One dependable
source is the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute at
www.migrationinformation.org .

Contact Frank Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or 202-662-8921.


     ·    Legalization: Provide a path to legal status that would require fees,
          fines and learning English. One difficult issue: Would undocumented
          workers have to get in "the back of the line" behind those already
          applying for legal entry? Enforcement: Increase border security and
          workplace rules. There has been a debate about the best way to make
          sure employers hire legal immigrants. Guest workers: Improve programs
          to allow temporary or seasonal workers, such as farmworkers. High-tech
          workers: More visas for highly skilled graduate students, long a goal
          of the tech sector. Future immigration: Establish a commission to set
          future numbers for immigration, based on industry and labor needs.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday

Obama, Congress consider tackling immigration reform

BYLINE: By Frank Davies Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News;
National; World; Local

LENGTH: 1029 words


WASHINGTON   Immigration reform, an intractable issue that has frustrated
presidents and Congress for years, is making a comeback as a hot topic here.
Whether it makes it into legislation is another matter.

The Obama administration and Congress already have an ambitious to-do list for
the next few months, including health care reform, climate-change legislation
and a Supreme Court confirmation.

But Obama plans to take time from those priorities this month to meet with
groups advocating for changes in the immigration system, including a path to
legal status for an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. He will be joined
by key members of Congress who will handle the issue.

The meeting was supposed to occur this week, but was postponed because White
House officials were preoccupied with getting Congress to approve a war spending
bill, which it finally did Thursday. Immigration advocates were disappointed by
the delay, but said they still expect Obama to commit to a major push on the
thorny issue.

"So far, there's been a serious flirtation but not a marriage proposal," said
Angela Kelley, vice president at the Center for American Progress, a think tank
closely aligned with Democrats.

Obama won overwhelming Latino support in the 2008 election, in part because he
promised to push for an immigration overhaul that would include a legalization
plan. Now, it's time to deliver, said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the San Jose Democrat
who chairs the immigration subcommittee in the House.

"He has to do more than say, 'I'm for it.' It's essential for him to put some
personal effort into this," said Lofgren, who will attend the White House
meeting.

If nothing gets done on immigration reform this year, "Latino voters will blame
him, because the president created the expectation we will see results," she
added.

Advocates for various reforms say they are optimistic because of several
factors, including Obama's victory and the disarray among Republicans, who worry
that they will lose Latino voters for years if they resist changes.

"We sure blew it the last time on immigration reform," Ed Gillespie, former
Republican National Committee chairman, told a tech group last week. If Congress
takes up the issue in a serious way this year, "that would be an opportunity to
make up some lost ground."

Because of the lack of jobs and tighter enforcement, the flow of illegal
immigrants has slowed dramatically, U.S. and Mexican officials say. The
undocumented immigrant population has not grown since 2006, according to the Pew
Hispanic Survey and Doris Meissner, a former top immigration official with the
Migration Policy Institute.

Last year, 724,000 illegal immigrants were caught at the border, the lowest
total since 1973, the Homeland Security Department said in a report issued
Tuesday.

The decline in illegal immigration may have taken some heat off the issue. In a
January survey by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, 63
percent of the public   5 percent higher than in 2007   favored "providing a way
for illegal immigrants already in the U.S. to gain legal citizenship."

A broad coalition of business, labor, church and immigrant groups is pushing
hard to get the attention of Congress, as is the Center for American Progress,
headed by Obama adviser John Podesta.

Advocates are making an economic pitch that bringing undocumented workers "out
of the shadows" by requiring them to learn English and pay fees and fines to
gain legal status will add to the rolls of taxpayers. The Congressional Budget
Office estimated that legalization would increase net revenue by $65 billion
over 10 years.

Opponents of immigration dispute those arguments, maintaining that the economy
can't sustain large numbers of illegal immigrants.

"With the state of the economy it's just ridiculous to hear some employers say
they still need foreign labor," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which seeks to limit immigration.

He predicts more "attrition through enforcement," with a growing number of
undocumented workers returning to Latin American because of a lack of U.S. jobs
and tougher enforcement.

Many in Congress are reluctant to tackle the issue again after three years of
failure and debates that turned angry and emotional. In 2006, when thousands of
immigrant advocates held street rallies from San Jose to Boston, the Senate
passed a comprehensive bill, only to see it die in the House.

The Senate tried again in 2007, but the effort fizzled, and in 2008 no one in
Congress wanted to take up the issue during an election year. Lofgren said House
Democrats are wary of dealing with immigration unless the Senate grapples with
it first.

A comprehensive bill would likely include provisions of great interest to
California, such as an increase in visas for highly skilled workers and a guest
worker program for farmworkers. Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, is pushing a
measure making it easier for legal immigrants to bring in family members,
including same-sex partners.

"Any bill would have to include many elements to work," Lofgren said. "At the
same time, you don't want to include things that would sink it. It's a tricky
balance."

ON THE WEB For more immigration data, go to the nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute at www.migrationinformation.org .

Contact Frank Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or 202-662-8921.

IMMIGRATION OVERHAUL?

A plan for comprehensive changes in immigration policy would include many
elements. Here are some likely provisions:

Legalization: Provide a path to legal status that would require fees, fines and
learning English. One issue: Would undocumented workers have to get in "the back
of the line" behind those already applying for legal entry?
Enforcement: Increase border security and workplace rules. There has been a
debate about the best way to make sure employers hire legal immigrants.
Guest workers: Improve programs to allow temporary or seasonal workers, such as
farmworkers.
High-tech workers: More visas for highly skilled graduate students, long a goal
of the tech industry.
Future immigration: Establish a commission to set future numbers for
immigration, based on industry and labor needs.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 3, 2009 Friday

Opinion: Obama will need GOP support on immigration reform

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 697 words


President Barack Obama recently reignited the immigration debate when he told
reporters that congressional leaders of both parties were ready to "actively get
something done and not put it off until a year, two years, three years, five
years from now, but to start working on this thing right now."

In the months ahead, keep an eye on two things: the calendar and the issue of
guest workers.

The calendar: "Right now" might not be soon enough. The conventional wisdom is
that the longer Obama waits, the harder it will be to pass any immigration
reform legislation. One immigration activist I spoke with even had a deadline in
mind: March 2010. Congress has to discuss the bill this fall, he said, and pass
it no later than next spring. His thinking   and that of many others   is that
the 2010 midterm elections might cut into the Democratic majority in Congress,
and then the chance for immigration reform could slip away.

The flaw with such reasoning is that it assumes that Republicans are the main
obstacle to reform, and that, conversely, Democrats must be the main
facilitators. Yet Republicans are under a lot of pressure from business groups
to fix the immigration system so companies can more easily hire workers. As for
Democrats, the last time that Congress fumbled the chance at reform, in 2007,
they were the ones carrying the ball.

In fact, in this go around, it is the Democrats   specifically, Blue Dog
Democrats   who Obama has to worry about most. An estimated 40 House Democrats
are thought to be either too conservative to support a pathway for illegal
immigrants to become legal, or at risk of losing their seats if they vote for
such a measure.

This makes it all the more important that Obama win over at least some
Republican votes to offset the Democratic ones he can't count on. But the
problem harkens back to why Democrats had trouble passing reform two years ago.
You see, the Democratic Party is beholden to organized labor, which supports
immigration reform but with an important caveat. While it has no problem with
legalizing workers it hopes will become card-carrying, dues-paying union
members, it continues to resist the idea of allowing businesses   as part of the
bargain   to import into the United States hundreds of thousands of temporary
foreign workers.

Guest workers: In 2007, Democrats were caught in a tough spot between trying to
please Hispanic voters who wanted immigration reform and unions willing to kill
the deal if they couldn't manage to remove the language on guest workers. This
time, Democrats have figured a way out. They're prepared to simply steer clear
of the whole issue of guest workers, and propose legislation that only focuses
on enhanced border enforcement and a pathway to legalization.

This was the take from a speech that Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York   the new
chairman of the Senate judiciary subcommittee on immigration   gave last month
at an event sponsored by the Washington, D.C.-based Migration Policy Institute.
Schumer is going to write the immigration bill. And in laying out what he
considered to be key elements, he omitted any reference to guest workers. Yet if
guest workers are off the menu, don't expect Republicans to sit down at the
table. Even immigration moderates such as Sen. John McCain of Arizona and Sen.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina have drawn a line in the sand, and assured the
White House that if guest workers aren't part of the final bill, they won't
support it.

But wait. Didn't I say earlier that Obama needs Republican votes because he can
expect to lose a big chunk of Democratic support? So Schumer would be foolish
not to throw the GOP a bone on this one, and perhaps   as a state legislator in
Texas recently suggested to me   create a guest worker plan that is tied to
market forces. When unemployment goes up, the number of guest worker visas goes
down, and vice versa.

Should that language get in, you can expect organized labor to panic and put the
screws to Democrats again to oppose the bill. And, before you know it, we're
back where we started: with a broken immigration system and a Congress that
doesn't have the skills or the guts to fix it.

And they call this reform?



LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 7, 2009 Tuesday

Gay professor's asylum stands

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Jmangaliman@mercurynews.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 215 words


The federal government has decided not to appeal the political asylum granted a
gay Filipino professor who claimed in immigration court that he was repeatedly
abused as a child in the Philippines.

On May 21, an immigration court judge in San Francisco awarded political asylum
to Philip Belarmino, 43, who now lives in the Bay Area with his family.
Belarmino testified in court that he was sexually assaulted by other boys when
he was 9, 11 and 16 years old. He told the court that he feared reporting the
assaults to police, or revealing them to his family.

The immigration judge had given the federal government until June 22 to appeal
the judge's ruling, which also set aside pending deportation proceedings against
Belarmino for overstaying his visitor's visa. But the deadline passed without
the government filing an appeal.

"This assures the resolution of the case," he said Tuesday. "It's finality in a
way. It brings a lot of hope to me and I can move on."

Belarmino was an English professor at a public university in the Philippines.

"The waiting is now over," said Ted Laguatan, a San Francisco immigration
attorney who represented Belarmino.

In about a year, Laguatan said, Belarmino will be able to apply for a green
card, or legal permanent residency.

Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 7, 2009 Tuesday

Without federal appeal, asylum for gay Filipino professor becomes final

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman jmangaliman@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 256 words


The federal government has decided not to appeal the political asylum granted a
gay Filipino professor who claimed in immigration court that he was repeatedly
abused as a child in the Philippines.

On May 21, an immigration court judge in San Francisco awarded political asylum
to Philip Belarmino, 43, who now lives in the Bay Area with his family.
Belarmino testified in court that he was sexually assaulted by other boys when
he was 9, 11 and 16 years old. He told the court that he feared reporting the
assaults to police, or revealing them to his family.

The immigration judge had given the federal government until June 22 to appeal
the judge's ruling, which also set aside pending deportation proceedings against
Belarmino for overstaying his visitor's visa. But the deadline passed without
the government filing an appeal.

"This assures the resolution of the case," he said Tuesday. "It's finality in a
way. It brings a lot of hope to me and I can move on."

The immigration judge had given the federal government until June 22 to appeal
the judge's ruling, which also set aside pending deportation proceedings against
Belarmino for overstaying his visitor's visa.

Belarmino was an English professor at a public university in the Philippines.

"The waiting is now over," said Ted Laguatan, a San Francisco immigration
attorney who represented Belarmino.

In about a year, Laguatan said, Belarmino will be able to apply for a green
card, or legal permanent residency.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 17, 2009 Friday

Faith group to hold meeting on health care, immigration

BYLINE: By Shaun Bishop Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 269 words


More than 400 people are expected to gather today to urge local elected
officials to work toward lowering health care costs and achieving immigration
reform. Two state legislators are scheduled to speak at the event organized by
Peninsula Interfaith Action, an advocacy organization with a membership of about
20,000 people in 30 congregations from Daly City to Mountain View.

The theme is "Healthy and United Families," blending the issues of "unaffordable
health care and inhumane immigration policies," according to the group. The
group says health care reforms should include a sliding scale for contributions
-- so lower-income families have low out-of-pocket costs -- and a guarantee of
standard benefits. It also believes the government should reform visa programs
to give illegal immigrants an opportunity to become permanent residents. Among
the officials expected to attend today's event are state assemblymen Ira Ruskin,
D-Redwood City, and Jim Beall, D-San Jose, who will hear presentations by
Peninsula residents who have had difficulty with immigration policies or the
health care system. The event is intended to provoke discussion about the issues
and connect residents with their local representatives, and to change "a broader
climate of voter alienation, apathy, disengagement," group leader Thomas Atwood
said. "This is our first kick-off meeting for what we hope is a long campaign
until we get these reforms enacted," Atwood said. The event will take place
today from 3 to 4:30 p.m. at First United Methodist Church, 2915 Broadway,
Redwood City. E-mail Shaun Bishop at sbishop@dailynewsgroup.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 20, 2009 Monday

Mentally ill San Jose man faces deportation to Israel this week

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 680 words


Hank Nijmeh,  the mentally ill San Jose man whose family owns the iconic
Falafel's Drive-In, has lost his decade-long battle with U.S. immigration
authorities and will be deported this week to his native Israel, his attorney
said Monday.

Nijmeh was brought Monday from the Yuba County Jail   which has a contract with
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to hold immigration detainees   to an
ICE holding facility in San Francisco. There, his family said goodbye to him
through a glass window and a telephone hookup, said Angela Bean, whose Oakland
law firm has represented Nijmeh since 2002.

The 52-year-old Nijmeh's case is unusual because he has lived in the United
States for nearly 43 years. The former Boy Scout, who graduated from Del Mar
High School, is one of five children in a Palestinian Catholic family whose
father in the late 1960s bought the old Snow White Drive-In on Stevens Creek
Boulevard and introduced falafels to thousands of Santa Clara Valley residents.
Nijmeh and his dad ran the place for years.

ICE wouldn't tell Bean exactly when her client was being flown to Israel, but
she said immigration officials have indicated he will be deported in the next
day or so.

"For security reasons, we don't confirm when someone is being deported," said
ICE spokeswoman Lori Haley.

Nijmeh's mother and brother-in-law left for Israel on Monday so they can take
care of him when he arrives, Bean said. "The family is obviously really upset,"
she said.

His family says Nijmeh has no relatives left in Israel and that he speaks no
Hebrew and understands little Arabic.

Bean said she had talked to Nijmeh about a week ago after he was notified by ICE
that it had obtained the necessary travel documents from Israel to deport him.

Nijmeh has been diagnosed with "chronic psychotic paranoid disorder" and is
tormented by severe hallucinations. Bean said he has been prescribed
anti-psychotic medications but hasn't been taking them in recent days because,
he says, they hurt his chest.

"He's so afraid of being dumped in Israel and being interrogated and
incarcerated" because of his odd behavior, Bean said.

ICE officials say Nijmeh is just one of more than 100,000 "criminal aliens"
deported each year. Many are legal permanent residents whose criminal histories
make them candidates for deportation.

Nijmeh was first detained by immigration authorities in the late 1990s because
of two marijuana convictions.

He continued to have run-ins with the law during the past decade. Among other
things, he was convicted of striking his girlfriend during an altercation. His
family and his attorneys, however, say his mental illness was the root cause of
all the crimes.

In lengthy legal briefs, Nijmeh's attorneys have argued that if he were deported
he would, because of his mental illness, appear to be a suspicious-looking
Palestinian and be picked up by Israeli security police.

"Basically he's being punished for his mental illness   and that is ethically
wrong," said John Mitchem of San Jose, president of the local chapter of the
National Alliance on Mental Illness.

"To me the real issue is that so many people get into trouble with the law
because of their illness," he said. "We need a better way of dealing with such
people than simply throwing them in jail or deporting them."

ICE, however, says that "deportable aliens" with mental health problems are not
exempt from the consequences of immigration law.

Nijmeh didn't become a citizen automatically when both his parents naturalized
in the 1970s because he had already turned 18. And his family says he never got
around to applying for citizenship as an adult, in part because of his marijuana
smoking and mental illness.

Over the years, Nijmeh has lost a series of motions, orders and appeals. He has
been in ICE custody for more than three years.

His lawyers are appealing his deportation order to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, but the court in late April denied a stay that would have allowed him
to remain in the country during the appeal, clearing the way for his
deportation.

Contact Ken McLaughlin at 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hank Nijmeh in his Boy Scout uniform shortly after he arrived in the
United States from Israel at age 10.
Hank Nijmeh in happier days at his brother William's wedding.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Opinion: Legal immigrants need better protection from scams

BYLINE: By H. Thomas Wells Jr. Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 618 words


It's hard to stay one step ahead of crime. Schemers always seem to be on the
prowl for their next opportunity. In particular, citizens of other nations who
are eager to immigrate lawfully to the United States can fall victim to people
who offer solutions that are too good to be true.

Often these people call themselves notarios or notarios publicos. In some Latin
American nations, the term "notario público" refers to a highly educated,
closely regulated expert in the law. Here, however, the term's literal
translation, notary public, refers to a clerical position, and U.S. notaries are
not authorized to give legal advice.

While accredited immigration consultants offer legitimate services, unethical
consultants or notarios take advantage of those who think the word means
"licensed lawyer," or someone authorized to handle immigration matters.

California was one of the first states, back in the 1980s, to pass a law to
combat notario fraud, and in 2001 the state's attorney general created the
Office of Immigration Assistance. It has prosecuted more than two dozen
businesses for committing immigration fraud, but immigration attorneys who work
with clients to fix the mistakes of notarios say the problem still is rampant.

Many victims are afraid to report fraud to the state. Most recently, licensed
immigration attorneys have seen notarios trying to pick up clients by hanging
around federal immigration buildings   like those drivers at airports who try to
get you to bypass the official taxi line and ask, "Need a ride?"

Sen. Dianne Feinstein wants to try a new tactic. She, along with Sen. Edward
Kennedy, introduced legislation earlier this year to "[c]reate a new federal
crime to penalize those who engage in schemes to defraud aliens in connection
with federal immigration laws."

Notarios across the country continue to use false advertising and fraudulent
contracts and often charge a large upfront fee. After the checks have been
cashed and the paperwork filed, the clients receive a notice of deportation.
False and incorrect documents can drastically delay the citizenship process or
ruin it completely.

California and some other states prohibit literal translation of the phrase
"notary public" into Spanish, and consultants are supposed to conspicuously
display the fact that they are not lawyers. But California immigration lawyers
say they see Web sites that flat out ignore these laws.

Some attorneys are now turning to other state laws to fight notario fraud.

Lawyer David Zetoony thought consumer protection laws could help. He persuaded
his law firm to team up with the American Bar Association's Commission on
Immigration, and together they trained about 150 immigration lawyers how to
bring consumer protection cases against notarios. Now the commission has a
referral network online, www.fightnotariofraud.com , so that immigration
attorneys can work with pro bono litigators to shut down fraudulent notarios.
That site has help for fraud victims as well.

So far, victims have won test cases in Maryland and Virginia, barring the
notarios from "helping" anyone for the next 10 years and fining them thousands
of dollars. The information from these cases will become part of an
information-sharing repository through the ABA's Commission on Immigration.

We need members of Congress to pass tough laws, and we need lawyers to come
together to use laws of this land to hold wrongdoers accountable. Getting
tougher on notario fraud translates into access to justice for all   not justice
for a few, or for those who can pay for it, or those who are fluent in English.

H. THOMAS WELLS JR. is immediate past president of the American Bar Association.
He wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 10, 2009 Monday

Editorial: Immigration reform on hold. So is sanity on drug war

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 185 words


Mexican leaders were disappointed Monday to hear President Barack Obama's frank
pronouncement on immigration reform: It is not on the front burner this year.
And if it weren't for all the other pots boiling over on Obama's front burner
the economy, health care reform, energy   we'd be disappointed, too.

Immigration issues languished for eight years under the Bush administration,
which fiddled with enforcement but failed at the difficult task of winning
consensus, or at least majority support, on fundamental reform.

But perhaps the further wait provides time for a more thoughtful approach to
what's now the central cross-border issue   the drug cartels that grip Mexico.
They are armed with guns from the United States and driven by the insatiable
demands of the U.S. drug market.

Obama's statements at the North American summit in Guadalajara seemed to
reinforce the status quo for both the United States and Mexico. He may have had
little choice, given his inability to promise quick work on real reform. But we
hope for better from the president when border issues with Mexico do heat up in
Washington.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday

Newsom touts immigrants' rights in speech at Stanford

BYLINE: By Will Oremus Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 693 words


Gubernatorial candidate and San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom on Friday staked
out liberal ground on immigration and budget cuts in a speech to hundreds of
union workers at Stanford University.

"Do I support a driver's license for everybody? The answer is yes," Newsom said
to a burst of applause from members of SEIU United Service Workers West, who
gathered at the university for a two-day leadership convention. He touted San
Francisco's municipal identification cards, which are available to illegal
immigrants as well as citizens, as a model for the state to build on.

Meanwhile, the Democratic candidate railed against Republican Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger's recent use of an executive order to impose furloughs on state
employees, calling the move an "unconscionable" grab from hard-working
Californians. Newsom suggested the furloughs and other tough cuts could have
been avoided by raising the state's tobacco tax and imposing a new oil tax.

The speech was an early appeal to organized labor in Newsom's Democratic primary
campaign against state Attorney General Jerry Brown. Brown, who has led in early
polls though he has not yet formally declared his candidacy, is scheduled to
address the same union convention today at 9:30 a.m. at the Crowne Plaza Hotel
in Palo Alto.

Newsom appeared to connect with his audience on several points, especially his
support for immigrants' rights and his pledge to use his connections with big
businesses to push for better working conditions for their contracted employees.
Many of United Service Workers West's 40,000 members in California are employed
by contractors on behalf of large private firms, such as the recently unionized
Securitas security guards who work at Kaiser Permanente.

"I heard him be very bold today," said Sylvia Ruiz, the union's political
director. "I think for our immigrant members to hear him come out so
vociferously in support of driver's licenses" was significant, she added.

Newsom also touched on other hot-button issues related to immigration, including
a longstanding San Francisco policy not to undocumented residents for reporting
crimes or using city services.

"We are a sanctuary city proudly, we have stood on the principle of the
sanctuary city proudly, and if you think we haven't, listen to Lou Dobbs talk
about our city," he said, referring to the CNN commentator who has criticized
liberal immigration policies such as San Francisco's.

Newsom sought to distinguish himself Friday as a candidate unafraid to take
tough stands, saying other "Democrats are running away from these issues"
because they're "scared to death about the politics." He said he wouldn't back
down on controversial causes such as universal health care.

He also wasn't shy in his praise for unions, saying a rise in income disparity
nationally since World War II was the direct result of "the decline of labor
representation in this country." Asked after the talk if courting the labor vote
could hurt him at a time when some are blaming big union contracts for the
state's budget problems, Newsom said he thinks that blame is misplaced.

"I'm not courting labor," he added. "I come from a labor background. To me it's
just intuitive."

Union president Mike Garcia said he thought Newsom's speech went over well.

"What I saw tonight is that he definitely has the charisma and the ability to
move our members and to speak to their issues in a very strong way," Garcia
said. "He inspired people today. But he has a huge job ahead of him. What he did
here tonight he's going to have to take out to every corner of the state."

Terry White, a steamfitter at Stanford who is on his local union's negotiating
team, said he liked Newsom's goal of universal health care in California. But he
said he wasn't ready to declare his support for the mayor until he heard from
Brown as well.

Also withholding judgment was Victoria Marquez, a janitor from Los Angeles who
made the trip up to the Bay Area for the convention.

"He said all the right things," Marquez said in Spanish. "But with a lot of
people who are politicians, you can't really count on it until you see it in
action."

E-mail Will Oremus at woremus@dailynewsgroup.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 22, 2009 Saturday

Study: Immigration judge as stressed out as emergency room doctors, prison
wardens

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz hmintz@mercurynews.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; Crime; News; National

LENGTH: 979 words


On any given day, Immigration Judge Dana Leigh Marks can find herself listening
to a wrenching tale of an immigrant seeking asylum, fearing everything from
torture to death if returned to his or her homeland. Or she could be deciding
the fate of one of thousands of immigrants who find themselves facing
deportation each year, some of whom have been in the United States for years,
going to school, working and raising families.

In a cramped corner office in San Francisco's financial district, the case files
stacked on Marks' desk show the sheer volume of her task. The roughly 215
immigration judges in the country last year decided an average of more than
1,600 cases, dwarfing the workload of a full-time federal judge, who may have
about 350 cases on their docket at a time.

For Marks and other immigration judges around the country, it appears all those
stories and case files are starting to take their toll. In a study released this
summer by University of California-San Francisco researchers, immigration
judges, it turns out, are as stressed out and burned out as emergency room
doctors and prison wardens. And the study found female immigration judges far
more stressed than their male counterparts.

As U.S. Department of Justice employees, immigration judges ordinarily do not
speak publicly. But they didn't hold back with UCSF researchers. One judge told
researchers they have to "grovel like mangy street dogs" to convince top
immigration officials they need more time to deal with the crushing caseloads.
Another reported a "knot in my stomach" deciding asylum cases. And another told
researchers: "I can't take this place anymore. What a dismal job this is!"

The study does not entirely surprise Marks, president of the National
Association of Immigration Judges. She's now using the findings to push for
long-sought reforms to the system, including a proposal for the immigration
courts to break from Justice Department oversight.

"The depth and the severity is what was surprising,'' Marks said of the study.
"It's gotten a lot worse a lot faster."

Immigration courts have come under closer scrutiny in recent years as caseloads
exploded across the country. The number of immigration cases jumped from more
than 282,000 in 1998 to a projected 385,000 this year, with only a modest
increase in the number of immigration judges. Northern California's immigration
judges are based in San Francisco.

Federal appeals courts, which often review the work of the immigration courts,
have grown increasingly frustrated with some of the justice dispensed. A Mercury
News review three years ago found a San Francisco-based federal appeals court
was regularly overturning the immigration courts in the most important
immigration matters it decided.

A spokeswoman of the Executive Office of Immigration Review, which runs the
immigration court system for the Justice Department, said officials are aware of
the recent study and working to address its findings, which included
recommendations to provide far more resources to immigration judges.

Elaine Komis, the EOIR spokeswoman, said 19 new judges are being hired this
year, and the department is asking for 28 more judges in 2010. And during a
weeklong training session for all the judges earlier this month in Washington,
D.C., one segment included stress management.

But the findings of widespread stress and burnout in the study are cause for
concern among immigration rights advocates, who worry that frustrated,
overworked immigration judges are too often giving short shrift to immigrants in
their courtrooms.

Experts such as Karen Musalo, a Hastings College of the Law professor and
leading asylum lawyer, say there are ample numbers of judges who don't deserve
sympathy because "there are judges that just shouldn't be there."

But Musalo and others say many judges are well-intentioned but overburdened. In
particular, department pressure to push judges to decide immigration cases
quickly and erase backlogs has aggravated the tension in the system, according
to experts.

"We're driven by numbers, statistics,'' said Gilbert Gembacz, who retired last
year as an immigration judge in Los Angeles after 12 years on his court. "The
bean counters have taken over."

Bay Area immigration lawyers recently provided the San Francisco judges with a
survey of their performance, and the main concern in those findings   which are
not public   was ensuring judges remain patient and empathetic to the rights of
the immigrants.

"A lot of these judges appear easily frustrated,'' said Philip Hwang, who runs
the asylum program for the San Francisco Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights and
summarized the survey.

The UCSF study identified asylum cases as a leading cause of stress for the
immigration judges because of the stakes involved and the limited resources to
fully examine asylum claims.

"We're dealing with death penalty cases in a traffic court setting," Marks said.

On an ordinary day in immigration court, most asylum cases unfold behind closed
doors, one at a time. A government lawyer shooed a reporter out of Marks'
courtroom on a recent day earlier this month as the judge considered the asylum
petition of an Afghan woman.

Down the hall, more routine hearings involving deportation matters unfolded in
the courtroom of Judge Lawrence Di Costanzo, who plowed through a calendar of
cases, speaking slowly into a microphone to produce recordings of the
proceedings.

There was little sign of stress in the small, antiseptic courtroom, but most of
the hearings were routine matters far from resolution. For the judges and the
system, the stress comes later, when the decision is made on whether an
immigrant can stay in the country or must be sent away.

"You're dealing with someone's life,'' said Gembacz, the retired Los Angeles
judge. "I felt the stress disappear quickly when I retired."

Contact Howard Mintz at 408-286-0236

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday

Protesters outside Napolitano speech at SCU call for immigration overhaul

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; National; State; Local

LENGTH: 848 words


About 1,000 noisy but peaceful protesters greeted U.S. Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano when she returned to her alma mater Thursday night to
speak on global security.

The protesters' message: Tell your boss, President Barack Obama, to keep his
promise to work for the passage of a comprehensive immigration reform bill by
Congress.

As Napolitano, a former governor of Arizona and the valedictorian of Santa Clara
University's Class of 1979, spoke to a crowd of about 500 inside the Mayer
Theatre, the protesters carried signs urging the Obama administration to stop
trying to deport undocumented immigrants to their home countries.

The protesters, who marched to the campus from Santa Clara's Lafayette Park,
want to see legislation that will give the nation's estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants a path to legalization.

Carrying signs that said, "Justice for Immigrants," and "Keep Our Families
Together," the protesters were not allowed near the campus theater, where
Napolitano spoke. Instead, they gathered several hundred yards from the
building, at Homestead Road and Lafayette Street, many carrying candles.

The 9-month-old Democratic administration has decreased the number of workplace
raids that were common during the Bush administration. But the Obama
administration has supported a rapidly developing system called E-Verify, which
employers can use to instantaneously determine if a potential employee is
legally residing in the U.S.

The net effect, say the protesters, is the same: Workers lose their jobs,
families are fractured, people get deported and are forced to live against their
will in other countries.

In late September, a crackdown at an American Apparel factory in Los Angeles led
to the firings of 1,800 employees. Immigration authorities said the workers were
using false identity documents.

Exploited workers

Authorities, however, say they are simply trying to enforce the laws as humanely
as possible by eliminating the "job magnet" that draws so many illegal
immigrants to the U.S. They also say they are stopping the employment
exploitation of undocumented workers.

"Look, we are and will continue to be a nation of laws," Napolitano said. "And
laws need to be enforced. But we are also a nation of immigrants."

In New Orleans on Thursday, Obama promised to push for a comprehensive
immigration bill in 2010 and put Napolitano in charge of coming up with a plan.

Agreeing with protesters outside, Napolitano said a lot of America's immigration
laws are unwieldy and in many ways unfair.

"We're a nation that prides ourselves on our fairness," she said.

But as they carried signs such as "Family Unity Cannot Wait," protesters, who
came to Santa Clara from several Western states, decried the enforcement
policies of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of Homeland
Security.

Richard Hobbs, interim executive director of San Jose's Services, Immigrant
Rights and Education Network, noted that the last time Congress dealt with
immigration on a comprehensive level was 23 years ago. "It is inhuman and
against American core values to ask people to wait who have not been able to
legally work, drive, travel, vote or access a safety net during that time,"
Hobbs said.

He said more than 380,000 immigrants were detained in fiscal year 2008-09 in
jails and by local police officers deputized to perform federal immigration
work, and more than 440,000 people will be held in detention by the end of the
year. "The majority of these people do not have a criminal record, and yet the
Napolitano policies continue to separate families," he said.

The frustration from the protesters stems from stalled congressional efforts
over what to do with the nation's millions of undocumented immigrants, many of
whom have lived in the U.S. for decades and have children who are citizens. Some
advocates of a congressional immigration overhaul fear that Obama now lacks the
political will to get a bill passed anytime soon.

One reason is that the administration is mired in a debate over how to overhaul
the nation's health care system. And with the issue of illegal immigrants caught
up in the debate over health care, some advocates of immigration changes say
they fear that Obama's commitment to repairing the broken immigration system has
faded.

Broken families

Thursday's protests began with a news conference at Somos Mayfair, a community
organization in East San Jose, attended by about 200 people. Some of the
speakers were local residents who told poignant stories of how their families
were broken up because of immigration raids.

Yvette Jimenez, a 17-year-old San Mateo County girl who has five siblings, saw
her father deported to Mexico in December 2008. And immigration authorities are
now trying to deport their mother.

Since the father was the family's breadwinner, she said, the family has been
forced to live in motels and a homeless shelter.

"I'm a U.S. citizen and a senior in high school and want to go to college," she
said. "I don't know why my parents are being forced out of a country they taught
us to love."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Immigration reform supporters chant during a rally on Oct. 15, 2009, in
Santa Clara. The rally was held outside a speech by Department of Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano. Organizers said they were calling on
Napolitano to halt raids, deportations, 287g agreements, and the E-Verify
program. (Dai Sugano/Mercury News)
Immigration reform supporters chant during a rally on Oct. 15, 2009, in Santa
Clara. The rally was held outside a speech by Department of Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano. Organizers said they were calling on Napolitano to
halt raids, deportations, 287g agreements, and the E-Verify program. (Dai
Sugano/Mercury News)
Immigration reform supporters chant during a rally on Oct. 15, 2009, in Santa
Clara. The rally was held outside a speech by Department of Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano. Organizers said they were calling on Napolitano to
halt raids, deportations, 287g agreements, and the E-Verify program. (Dai
Sugano/Mercury News)
Immigration reform supporters chant during a rally on Oct. 15, 2009, in Santa
Clara. The rally was held outside a speech by Department of Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano. Organizers said they were calling on Napolitano to
halt raids, deportations, 287g agreements, and the E-Verify program. (Dai
Sugano/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 24, 2009 Tuesday

Amnesty International lambastes U.S. for treatment of immigrant detainees

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: SPORTS; Breaking; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special
Reports; News; State; Local; Business; Entertainment

LENGTH: 860 words


In a scathing report on the treatment of immigration detainees held in detention
centers and more than 300 local facilities such as the Santa Clara County Jail,
Amnesty International charges the federal government violates human rights by
allowing tens of thousands of people to languish in custody every year without
receiving hearings to determine whether their detention is warranted.

According to the 51-page report from the human rights group released today, the
vast majority of the detainees have a hard time getting an attorney, some so
desperate they ask to be deported even if they believe they're entitled to stay
in this country.

"Officials are locking up thousands of human beings without due process and
holding them in a system that is impossible to navigate,'' said Larry Cox,
executive director of Amnesty International USA.

Reflective of a new administration trying to soften ICE's often-harsh reputation
during the Bush era, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) says
Amnesty might have some good points.

"We do see reason for concern and are working hard to improve,'' said Cori
Bassett, an ICE spokeswoman based in Washington, D.C. "We care deeply about a
fair, humane system for folks in our custody.''

Much of the research for the report, titled "Jailed Without Justice: Immigration
Detention in the USA,'' was done in the Bay Area, whose main facility for
immigration detainees is the Santa Clara County Jail, where nearly 200 such
detainees are incarcerated.

Amnesty's criticism of the jail is relatively muted. The report's most serious
complaint is that the jail commingles criminal inmates with immigration
detainees   which Amnesty says is a violation of international standards because
people in "civil administrative detention'' should be kept separate from
criminals. Such commingling, however, is a common practice in the immigration
detention system throughout the country.

Santa Clara County began housing immigration detainees in 2003   and now depends
on the income from its federal contracts with the Department of Homeland
Security and the U.S. Marshals Service as the county's budget gap grows. In the
last fiscal year, which ended in October, the county received nearly $7 million
from ICE.

ICE says about 40 percent of the people it incarcerates are "criminal aliens''
a sweeping term that includes everyone from illegal immigrants awaiting
deportation after finishing state prison sentences to legal permanent residents
targeted for deportation because they've been convicted of serious traffic
offenses. The remainder are undocumented immigrants, often picked up in
immigration raids at workplaces and homes where immigration fugitives are
suspected to be hiding.

The fact the county houses so many immigration detainees has generated little
controversy over the years. "But I think that this report will raise a lot of
eyebrows,'' said Blanca Alvarado, who recently stepped down as a county
supervisor.

Last year, The New York Times, The Washington Post and CBS News found evidence
of shoddy health care, secrecy, lax standards and inadequate staff in the
detention system, where more than 400,000 people end up each year.

During the past decade the number of immigrants in detention each day has
tripled from 10,000 in 1996 to more than 30,000 last year.

"It's easy to lock up someone, throw away the key and then make him prove that
ICE is wrong,'' said Sarnata Reynolds, Amnesty InternationaI USA's policy
director for refugee and migrant rights. .

Amnesty says in the report that ICE increasingly relies on contracts with states
and counties to house its detainees   two-thirds are now held in local and state
facilities   and that the practice leads to abuses. Amnesty says oversight is
"almost nonexistent.''

But Santa Clara County Jail officials say Amnesty seems to be off the mark on
the "oversight'' point.

Edward Flores, chief of the county Department of Correction, said the main jail
and the women's facility at Elmwood go through annual ICE inspections as well as
monthly audits, and have "been found to be acceptable.''

Unlike criminal defendants, who are entitled to a free attorney if they cannot
afford one, low-income immigrants usually have to depend on the kindness of
pro-bono attorneys. The result is that more than 80 percent of immigration
detainees lack a lawyer.

In the Bay Area, immigration detainees looking for free attorneys depend mostly
on two groups: the Asian Law Caucus in San Francisco and the Immigration Law
Clinic at the University of California-Davis School of Law. But those groups are
inundated with requests.

Sin Yen Ling, who handles all of the immigrant detention cases for the Asian Law
Caucus, said the group gets about five daily calls from detained immigrants and
their relatives, but can only take a maximum of three cases per month.

Without representation, Amnesty says, many immigrants simply give up and return
to their home countries, even if they feel they have a strong case that they're
entitled to stay in the United States.

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5552.


 Amnesty International USA report - Get more Business Documents

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday

Opinion: Arizona sheriff is an embarrassment to Homeland Security czar

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarette Jr. Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 769 words


SAN DIEGO   One of the most dangerous places to be in Arizona is caught between
Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio and one of his publicity stunts. That's just
where Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano finds herself.

Months ago, Arpaio and his deputies began scouring Hispanic neighborhoods in the
Phoenix area looking for illegal immigrants. So far, hundreds have been hauled
away. Often in these types of operations, "probable cause" gets defined as brown
skin and Spanish accents. So, there is no telling how many U.S.-born Hispanics
were detained and harassed in the process.

All of which sets the stage for the stunt. The man who put inmates in pink
underwear and fed them green bologna has some people in Arizona seeing red after
he recently paraded about 200 illegal immigrants in shackles and prison stripes
to his notorious "Tent City."

Of course, Arpaio did this after alerting the media.

Previous lawsuits

The inmates are to stay in the tents until sentenced and deported. That's right.
They haven't been convicted or sentenced yet. But in Maricopa County, the little
things need not interfere with punishment. Arpaio touted the gesture as a
"financially responsible alternative to taxpayers already overburdened by the
economic drain imposed by a growing number of illegal aliens on social services
like education and health care."

Malarkey. If Arpaio cared about taxpayers, he would have shown remorse after
millions of tax dollars went to settle lawsuits alleging prisoner abuse in the
county jail.

Arpaio normally counts the equally ambitious Maricopa County Attorney Andrew
Thomas as a cohort in his shenanigans. But not this time. After Arpaio announced
he would be segregating the illegal immigrants   most of whom are Hispanic
into a separate section of Tent City, Thomas got skittish and jumped off the
Arpaio bandwagon. "Racial and ethnic segregation is unconstitutional," Thomas
said.

Immigrant rights organizations see the mess in Arizona as a result of a lack of
leadership in Washington.

"Without a comprehensive solution at the federal level, we have a lot of chaos,"
said Douglas Rivlin, director of communications at the National Immigration
Forum. "And nobody is better at exploiting chaos for his own reality show than
Sheriff Joe Arpaio."

The organization is asking the federal government to bar Arpaio from
participating in the federal 287(g) program that allows local police agencies to
enforce U.S. immigration law as long as their officers are trained to
investigate if people are here illegally. The power to make that call lies with
someone who is well acquainted with Arpaio: Napolitano.

As the former governor of Arizona, Napolitano is in a unique position to spell
out what role, if any, local and state agencies should play in enforcing federal
immigration laws. My own view is that blurring the line between jurisdictions is
a terrible idea. But I want to hear what Napolitano thinks. And thanks to
Arpaio, we might soon find out. The sheriff is thrusting her right into the
middle of one of the most controversial and divisive issues in the immigration
debate.

It serves her right. Climbing her way up the ladder to the governor's office,
Napolitano was much too eager to cuddle with America's Most Ridiculous Sheriff.

In 1997, Attorney General Janet Reno filed a lawsuit against Arpaio for
allegedly violating the constitutional rights of prisoners in his jail. The
lawsuit was eventually settled after the sheriff agreed to improve conditions.

At the time, Napolitano was U.S. attorney for Arizona with ambitions of running
for Arizona attorney general. She joined Arpaio, who at the time enjoyed
approval ratings near 80 percent, at a news conference and undermined Reno by
declaring the lawsuit a "technicality" and dismissing it as little more than "a
lawyer's paper." Arpaio threw his support behind Napolitano, which helped her
get elected.

Long history

Almost a decade later, as governor, Napolitano lent her voice to Arpaio's
complaints that the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency was refusing to
pick up and deport illegal immigrants apprehended by Arpaio's deputies.

The duo quarreled a bit when Napolitano took away $1.6 million in state funds
slated to help Arpaio fight illegal immigration. But now that Republicans once
again control the governor's office, the funding has been restored.

This means that the people of Arizona will continue to pay for Sheriff Joe
Arpaio's circus act, in more ways than one. That is, unless Napolitano finally
does the right thing and shuts down the performance.

Ruben Navarrette is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday

Opinion: Arizona sheriff is an embarrassment to Homeland Security czar

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarette Jr. Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 764 words


SAN DIEGO -- One of the most dangerous places to be in Arizona is caught between
Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio and one of his publicity stunts. That's just
where Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano finds herself.

Months ago, Arpaio and his deputies began scouring Hispanic neighborhoods in the
Phoenix area looking for illegal immigrants. So far, hundreds have been hauled
away. Often in these types of operations, "probable cause" gets defined as brown
skin and Spanish accents. So, there is no telling how many U.S.-born Hispanics
were detained and harassed in the process.

All of which sets the stage for the stunt. The man who put inmates in pink
underwear and fed them green bologna has some people in Arizona seeing red after
he recently paraded about 200 illegal immigrants in shackles and prison stripes
to his notorious "Tent City."

Of course, Arpaio did this after alerting the media.

The inmates are to stay in the tents until sentenced and deported. That's right.
They haven't been convicted or sentenced yet. But in Maricopa County, the little
things need not interfere with punishment. Arpaio touted the gesture as a
"financially responsible alternative to taxpayers already overburdened by the
economic drain imposed by a growing number of illegal aliens on social services
like education and health care."

Malarkey. If Arpaio cared about taxpayers, he would have shown remorse after
millions of tax dollars went to settle lawsuits alleging prisoner abuse in the
county jail.

Arpaio normally counts the equally ambitious Maricopa County Attorney Andrew
Thomas as a cohort in his shenanigans. But not this time. After Arpaio announced
he would be segregating the illegal immigrants   most of whom are Hispanic
into a separate section of Tent City, Thomas got skittish and jumped off the
Arpaio bandwagon. "Racial and ethnic segregation is unconstitutional," Thomas
said.

Immigrant rights organizations see the mess in Arizona as a result of a lack of
leadership in Washington.

"Without a comprehensive solution at the federal level, we have a lot of chaos,"
said Douglas Rivlin, director of communications at the National Immigration
Forum. "And nobody is better at exploiting chaos for his own reality show than
Sheriff Joe Arpaio."

The organization is asking the federal government to bar Arpaio from
participating in the federal 287(g) program that allows local police agencies to
enforce U.S. immigration law as long as their officers are trained to
investigate if people are here illegally. The power to make that call lies with
someone who is well acquainted with Arpaio: Napolitano.

As the former governor of Arizona, Napolitano is in a unique position to spell
out what role, if any, local and state agencies should play in enforcing federal
immigration laws. My own view is that blurring the line between jurisdictions is
a terrible idea. But I want to hear what Napolitano thinks. And thanks to
Arpaio, we might soon find out. The sheriff is thrusting her right into the
middle of one of the most controversial and divisive issues in the immigration
debate.

It serves her right. Climbing her way up the ladder to the governor's office,
Napolitano was much too eager to cuddle with America's Most Ridiculous Sheriff.

In 1997, Attorney General Janet Reno filed a lawsuit against Arpaio for
allegedly violating the constitutional rights of prisoners in his jail. The
lawsuit was eventually settled after the sheriff agreed to improve conditions.

At the time, Napolitano was U.S. attorney for Arizona with ambitions of running
for Arizona attorney general. She joined Arpaio, who at the time enjoyed
approval ratings near 80 percent, at a news conference and undermined Reno by
declaring the lawsuit a "technicality" and dismissing it as little more than "a
lawyer's paper." Arpaio threw his support behind Napolitano, which helped her
get elected.

Almost a decade later, as governor, Napolitano lent her voice to Arpaio's
complaints that the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency was refusing to
pick up and deport illegal immigrants apprehended by Arpaio's deputies.

The duo quarreled a bit when Napolitano took away $1.6 million in state funds
slated to help Arpaio fight illegal immigration. But now that Republicans once
again control the governor's office, the funding has been restored.

This means that the people of Arizona will continue to pay for Sheriff Joe
Arpaio's circus act, in more ways than one. That is, unless Napolitano finally
does the right thing and shuts down the performance.

Ruben Navarrette is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 28, 2009 Saturday

Peninsula readers' letters

BYLINE: From Daily News Group readers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 693 words


Illegal aliens contribute more than they take

Dear Editor: In response to one of your Feb. 18 letters, illegal aliens have
been coming over the border forever and a day, to work at jobs that the average
American will not do. Usually, an illegal is paid $1 to $2 per hour. They pick
strawberries, melons, tomatoes and other crops that machines can't.

They do this because from their home countries, the U.S. dollar is worth vastly
more than their monies   sometimes 20 pesos to the dollar.

That money that they send home will buy much food and sundry items. Illegals
actually benefit a society they live and work in. And they pay taxes because
many sweat shops will hire them if they can provide SSI numbers, which you can
buy off the street.

The truth is, we are illegally occupying lands seized via trumped-up
circumstances. It is Americans who are illegal here in California, Arizona,
Utah, New Mexico, Colorado and elsewhere.

Hispanics and Asian illegals contribute more than they take. So all the
naysayers need to realize what they are saying.

David Lee Hughes

Lancaster

Time to resume executions

Dear Editor: I read that we are spending $346 million for a death row complex at
San Quentin, estimated at $450,000 per cell. Is that not pork barrel spending
money we don't have? We have 679 prisoners condemned to death and they are still
there because our courts deemed the death chamber lethal injection is inhumane.
Was not the murderer's act inhumane? Personally, I think the murderers should
die by the same means they dealt.

I did not have the time to look up what our Constitution says about a ban of
cruel and unusual punishment. We, the people, voted for the death penalty. The
bureaucracy has to stop and the executions have to go on. Too many of the
victims' families have lived for years without closure   that is also inhumane.
Most of those on death row were caught red-handed committing their crimes. Why
should taxpayers foot the bill of approximately $40,000 a year to house a
killer? The present system takes too long to carry out their sentences. Inmates
do not deserve hotel-type accommodations.

We don't need a new death row building addition. Just execute the present
inmates and make room for the new.

Walter Haag,

Millbrae

True liberalism?

Dear Editor: Until the last few days I never knew that I lived so close to God.
The recently published letters from God-like local residents demanding the
condemnation and exclusion of the right to own property (granted in the Bill of
Rights) from Condoleezza Rice rather amazes me.

This reminds me of John Kerry and Ted Kennedy when they both worked tirelessly
to stop the development of wind generation facilities near their summer homes.

Is this the true manifestation of liberalism?

Rex White,

Menlo Park

Offended by letters

Dear Editor: The two emotional letters on Feb. 22, under separate headings but
very similarly written about the supposed "insensitive crimes" of Jagjit Singh's
statements, left me very confused and wondering about his presumed insensitive
remarks. So I referred back to Jagjit Singh's original letter of Feb. 20 to read
and judge for myself.

To my surprise and relief, I find that the two respondents have not furnished
any clear facts or specific information refuting Jagjit Singh's footnoted
comments. In fact it would seem that he has quoted world-renowned and reputable
persons and organizations of stature and justice, i.e. Bishop Desmond Tutu,
Jewish author Susan Nathan and Amnesty International, in referring to the '60
Minutes' Simon report. It behooves me to have to read such ill-founded
accusations by respondents maligning someone, which you have chosen to print in
your paper without any attempts by you to even so much as clarify the
circumstances or the validity of the accusations.

The question of your double standards in this approach is suspect in my eyes,
and so is your selection of such letters. So why do these kind of caustic yet
well-organized and pained letters continue to flourish in your paper? Is this
the only way left for us to get cathartic, by destroying someone else's
reputation? Is this the type of "hope" we have to endure still?

Iqbal Serang,

Palo Alto

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 17, 2009 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette Jr: Schwarzenegger comes to the defense of illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 586 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has been taking a beating from the public for recent
comments intended to force Californians to stop blaming illegal immigrants for
the state's budget crisis.

Schwarzenegger is not backing down. In fact, he's ratcheting up the rhetoric. In
the process, he's comforting the afflicted and afflicting the comfortable.

During a recent meeting with the San Diego Union-Tribune editorial board,
Schwarzenegger compared the tendency of Californians to treat Latino immigrants
as scapegoats for the state's economic crisis to how Jews were blamed by the
Nazis for Germany's economic difficulties following World War I.

The governor continues to attack the claim that California is in economic
distress because the state provides services to illegal immigrants. He points
out that the real drain is the enormous amount of money that goes out in
salaries, benefits and pensions for state workers. There is a spending problem,
a tax problem and a lack-of-a-rainy-day-fund problem, he says.

That's true. But many Californians refuse to face facts. I asked Schwarzenegger
what he thought of the unfavorable reaction to his comments.

"I understand the way people think," Schwarzenegger said. "And I don't blame
them for the limited amount of information they have. But I think it's very
important that we always correct (misinformation) and talk about how the reality
works. Because when you get asked, 'Isn't it the illegal immigrants who caused
this budget problem and this budget mess and why we have a $24 billion budget
crisis?' you've got to go and tell people, 'That is not so.' "

I pressed him to explain what it is about the issue that makes it hard for
people to see the positive contributions of illegal immigrants as well as the
negative.

"Since the history of this world," Schwarzenegger said, "people were very
protective of their countries, very protective of their neighborhoods, very
protective of their property and everything   that's why they built walls and
fences around their property. ... It's human nature."

Sadly, he said, another part of human nature is for people to sometimes view one
another with suspicion or dislike.

Then Schwarzenegger seized on a dramatic historical example to illustrate his
point about scapegoats.

"I come from Germany," he said. "So I'm a little bit more sensitive about it
because it's led to atrocities and all kinds of crimes that were committed just
because there were people who fell for it and they pointed at the Jews, that
this is the problem with the economy going down and all those kinds of things.
And there were people blamed who were hardworking like everyone else, Germans
like everyone else, but they were blamed, and the next thing you know, they were
all being executed."

(Schwarzenegger was born in Austria, which was annexed by Germany before World
War II.)

Obviously, Schwarzenegger's comments should not be taken literally. He wasn't
comparing the experience of Latino immigrants today to everything that happened
to Jews in Nazi Germany. All he was saying   and it deserves to be said   was
that there are dangers to blaming a bad economy and all of society's ills on one
group or another.

Latinos know about hate. According to FBI statistics, they represent the largest
percentage of hate-crime victims sought out because of ethnicity.

In this climate, someone needs to speak up for immigrants, even the illegal
kind. Don't look now, but, in California, someone just did.


Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 25, 2008 Thursday

Day laborer jobs dry up in wilting economy

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Bay Area News Group

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 804 words


It had been four days since Francisco Castillo last worked, earning $10 an hour
helping a San Jose family move. And the 35-year-old Mexican immigrant wasn't
sure when his next job was going to come in at St. Joseph the Worker Center.

On a recent afternoon at the center, housed in an East San Jose warehouse that's
been converted into a gathering place for day laborers, 50 workers were on the
waiting list. At the rate jobs were trickling in, Castillo expected to wait
about six more days before he reached the top of the job list again, he said
over a lunch of canned corn, rice and sausages.

Across the Bay Area, and in many such centers that serve documented and
undocumented workers around the country, the global financial crisis is hitting
the sector of local economies once powered by home improvement projects and
construction. The day jobs that placed immigrant workers such as Castillo in the
job market have all but dried up as the housing crisis forced many homeowners to
forego gardening, housecleaning and other work they used to hire out.

Directors of day labor programs across the Bay Area report a dramatic decline in
jobs, at the same time more and more day laborers are seeking work and food.
Like Castillo, many of the workers now coming into day labor centers used to
hold steady jobs.

Without employment, a growing number of the workers are relying more on local
food banks, unable to send money to their families in Mexico and other countries
in Latin America. Although there aren't any official estimates, center officials
say that thousands of immigrants in California have returned to their home
countries.

"It's difficult for me to see and watch what's happening," said Mary Mendez,
longtime director of the St. Joseph the Worker Center. "But our encouragement is
that things are going to get better."

A year ago, the majority of the 60 workers who might have come to the center on
a given day would have all been sent out to paint homes, mow lawns or help
someone move. "If we get five in one day now," Mendez said, "we're lucky."

Maria Marroquin, director of the Mountain View Day Worker Center, is seeing
similar numbers.

"Four jobs one day and 100 people waiting. Seven jobs, 100 hundred people. Nine
jobs, 100 people," said Marroquin, reading from her monthly reports. "This is
the drama."

The crisis is national in scope, said Marroquin, president of the National Day
Laborer Organizing Network, a group of 41 centers in California and 10 other
states.

"I'm worried definitely," Marroquin said. "We're trying to approach the
situation with an optimistic view. And I believe in praying."

At Monument Futures, a day labor center in Concord where workers pay the
equivalent of 33 cents a day to be members, the number of workers coming in
daily to seek work has plummeted.

During peak membership in the past couple of years, 100 to 120 workers would
come in one day. Many would find day jobs; others would get steady, temporary
jobs.

The membership fees then were $22 a month, or about 73 cents. Today, about 60
workers come in daily, and the center has slashed membership fees in half.

"Most of the guys are lucky to get one day of work in a week," said Mike Van
Hofwegen, interim director of Monument Futures.

On the streets   outside hardware stores and lumber yards   the situation is no
different, said Castillo, who lives with a sister in San Jose.

He worked five years as a stock boy at a warehouse in Mountain View. A year ago,
he lost his job and has been coming to the day labor centers in San Jose and
Mountain View.

"Today no one called," Castillo said. "No jobs. We're all waiting."

Rosana Herrera, 31, a Mexican immigrant from Vera Cruz, worked for six years as
a nurse's aide at a senior center in Los Gatos. A month and half ago, she was
laid off, and she's been coming to the Mountain View center ever since. One day
last week, she worked as a housekeeper for six hours.

She said she does not have plans to return to Mexico.

"It's better to be bad off over here than to be bad off over there," Herrera
said. "At least there's a chance to get one day of work here."

After lunch, Herrera and a group of workers retired to a back room, where they
followed instructions from a volunteer on how to cut out paper stencils for a
T-shirt silkscreen.

Many of the day labor centers are keeping workers busy with English classes, job
safety training and workshops on how to start their own businesses. In Concord,
day workers who learned that a local food bank had run out of food collected
$713 and food, giving it all to the food bank.

Van Hofwegen said the economic downturn is forcing day labor centers and the
immigrants who use them "to recast ourselves."

"We have to think beyond a day job," he said. "We have to be more intentional
about long-term, sustainable kinds of things, like developing work co-ops."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 25, 2008 Thursday

Day laborer jobs dry up in wilting economy

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 818 words


It had been four days since Francisco Castillo last worked, earning $10 an hour
helping a San Jose family move. And the 35-year-old Mexican immigrant wasn't
sure when his next job was going to come in at St. Joseph the Worker Center.

On a recent afternoon at the center, housed in an East San Jose warehouse that's
been converted into a gathering place for day laborers, 50 workers were on the
waiting list. At the rate jobs were trickling in, Castillo expected to wait
about six more days before he reached the top of the job list again, he said
over a lunch of canned corn, rice and sausages.

Across the Bay Area, and in many such centers that serve documented and
undocumented workers around the country, the global financial crisis is hitting
the sector of local economies once powered by home improvement projects and
construction. The day jobs that placed immigrant workers such as Castillo in the
job market have all but dried up as the housing crisis forced many homeowners to
forgo paying for gardening, housecleaning and other work they used to hire out.

Directors of day-labor programs across the Bay Area report a dramatic decline in
jobs. At the same time more and more day laborers are seeking work and food.
Like Castillo, many of the workers now coming into day-labor centers used to
hold steady jobs.

Without employment, a growing number of the workers are relying more on local
food banks, unable to send money to their families in Mexico and other countries
in Latin America. Although there aren't any official estimates, center officials
say that thousands of immigrants in California have returned to their home
countries.

"It's difficult for me to see and watch what's happening," said Mary Mendez,
longtime director of the St. Joseph the Worker Center. "But our encouragement is
that things are going to get better."

A year ago, the majority of the 60 workers who might have come to the center on
a given day would have all been sent out to paint homes, mow lawns or help
someone move. "If we get five in one day now," Mendez said, "we're lucky."

Maria Marroquin, director of the Mountain View Day Worker Center, is seeing
similar numbers.

"Four jobs one day and 100 people waiting. Seven jobs, 100 hundred people. Nine
jobs, 100 people," Marroquin said, reading from her monthly reports. "This is
the drama.''

The crisis is national in scope, said Marroquin, president of the National Day
Laborer Organizing Network, a group of 41 centers in California and 10 other
states.

"I'm worried definitely," Marroquin said. "We're trying to approach the
situation with an optimistic view. And I believe in praying."

At Monument Futures, a day-labor center in Concord where workers pay the
equivalent of 33 cents a day to be members, the number of workers coming in
daily to seek work has plummeted.

During peak membership in the last couple of years, 100 to 120 workers would
come in one day. Many would find day jobs; others would get steady, temporary
jobs.

The membership fees then were $22 a month, or about 73 cents. Today, about 60
workers come in daily, and the center has slashed membership fees in half.

"Most of the guys are lucky to get one day of work in a week," said Mike Van
Hofwegen, interim director of Monument Futures.

On the streets   outside hardware stores and lumber yards   the situation is no
different, said Castillo, who lives with a sister in San Jose.

He worked five years as a stock boy at a warehouse in Mountain View. A year ago,
he lost his job and has been coming to the day-labor centers in San Jose and
Mountain View.

"Today no one called," Castillo said. "No jobs. We're all waiting."

Rosana Herrera, 31, a Mexican immigrant from Vera Cruz, worked for six years as
a nurse's aide at a senior center in Los Gatos. A month and half ago, she was
laid off, and she's been coming to the Mountain View center ever since. One day
last week, she worked as a housekeeper for six hours.

She said she does not plan to return to Mexico.

"It's better to be bad off over here than to be bad off over there," Herrera
said. "At least there's a chance to get one day of work here."

After lunch, Herrera and a group of workers retired to a back room, where they
followed instructions from a volunteer on how to cut out paper stencils for a
T-shirt silk-screen.

Many of the day labor centers are keeping workers busy with English classes,
job-safety training and workshops on how to start their own businesses. In
Concord, day workers who learned that a local food bank had run out of food
collected $713 and food, giving it all to the food bank.

Van Hofwegen said the economic downturn is forcing day-labor centers and the
immigrants who use them "to recast ourselves."

"We have to think beyond a day job," he said. "We have to be more intentional
about long-term, sustainable kinds of things, like developing work co-ops."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Primo Flores, photographed December 11, 2008, has been out of work
since he lost his job as a driver for rental car companies at the airport. Now
he is one of the dozens of day laborers who spend time at the St. Joseph the
Worker Center in San Jose. Flores says he hasn't had any work in three months.
He lives in his truck and relies on the center for food. He spends about 4-5
hours a day at the center and also goes to a Home Depot or Orchard Supply in
search of work. At day worker centers across the Bay Area, immigrant workers are
feeling the full brunt of the economic crisis. There are fewer jobs coming in
for gardening, painting, moving and other handyman jobs. Increasingly, the
workers are turning to local food and feeding programs, putting a strain on
already-strained community resources. (Pauline Lubens/San Jose Mercury News)
Day laborers train doing carpentry at the St. Joseph the Worker Center December
11, 2008 in San Jose. Under a grant from the city of San Jose, the center offers
training in auto mechanics, carpentry, basic handyman skills and landscaping. At
day worker centers across the Bay Area, immigrant workers are feeling the full
brunt of the economic crisis. There are fewer jobs coming in for gardening,
painting, moving and other handyman jobs. Increasingly, the workers are turning
to local food and feeding programs, putting a strain on already-strained
community resources. (Pauline Lubens/San Jose Mercury News)
Victor Mendez is one of the day laborers training to do carpentry at the St.
Joseph the Worker Center December 11, 2008 in San Jose. Under a grant from the
city of San Jose, the center offers training in auto mechanics, carpentry, basic
handyman skills and landscaping. At day worker centers across the Bay Area,
immigrant workers are feeling the full brunt of the economic crisis. There are
fewer jobs coming in for gardening, painting, moving and other handyman jobs.
Increasingly, the workers are turning to local food and feeding programs,
putting a strain on already-strained community resources. (Pauline Lubens/San
Jose Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 1, 2009 Sunday

Layoffs mean more than lost wages for H-1B visa holders

BYLINE: By Pete Carey Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local;
Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 941 words


For the two out-of-work engineers, it's a race against time. They've lost their
Silicon Valley jobs and need to quickly find others at a time when companies
everywhere are tightening their belts.

Both are Indians whose advanced degrees were earned at American universities.
And both are facing the inflexible rules of their H-1B work visas.

Technically, as soon as they lost their jobs, they were required to leave the
country. In reality, they can probably wing it for a week or two, but not much
longer.

This stark dilemma is being repeated with increasing frequency across Silicon
Valley, according to immigration specialists, as companies downsize to weather a
punishing downturn. It's a small number compared with the layoffs of H-1B visa
holders during the dot-com crash. But the downturn has sent a wave of concern
through the community of immigrant workers who hold the visa, which companies
use to hire skilled noncitizens.

Though there is no official tally of visa holders who have been laid off, "It's
happening every day," said San Jose immigration lawyer Indu Liladhar-Hathi.

"If they don't have work, they're in trouble," said Gabriel Jack, also a San
Jose immigration lawyer. "They've got to get out" of the country, he said.
"That's the toughest part about being an H-1B."

The H-1B program was forged in 1990 in a tug-of-war between labor, which has
tried to limit its use in favor of American workers, and business, which would
like to see it expanded beyond the 65,000 visas currently allowed each year. For
American companies it plays at least two roles   as a pool of workers furnished
by contracting firms, and as a means of hiring the smaller number of foreign
students with advanced degrees from American universities. In technology, H-1B
visa holders must have at least a college degree.

A perennially contentious issue, the H-1B visa has drawn fire in recent weeks as
layoffs have multiplied. Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, told Microsoft it should
lay off guest workers before "similarly qualified American employees." Grassley
has co-sponsored legislation to give priority in hiring to American workers.

But Silicon Valley companies have long lobbied for a change in the rules that
force U.S.-educated foreign students to leave if they can't quickly find work.
Workers brought here by labor contracting firms can remain if they're not
working only as long as the contracting firm continues paying them.

Backlash against visa

"It's a sad situation because politicians cannot distinguish a guy with skills
so badly needed in this country from people whose skills are really not needed,"
said Vish Mishra, president of the Silicon Valley networking group The Indus
Entrepreneur. "The entire business community has been talking about it, but this
is something that Congress can't come to grips with."

Mishra says most of those losing jobs have a good shot at landing new ones
because of a shortage of technical personnel, even now. But if they have to
return home, he advises them to "go back proud rather than going back
complaining."

The backlash against the visa has sparked concern in India. "The H-1B route that
brought tens of thousands of Indians to America is facing opposition that may
prove terminal for the program," The Telegraph of India reported last week.

The two out-of-work engineers, Prasad and Jay   who asked that their real names
not be used   came here to study, earned advanced technical degrees from top
American universities and found jobs after graduating.

Prasad, 28, comes from a business family in Manipur and is the only one of his
siblings with a computer science degree. A graduate of the Indian School of
Mines, he came here in 2004 for advanced study, first at Stanford and then at
MIT, where he earned a master's degree in electrical engineering.

He landed a job with a Silicon Valley startup, but the downturn claimed his
position in December. The company kept him on for two months so he could look
for a new one. Now time is running out.

"I just need to find a new job" soon, he said recently. "There's a distinct
possibility that I will have to leave. The downturn has come, companies have
frozen hiring, I'm in the wrong company and I got laid off."

"There's a lot of panic everywhere," said the immigration lawyer representing
Prasad, Jacob Sapochnick of San Diego. "Everybody's worried."

Somber reunion

Prasad says he learned he wasn't alone at a reunion of MIT graduates last week.
"I met a whole bunch of people in the same situation," he said. Last week,
things were looking up for him. A major computer company was close to offering
him a job.

While Prasad was scouring the valley for work, Jay was probably knocking on a
few of the same doors.

Jay, 32, came to Silicon Valley to work in 2005, after obtaining a doctorate
from Cornell in electrical engineering. After four years in the valley, his
green card was in process, his job seemed secure, and then "... The Crunch.

Laid off this month from the solid-state-device company where he had worked for
20 months, Jay consulted San Jose lawyer Liladhar-Hathi.

"I have a very limited time within which to find work before my status becomes
illegal in the United States," Jay said. "In this kind of market, it's too short
a time within which to land a new job," he said.

Late last week, he was still looking. There was some interest from a university
research group, but nothing concrete. A German company might make him an offer
but was still checking its financing to make sure it could afford to hire him.
If he is forced to return to India, Jay said, he will try to find work in the
valley again someday.

Contact Pete Carey at pcarey@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 1, 2009 Wednesday

Fewer applications for H-1B visas expected this year

BYLINE: By John Boudreau Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Technology; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special
Reports; News; Local; Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 880 words


With unemployment skyrocketing across the nation, tech and other companies this
year are expected to request fewer visas for highly skilled foreign workers,
according to industry experts.

But whatever number is requested, the issue of H-1B visas is certain to be
especially controversial in a year when many will ask why, with so many people
unemployed, American companies should hire foreign workers.

In recent years, the annual cap of 85,000 for H-1B visas   including 20,000 for
those with graduate degrees in science, math and engineering   has been exceeded
in just a few days. Today, as the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
starts processing visa petitions for 2010, the torrent of applications may be
smaller.

"The demand is still there, but the rate at which the cap is hit won't be as
quick as it has been in the past," said Bob Sakaniwa, associate director of
advocacy at the American Immigration Lawyers Association. But he said the number
of petitions could nonetheless be large due to pent-up demand.

With millions of Americans out of work, the visa program for foreign workers has
sparked renewed controversy. The federal stimulus law includes provisions making
it difficult for financial companies receiving money from the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, or TARP, to hire H-1B workers.

"It's an easy political target," said Robert Hoffman, a vice president at Oracle
who is also co-chair of Compete America, a coalition of tech companies including
Oracle, Intel, Hewlett-Packard and Google that lobbies for the right to hire
foreign workers.

"The 85,000 H-1B workers represent 0.07 percent of the entire U.S. labor
force,'' Hoffman said. ''You could take all of the new applications for H-1B
visas and put them in the Rose Bowl and you'd still have seats to sell."

Sen. Charles Grassley has criticized tech companies for not protecting jobs of
U.S. citizens over those of foreigners as they layoff thousands of employees at
a clip. The Iowa Republican and Sen. Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, have
said they plan to reintroduce a bill later this year that would require
companies to do everything they can to hire Americans before seeking H-1B visas.

"We hope that this cycle of anger really makes some fundamental changes," said
Lee Conrad, a former IBM worker who is an organizer for the Communications
Workers of America. "When we see such high unemployment rates, Congress really
needs to do something about terminating the H-1B visa program."

The tight job market is also triggering demands for more visa oversight. "We
strongly support urgent reform and proper monitoring of the visa process so
unqualified people can't take jobs that Americans are qualified for," said
Priyanka Joshi, spokeswoman for WashTech, a Seattle-based union for tech
professionals. Though her group does not advocate eliminating H-1B visas, it
believes foreign workers regularly get hired based on fraudulent qualifications.

In recent years, there has been some support from both parties in Congress for
more H-1B visas and green cards for foreign professionals, a major goal of tech
companies that has been caught up in the highly charged debate over immigration.

During the dot-com boom a decade ago, the H-1B visa cap was 195,000 a year, a
reflection of the frenzied hiring of tech workers in Silicon Valley and
elsewhere around the nation. That number dropped dramatically during the
recession that followed.

"Even in this grim economy, there are some jobs in which we don't have enough
people   for example, we still have a nursing shortage," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren,
D-San Jose, who chairs the House subcommittee on immigration.

Nonetheless, she believes the visa program is far from perfect: "There have been
instances I have discovered where people have not been paid as much as they
should have been; where their skill set was average, not excellent; where there
were Americans available to do the same work."

Lofgren does not support piecemeal bills, such as the one planned by Grassley
and Durbin, but wants overarching legislation that covers many issues, including
reforming the H-1B process and making it easier for some foreign professionals
to get green cards. However, many experts think it's unlikely Congress will take
on major immigration reform this year.

But the issue remains high on the list of concerns of Silicon Valley tech
companies. As many as two-thirds of students enrolled in computer science and
engineering programs at U.S. universities are from overseas, said Stuart
Anderson, executive director of the National Foundation for American Policy, a
nonpartisan group that conducts research on trade and immigration.

"You'd have to ignore half to two-thirds of your potential future labor pool to
not hire someone who is a foreign national," he said. "If you do ignore them,
your competition will hire them outside the United States."

Contact John Boudreau at jboudreau@mercurynews.com or 408-278-3496.

H-1B employers

Top companies that applied for H-1B visas in 2008:
Infosys Technologies: 4,559
Wipro: 2,678
Satyam Computer Services: 1,917
Tata Consultancy Services: 1,539
Microsoft: 1,037
Accenture: 731
Cognizant Tech Solutions: 467
Cisco Systems: 422
Larsen & Toubro Infotech: 403
IBM India Private Ltd.: 381
Intel: 351

Source: National Foundation for American Policy

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 8, 2009 Wednesday

Applications down for foreign worker visas

BYLINE: By John Boudreau Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Technology; Special Reports; News; National; Local;
Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 652 words


The economic downturn   and perhaps a push in Washington to protect American
jobs   has turned the annual torrent of H-1B visa applications for foreign
workers into a trickle.

For years, U.S. tech companies have lobbied for more H-1B visas, arguing that
skilled foreign workers were essential to their operations   and snatching up
available visas within a few days of the beginning of the yearly application
period.

But Wednesday, a full week after companies began applying, the U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services reported it had received only enough petitions to use
up roughly half the 2010 allocation of 65,000 visas.

Likewise, applications for 20,000 additional H-1B visas reserved for foreign
graduates of U.S. colleges with at least a master's degree also fell short of
the allocation, though the number of petitions is close to the cap, said U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services spokeswoman Sharon Rummery.

Bob Sakaniwa, associate director of advocacy at the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said the visa program "takes cues from real needs based on the
economic climate. It's like the price of gas: Nobody likes to see it go up, but
it's a sign the economy is hitting on all cylinders."

But those critical of the visa program believe a new tone in Congress, which is
more protective of American jobs during an era of mass layoffs, may also play a
role in the petition slowdown.

New provisions

The federal stimulus law includes provisions making it difficult for financial
companies receiving money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to
hire H-1B workers. Sen. Charles Grassley has criticized tech companies for not
protecting jobs of U.S. citizens over those of foreigners as they lay off
thousands of employees at a clip.

The Iowa Republican and Sen. Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, have said
they plan to reintroduce a bill later this year that would require companies to
do everything they can to hire Americans before seeking H-1B visas.

Priyanka Joshi, spokeswoman for WashTech, a Seattle-based union for tech
professionals, credits the renewed controversy over the program for a pull back
in applications.

"This is a step in the right direction," she said. "Like it or not, we have to
protect American jobs first."

Industry representatives, though, point out that during the dot-com bust, the
number of H-1B petitions also plunged with the tech economy.

'Overall demand'

"We don't see the uncertainty in Congress over immigration or skilled
immigration reform as a factor," said Robert Hoffman, an Oracle vice president
who is also co-chair of Compete America, a coalition of tech companies including
Oracle, Intel, Hewlett-Packard and Google that lobbies for the right to hire
foreign workers. The demand for H-1B visas, he added, "moves in tandem with the
overall demand for workers."

The fact that the category for visas reserved for foreign graduates of U.S.
colleges is close to filling up indicates pent-up demand for some highly skilled
workers, Hoffman said. Many companies already employ many of these foreign
workers under a special temporary status that enables them to work as interns.

"They want to bring these people on board," he said. "It's more of an adjustment
of status than anything else."

The precise number of H-1B applications received in the last week is not
available, and a detailed accounting of how many visas were issued and to which
companies will not be released until all applications are processed.

During the dot-com boom, the number of H-1B visas issued every year was
increased to 195,000. That number was cut back to 65,000 in 2004, though an
additional 20,000 visas were set aside for workers with master's degrees or
higher from U.S. institutions. Ninety-eight percent of those who receive visas
in the first category have at least a bachelor's degree, Rummery said.

Contact John Boudreau at jboudreau@mercurynews.com or 408-278-3496.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday

Walnut Creek real estate agent accused of forcing nanny into indentured
servitude

BYLINE: By Robert Salonga Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Alameda County; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 535 words


A Walnut Creek real estate agent is scheduled to appear in federal court this
afternoon to face accusations that she smuggled a Peruvian nanny into the United
States and for the past two years forced her to live in indentured servitude,
according to U.S. District Court documents.

Mabelle de la Rosa Dann, also known as Mabelle Crabbe, is charged with harboring
an illegal alien for the purpose of private financial gain. Immigration
authorities say the nanny was never paid as promised despite working around the
clock for the defendant, according to a search warrant affidavit filed in June
by a Special Agent Jennifer Alderete of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

The affidavit says that Dann held 30-year-old Zoraida Pena-Canal in virtual
captivity with threats of deportation and criminal accusations if she ever fled
from the Walnut Creek apartment where they resided.

Pena-Canal came to the United States in 2006 after working as a nanny for Dann's
sister in Peru, from where the defendant legally emigrated, the affidavit said.
Dann worked with an acquaintance and with a woman hired specifically to navigate
the U.S. visa process to get Pena-Canal a visitor visa, with the real intent of
keeping her in the United States to work for Dann, according to the affidavit.

Once she was in the country, the promises Dann made to Pena-Canal dissolved.
Instead of a large house, private bed and bath, Pena-Canal was relegated to

sleeping on a living-room sofa and later, the living-room floor of a
900-square-foot apartment, the affidavit said. The nanny was made to work most
of the day caring for Dann's three children and doing the household's cooking,
cleaning and laundry, the affidavit said.

At one point, Dann began rationing Pena-Canal's food, weighing meat she
purchased and keeping a strict count of fruit in the house.

When it came to compensation, the promise of $600 a month, days off and the
opportunity to study English never materialized. Instead, Dann increased the
purported debt Pena-Canal owed to pay for her transport to the United States and
host of other related costs that ballooned to $15,000, the affidavit said.

Dann also withheld the nanny's travel documents, identification and bank cards
and subjected her to routine verbal and physical abuse, the affidavit said. The
document described an exchange in which Dann told Pena-Canal that "when you come
to the United States, you must suffer."

In one alleged anecdote, Alderete wrote that Dann broke Pena-Canal's radio for
fear that listening to Spanish-speaking radio "would put ideas in her head."

The alleged servitude came to light when teachers at Indian Valley Elementary
School in Walnut Creek began seeing Pena-Canal walking Dann's children home from
school. Alderete wrote that staff noticed the nanny was "unkempt" and often wore
the same set of clothes. After several months, Pena-Canal befriended people at
the school, who eventually contacted the nonprofit immigrant aid group La Raza
in San Francisco, which contacted immigration officials.

Dann's court proceeding is scheduled for 2:30 p.m. today in U.S. District Court
in Oakland.

Robert Salonga covers public safety. Reach him at 925-943-8013 or
rsalonga@bayareanewsgroup.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday

The Globalist Quiz

BYLINE: TheGlobalist.com

SECTION: NEWS; National; World

LENGTH: 449 words


THE GLOBALIST QUIZ

Immigration nations

The weekly quiz is provided by The Globalist, a daily online feature service
that covers issues and trends in globalization. The nonpartisan organization
provides commercial services and nonprofit educational features.

QUESTION

The highest proportions of foreign-born residents in a population are found
among the Arab countries in the Persian Gulf, such as the United Arab Emirates
at 71% and Kuwait at 62%. We wonder: Of the following countries with
traditionally high immigration levels, which one has the highest proportion of
foreign-born residents in its population?

ANSWER

A. United States

B. New Zealand

C. Canada

D. Australia

A.

United States is not correct.

The current proportion of foreign-born residents in the U.S. population is 13%.
In comparison, back in 1970 only about 5% of U.S. residents were immigrants, a
share that increased to 6% in 1980 and 8% in 1990. Since 2000, roughly 10
million immigrants have arrived in the United States  more than half of whom
(5.6 million) are estimated to be illegal immigrants. The United States' current
share of foreign-born is slightly lower than the high of nearly 15% reached in
the late 1890s and early 1900s. Given recent trends, this historic peak may be
surpassed in the next few years.

B.

New Zealand is not correct.

New Zealand's foreign-born account for 16% of the total population. The top
three source countries for immigrants are the United Kingdom, Australia and
Samoa. New Zealand has an immigrant share similar to that of Austria and Ukraine
(both at 15%)   but significantly lower than Switzerland's (23%). In Europe as a
whole, the proportion of foreign-born has increased sizably. It stood at just 3%
in 1960   compared with about 9% today. Indeed, by 2015, immigration will be the
only source of population growth in the European Union.

C.

Canada is not correct.

Considerably higher than that of the United States, Canada's proportion of
foreign-born is 20%. While comparatively high for developed nations, this figure
remains less than the peak figure of 22% foreign-born, which was reached in the
1930s. As in Europe, Canada's population growth is becoming increasingly
dependent on immigration. From 2001 to 2006, two-thirds of the country's
population increase was due to immigration   and by roughly 2030, immigration is
expected to be the only source of population growth in Canada.

D.

Australia is correct.

The proportion of foreign-born in Australia is 22%, unchanged since 1996   one
of the highest rates among the world's major industrialized countries.
Immigration has also been a significant factor in Australia's population growth,
contributing to about 56% of the country's growth in 2007.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               48 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 7, 2008 Sunday

Ruben Navarrette Jr.: McCain aide says campaign blunted Hispanic outreach

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 760 words


SAN DIEGO   Members of the cultural right have called Juan Hernandez a "border
obliteration activist," an "American traitor," and an "agent of the Mexican
government."

John McCain's presidential campaign called him something different: director of
Hispanic outreach. For 14 months leading up to the election, the Fort Worth
native was a high-level volunteer at McCain '08 headquarters, where he attended
daily senior staff meetings and advised the Arizona senator and his top
lieutenants about how to appeal to Hispanic voters.

Part of that strategy was highlighting McCain's record of championing
comprehensive immigration reform. Meanwhile, down the hall, another portion of
the campaign was hard at work trying to make McCain more palatable to the
Republican mainstream by de-emphasizing his record of championing comprehensive
immigration reform.

Brilliant.

"I remember a conference call with GOP leaders from Nevada, after McCain had
become the nominee," Hernandez told me recently. "I heard them telling McCain on
the conference call, 'Well, we still need some reassurance that you are
conservative enough.' I mean, he's already the candidate, and they still want
assurances? What are they going to do?"

Hernandez recalled that there were "hundreds of calls" during the primary
campaign from local GOP officials asking that McCain come out and state that he
was against immigration reform.

This isn't the kind of environment where you would expect to find someone like
Hernandez. Or would you? A former professor of U.S.-Mexico studies at the
University of Texas-Dallas, he's a guy who always seems to be in the right place
at the right time, rubbing elbows with the right people. In the late 1990s,
Hernandez crossed paths with both George W. Bush, then the governor of Texas,
and Vicente Fox, then the governor of the Mexican state of Guanajuato. He
thought the rancher-politicians would hit it off, so he introduced them. Later,
Hernandez, who holds dual citizenship, served in Fox's Cabinet as the director
of the Office of Mexicans Abroad, a sort of ambassador to Mexican expatriates in
the United States.

Not surprisingly, Hernandez has sharp insights into the complex relationship
between the two countries. It doesn't hurt that, with a father who was born in
Mexico and a mother who was born in the United States, Hernandez has affection
for both sides of the border.

For what some see as his divided loyalties, he has taken his share of criticism.
Personally, I think this is one of the things that drew McCain to him. As with
Sen. Joe Lieberman or Sen. Lindsey Graham, McCain finds kinship with those who
have weathered the storm and still stick to their principles.

Hernandez said he met McCain through Fox in 2001, and that their paths kept
crossing. After leaving the Mexican government, Hernandez was a senior fellow at
the Reform Institute, a think tank that McCain helped start to find
middle-ground solutions to pressing issues including immigration.

In August 2007, Hernandez accompanied a friend to McCain's campaign headquarters
where he was roped into a staff meeting and asked how the candidate could take
the support he had always enjoyed with Hispanics and extend it nationwide.
Within hours, Hernandez was invited to join the campaign.

That was the easy part. Things didn't always go as planned. At times, Hernandez
said, McCain or some senior staff member would give an order to reach out to
Hispanics, only to have it fall through the cracks and never happen. Not
everyone, it seems, bought into the importance of Hispanic outreach. At one
point, in the spring, Hernandez went to see McCain and tried to quit.

"I was very frustrated," he said. "So I went up to him and told him, 'Thank you
very much for allowing me to participate. It's been a great honor. But I can't
go on.'

"And to my surprise, he embraced me. And he wouldn't stop embracing me. He said,
'Juan, you have no idea how important it is to me for you to be on this
campaign. They keep doing this to me in so many areas.'"

Then, Hernandez said, someone came along and swept McCain away to another
meeting. Hernandez decided to stay with the campaign until the final curtain.

What did McCain mean, "They keep doing this to me"? I think it's obvious. He was
talking about how some Republicans wanted to make him into something he wasn't.
They should have let McCain be McCain. Which is what Juan Hernandez spent months
trying to get them to do.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.


Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               49 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 6, 2009 Tuesday

Beacon of Light Awards presented

BYLINE: By Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 133 words


The Santa Clara County Office of Human Relations recently presented five Beacon
of Light Awards to individuals and groups that have helped immigrant communities
and society. Receiving awards were the Silicon Valley Community Foundation;
Opportunity Fund; Karla Reyes; Familias Unidas Theater; and Phaivanh Khowong.
The foundation adopted funding guidelines that include investing in "immigrant
integration" strategies. Opportunity Fund created a $2 million matching fund to
help immigrants save money for citizenship application fees. Reyes helped
develop an outreach advocacy program at Evergreen Valley College. Familias
Unidas Theatre has provided a sanctuary for immigrant women to openly share
their personal stories. Khowong, who escaped from Laos in 1975, cofounded the
county refugee program.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 11, 2009 Wednesday

Thomas L. Friedman: Why put up barriers to brainpower?

BYLINE: By Thomas L. Friedman

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 686 words


BANGALORE, India   Leave it to a brainy Indian to come up with the cheapest and
surest way to stimulate our economy: immigration.

"All you need to do is grant visas to 2 million Indians, Chinese and Koreans,"
said Shekhar Gupta, editor of The Indian Express newspaper. "We will buy up all
the subprime homes. We will work 18 hours a day to pay for them. We will
immediately improve your savings rate   no Indian bank today has more than 2
percent nonperforming loans, because not paying your mortgage is considered
shameful here. And we will start new companies to create our own jobs and jobs
for more Americans."

Remember, America

While his tongue was slightly in cheek, Gupta and many other Indian business
people I spoke to this week were trying to make a point that sometimes
non-Americans can make best: "Dear America, please remember how you got to be
the wealthiest country in history. It wasn't through protectionism, or
state-owned banks or fearing free trade. No, the formula was very simple: Build
this really flexible, really open economy, tolerate creative destruction so dead
capital is quickly redeployed to better ideas and companies, pour into it the
most diverse, smart and energetic immigrants from every corner of the world and
then stir and repeat, stir and repeat."

While I think President Barack Obama has been doing his best to keep the worst
protectionist impulses in Congress out of his stimulus plan, the U.S. Senate
unfortunately voted Feb. 6 to restrict banks and other financial institutions
that receive taxpayer bailout money from hiring high-skilled immigrants on
temporary work permits known as H-1B visas.

Bad signal. In an age when attracting the first-round intellectual draft choices
from around the world is the most important competitive advantage that a
knowledge economy can have, why would we add barriers against such brainpower
anywhere? That's called "Old Europe." That's spelled: S-T-U-P-I-D.

"If you do this, it will be one of the best things for India and one of the
worst for Americans, (because) Indians will be forced to innovate at home," said
Subhash B. Dhar, a member of the executive council that runs Infosys, the
well-known Indian technology company that sends Indian workers to America to
support a wide range of firms.

If there is one thing we know for absolute certain, it's this: Protectionism did
not cause the Great Depression, but it sure helped to make it "Great." From 1929
to 1934, world trade plunged by more than 60 percent   and we were all worse
off.

We live in a technological age where every study shows that the more knowledge
you have as a worker and the more knowledge workers you have as an economy, the
faster your incomes will rise. Therefore, the centerpiece of our stimulus, the
core driving principle, should be to stimulate everything that makes us smarter
and attracts more smart people to our shores. That is the best way to create
good jobs.

Valley startups

According to research by Vivek Wadhwa, a senior research associate at the Labor
and Worklife Program at Harvard Law School, more than half of Silicon Valley
startups were founded by immigrants over the last decade. These
immigrant-founded tech companies employed 450,000 workers and had sales of $52
billion in 2005, Wadhwa said in an essay this week on BusinessWeek.com .

We don't want to come out of this crisis with just inflation, a mountain of debt
and more shovel-ready jobs. We want to   we have to   come out of it with a new
Intel, Google, Microsoft and Apple.

I would have loved to have seen the stimulus package include a government-funded
venture capital bank to help finance all the startups that are clearly not
starting up today because of a lack of liquidity from traditional lending
sources.

Newsweek had an essay this week that began: "Could Silicon Valley become another
Detroit?" Well, yes, it could. When the best brains in the world are on sale,
you don't shut them out. We need to attack this financial crisis with green
cards not just greenbacks, and with startups, not just bailouts. One Detroit is
enough.


Thomas L. Friedman is a New York Times columnist.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               51 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 2, 2009 Monday

Immigrant Chinese, Indian tech workers increasingly return home

BYLINE: By Pete Carey Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 649 words


The U.S. economic magnet is losing some of its power to retain skilled
immigrants from China and India, many of whom have come to Silicon Valley to
study and work, according to a survey released today of more than a thousand
returnees.

A powerful combination of career, family, culture and rapidly growing economies
in their home countries is drawing them back, threatening U.S. supremacy in an
increasingly competitive global environment.

The poll of 1,203 returnees to India and China by researchers at Duke and
Harvard universities and the University of California also found the returnees
thriving in their new jobs. Many rose through the ranks to senior management,
with the number in high positions three to four times the number who held senior
positions with their U.S. employers. About half said they planned to start a
company in the next five years.

"Having worked in the U.S., they have skills that make them more valuable back
home," said the study's principal author, Vivek Wadwha, a researcher on
immigration and labor issues at Duke and Harvard. "They go back home and live
like kings."

The study's authors say it illustrates the need for the United States to do more
to retain its skilled immigrants in the face of growing global competition, for
example by increasing the number of permanent residency slots for them in
science, technology, engineering and math.

The study has particular resonance for Silicon Valley, where a large portion of
Indian and Chinese immigrants have come to universities here and settled to work
in high tech.

Vish Mishra, president of The Indus Entrepreneurs group, a Silicon Valley-based
organization for tech executives with roots in the Indus region, said those he
sees leaving are 35 to 45 years old, have families and aging parents in their
home countries, and decide to take a shot at a job in their growing home
economies. "But they maintain contacts in the valley," he said. "They are
building bridges as opposed to burning any bridges, and this is helping both the
countries."

In fact, nearly 40 percent of the Indians and 53.8 percent of the Chinese said
they'd seriously consider an offer to return to an equivalent job in the United
States.

Lacking comprehensive data on all returnees, researchers used the professional
networking site LinkedIn to gather data, achieving a 90 percent response rate
from those surveyed.

Respondents were divided 50-50 between Chinese and Indians. Most were married
men in their early 30s who had returned home in the previous five years. Half
the Chinese held master's degrees and 40 percent had doctorates. Two-thirds of
the Indians had master's degrees and 12 percent had doctorates.

Almost half of the Chinese and 57 percent of the Indians said better pay was a
factor in going home, a response related to the lower cost of living, since many
said gross compensation was better in the United States.

"The key policy implications of the study is that America loses big-time by not
having a steady flow, in fact an increased flow, of highly skilled immigrants,"
said Robert Litman, vice president for research of the Kauffman Foundation of
Kansas City, which underwrote the study.

Wadwha added that "we're shooting ourselves in the foot (by) taking our economic
recovery   which is our most skilled people   and shipping 'em off to India and
China."

Contact Pete Carey at pcarey@mercurynews.com


     ·    Demand for their skills, cited by 86.8% of Chinese and 79% of Indians.
          Better career opportunities, listed by 68.7% of Indians and 84% of
          Chinese. Better pay relative to the standard of living, by 57.1% of
          Chinese and 49.6% of Indians. Family considerations were important to
          large majorities of both groups. They"re unlikely to return " 47.8% of
          Chinese and 46% of Indians said so. But 39.8 percent of Indians and
          53.8% of Chinese said they"d seriously consider a U.S. job offer.


Source: America"s Loss Is the World"s Gain

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               52 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday

Grants to Silicon Valley groups expand legal services resources for immigrants

BYLINE: By Allecia Vermillion Bay City News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 574 words


The Silicon Valley Community Foundation is awarding a series of grants it says
will produce more consultations and shorter waiting times for low-income
immigrants in need of legal services in San Mateo and Santa Clara counties.

The foundation will award nearly $1.4 million to eight legal services groups and
12 cultural communication programs as part of its campaign to integrate the
region's burgeoning immigrant population.

Manuel Santamaria, grant-making administrator for the Silicon Valley Community
Foundation, said the awards reflect the organization's belief that empowering
the growing foreign-born population is critical to the region's long-term
success.

"Silicon Valley, including San Mateo and Santa Clara counties, is really a
microcosm of immigrants," he said. "How do we work together to create a new
paradigm of social justice?"

Legal services and community cultural programs form two parts of the
organization's three-pronged immigration approach, he said. The foundation will
seek proposals for its third focus, adult English language skills, in May.

When the Peninsula Community Foundation and the Community Foundation of Silicon
Valley merged in 2006 to form the Silicon Valley Community Foundation, staff set
about determining a new set of priorities that unified both organizations,
Santamaria said.

Through conversations with local groups, the foundation discovered that Silicon
Valley's legal aid resources were overwhelmed after the last large-scale
immigration reform, back in 1986. While a proposed federal overhaul stalled in
Congress in 2007, Santamaria said the region should be prepared when President
Barack Obama's administration moves on this issue. Currently, the region's need
for legal aid far outpaces the existing resources, Santamaria said.

Collaborative Resources for Immigrant Services on the Peninsula, or CRISP,
received $250,000, the largest of the grants. This money will expand the aid the
organization can give to immigrant children and their families.

Other groups, including the International Institute of the Bay Area and the
International Rescue Committee of San Jose, received smaller grants to add
caseworkers that are accredited by the federal Board of Immigration Appeals.

Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County received two grants, totaling more than
$174,000. These funds will help expand legal aid in its centers in San Jose and
Gilroy, training and accrediting two more immigration specialists, as well as
planning for a collaborative group of local immigration service providers.

The non-legal aid grants, totaling $630,000 of the $1.4 million, are intended to
deepen the public's understanding of its immigrant communities and help bridge
the gap between these individuals and public policy makers, Santamaria said.

These include $60,000 to the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office to establish
community partnerships in Redwood City's North Fair Oaks neighborhood, and
$75,000 to Asian American Recovery Services in Santa Clara to support Vietnamese
integration programs using theater and media campaigns.

The foundation selected the grant recipients from a total of nearly 70
proposals. Santamaria said his team was looking for organizations they believe
will be operating in the community for years to come, as well as groups
"providing some niche services to niche communities" that could benefit from
additional funds.

"We're invested in these strategies for the long haul," Santamaria said.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 14, 2009 Saturday

A trip into Angel Island's past

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area Newspaper Group

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1455 words


Don Lee was 11 years old and recovering from seasickness when the SS President
Coolidge anchored in San Francisco Bay in the summer of 1939. He had spent weeks
in the luxury liner's steerage on the voyage from Hong Kong, struggling to sleep
beside the rumbling of the ship's engine.

Forum: Post your Angel Island history »

His journey would soon take a frightening detour.

Immigration officials boarded the Coolidge, separated Lee from his grandfather
and ferried the boy and several dozen other immigrants to Angel Island. Here, he
was detained in a bunk room behind barbed wire, with frequent interruptions for
interrogations about his family lineage and his tiny village in southern China.

"They asked me where did I live, and then they have a diagram of the house.
Who's the closest neighbor? Who are your relatives?" recalled Lee, now 81, on a
tour of the newly renovated Angel Island Immigration Station, a
multimillion-dollar project. "It's designed to trip you up. The whole aim of the
immigration system there was to reject. Instead of Ellis Island, which was to
welcome you, it was really designed to discourage you."

Now, for the first time in more than three years, the public can catch a glimpse
of what life was like for Lee and tens of thousands of Chinese, Japanese, Indian
and other immigrants from Asia who passed through the Angel Island station from
1910 through the early 1940s.

Much has been lost: The administration building is gone, burned down along with
most of its records in a 1940 fire. A row of staff cottages designed by
architect Julia Morgan was destroyed long ago in a training exercise for Marin
County firefighters. One of the four original palm trees died, and the old pier
can't accept new boats.

But after this major renovation on the surviving detention barracks, park
officials say they hope they have created a new and improved window into
California's immigration history.

Oakland-based museum designer Daniel Quan helped chart the years-long project to
turn the immigration station into a more effective and accessible learning tool.

"You start to paint a picture, much in the same way you might put a film
together," Quan said. "You're trying to tell a story."

Like many Chinese immigrants who passed through Angel Island, Quan's father
never told his children about his time there as a 13-year-old. After his death,
Quan found his father's name, and records of his three-week detention, in
government rolls.

The father never looked back at an experience seen as a stigma, spending a short
time in school before going to work as a butcher's apprentice and beginning a
new life.

Lee, who now lives in Concord, told a similar story.

On Angel Island, he would spend nights in a room full of bunks that was tucked
into the slope of a wooded hill and surrounded by barbed wire. In the daytime,
he said, the bright ceiling lights shone a harsh glow on the gloom that
surrounded him, while illuminating the remnants of poems inscribed on the walls
decades earlier.

He played with wooden blocks he brought with him on the voyage, or he took rare
opportunities to breathe fresh air in a tiny, fenced-in outdoor recreation spot.

His detention lasted about three weeks, and then he settled into American life
so different from his tiny village in southern China. He would grow to enjoy the
United States, learning English in its public schools, obtaining an engineering
degree from the University of California-Berkeley, serving in the Army and
raising a family here.

In the years after the Gold Rush and a demand for railroad labor sparked a huge
wave of mid-19th-century Chinese immigration, race-tinged fears about job
competition and assimilation fueled a growing anti-Chinese movement in state and
federal politics and newspapers. Congress passed a law in 1882 to prohibit any
more Chinese laborers.

That same year, a record 40,000 Chinese immigrants entered the United States as
part of a rush to beat the ban before it took effect. By the late 1880s, the
number of Chinese immigrants entering the country each year dropped to the
double and triple digits. It would be another century, in the early 1980s,
before annual Chinese immigration came close to and eventually surpassed the
numbers reached before 1883.

Angel Island was not the first Bay Area facility designed to restrict Asian
immigration, according to Robert Barde, the author of "Immigration at the Golden
Gate" and deputy director of the Institute of Business and Economic Research at
UC-Berkeley. But it has become a vivid symbol of a 60-year era of exclusion
because it is the only place where the buildings have survived.

Immigrants from Europe and elsewhere traveled through the island in smaller
numbers, but their visits were typically much shorter and they slept and ate in
separate sections.

Before the station's 1910 opening, detained immigrants were held in a cramped
facility along the city's wharf, or sometimes in a floating prison of available
merchant ships docked at the shore. The new island facility was at first seen as
a major improvement, but was soon found to be a fire trap, with poor
ventilation, terrible bathrooms, a lack of fresh water and intractable problems
of bureaucratic graft.

Bard said that for today's Angel Island visitor, soaking in the bay views, "it
doesn't seem like such a bad place. But you know that in the afternoon, you're
going to leave. For a lot of people, they had no idea how long they were going
to be there. I think that's what really weighed on people."

Despite significant hurdles, most of those who landed on Angel Island were able
to stay in the country, Quan said. Those ordered deported appealed the rulings,
and many appeals were eventually accepted. Government documents researched by
Bard document how one Chinese woman, whose "alleged husband" was a legal
immigrant, was detained for more than 600 days before the government finally let
her free in San Francisco.

"There was no great calamity that happened as a result of these people
immigrating," Quan said. "There was no real reason to go to those extremes."

State park officials say they hope the improved museum, when it becomes ready to
again accommodate school, self-guided and group trips this spring, sparks
interest from Bay Area residents, including descendants of the many immigrants
who passed through the "Guardian of the Golden Gate."

Berkeley resident Buck Gee, a retired engineer, said that after his father's
death, his family discovered a "cheat book" the immigrant had brought with him
on the voyage to San Francisco. It was a sign that the father was most likely a
"paper son," one who memorized invented details about his heritage so he could
circumvent exclusionary laws. Like the Quan family, the Gees never discussed the
island.

"There was shame, I think, some fear," Gee said. "The Chinese who came through
Angel Island, they just wanted to bury it."

Gee helped lead a private tour of the state park last month for fellow members
of the Silicon Valley-based Asia America MultiTechnology Association. Elizabeth
Xu, making her first visit to the island with her husband and two young sons,
was struck by the sorrow, but also by the literary skill reflected in the poems
she read on the walls.

"He says it looks very pretty here but it's a cage for him," Xu said,
interpreting one Chinese detainee's poem. "He felt that even though he's a very
capable person, he couldn't do anything about the situation. He felt hopeless."

For most of her American life, Xu said she did not think twice about the Chinese
immigrants who arrived decades ago. With few complications, she arrived from
Beijing as an immigrant in 1990.

"It makes me really appreciate the generations before us," she said.

TOURING ON ANGEL ISLAND

Getting there: The Blue & Gold Fleet offers ferry service year-round from San
Francisco; on summer weekends there is added service from Oakland and Alameda.
Ferry schedules don"t always mesh with island tour schedules, so allow yourself
plenty of time.
Touring on your own: The grounds of Angel Island State Park are open from 8 a.m.
to sunset, Wednesday-Sunday. There is no guaranteed entry into the newly
refurbished detention barracks; those tours are generally by reservation only,
although visitors may tour the building if there is staff on duty on the first
floor.
Group tours: The new tours of the detention barracks have been wildly popular,
especially with school groups. All weekday tours through the end of May are
booked. However, weekend tours still have openings from April through October.
Individuals or small groups may purchase tickets ($7 general admission) on a
first-come, first-served basis at the Cove Cafe on the island. Groups of 10 or
more should e-mail www.angelisland.org.

" Mercury News

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A view of the detention barracks at the Angel Island Immigration
Station is shown on Saturday, Jan. 31, 2009, on Angel Island, Calif. The station
will have it's grand re-opening on Feb. 15. (Jane Tyska/Staff)
Passengers head out to Angel Island from Tiburon on Saturday, Jan. 31, 2009, in
San Francisco Bay, California. The Angel Island Immigration Station will have
it's grand re-opening on Feb. 15. (Jane Tyska/Staff)
Angel Island State Park Superintendent Dave Matthews, right, gives a tour of the
Angel Island Immigration Station on Saturday, Jan. 31, 2009, on Angel Island,
Calif. The station will have it's grand re-opening on Feb. 15. (Jane
Tyska/Staff)
A view of the bathroom in the detention barracks of the Angel Island Immigration
Station is shown on Saturday, Jan. 31, 2009, on Angel Island, Calif. The station
will have it's grand re-opening on Feb. 15. (Jane Tyska/Staff)
A view of the former dock at the Angel Island Immigration Station is shown on
Saturday, Jan. 31, 2009, on Angel Island, Calif. The station will have it's
grand re-opening on Feb. 15. (Jane Tyska/Staff)
A view of the Chinese men's quarters in the detention barracks of the Angel
Island Immigration Station is shown on Saturday, Jan. 31, 2009, on Angel Island,
Calif. The station will have it's grand re-opening on Feb. 15. (Jane
Tyska/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 17, 2009 Tuesday

Immigrant groups, Santa Clara County to hold Citizenship Day on Saturday

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; State; Local

LENGTH: 566 words


Over the past 13 years, the Santa Clara County Citizenship Collaborative has
helped more than 120,000 people through the lengthy and often byzantine
naturalization process to become American citizens.

But this year, selling the idea of citizenship might face its biggest hurdle.

The problem: Citizenship applications now cost a lot of money, while many
low-income immigrants are hurting because the economy is in the tank.

"We realize that paying the rent must come first and food is second," and that
paying a $675 fee to the federal government might be unaffordable, said Teresa
Castellanos, interim director of the Santa Clara County Office of Human
Relations.

When the county held its first Citizenship Day in 1996, the fee was $95. But the
government has regularly hiked the fee to recapture much of the cost of
processing citizenship applications.

So Castellanos' office and a host of nonprofit groups are encouraging immigrants
to show up at Saturday's Citizenship & Immigrant Pride Day to at least start
thinking about becoming a citizen, even if they decide not to apply for
citizenship just yet.

"Just come out and get the information," said Basil Robledo of the Services,
Immigrant Rights and Education Network in San Jose.

According to a national group called Grantmakers Concerned with Immigrants and
Refugees, approximately 190,000 Santa Clara County residents are eligible to
naturalize but have not done so.

At a news conference Tuesday morning in front of the Center for Employment
Training in San Jose, where one of Saturday's citizenship events will be held,
some speakers encouraged legal permanent residents to take the next step.

"If you're a green-card holder, I ask you to become a citizen," said Calvin
Nguyen, 34, who fled Vietnam in a rickety boat in 1981. "Some of you say you
want freedom. But how can you protect freedom if you cannot vote?"

There is one bit of good news this year: There's a new program that gives
"scholarships" so low-income people can afford application fees.

If aspiring citizens save $225 over four to 12 months, the San Jose-based
Opportunity Fund will pick up the rest of the tab   $450.

The timing is fortuitous, said Angelita Hernandez, the Opportunity Fund's
outreach coordinator for the new program, funded by a $1.85 million grant from
the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation.

About 20 people have applied for the program, but the group has enough funding
for 500 grants.

To be eligible, immigrants must make 60 percent or less of the area's median
income. For a family of four, that's $63,675 a year.

If you're interested See www.opportunityfund.org/ida for more information on the
grant program.

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5552.

CITIZENSHIP ORIENTATIONS

Saturday"s Citizenship & Immigrant Pride Day events will run from 8:45 a.m. to
1:30 p.m. Language-specific orientation sessions are as follows:

SAN JOSE

Center for Employment Training, 701 Vine St.
English: 9 a.m., 10:45 a.m., 1:15 p.m.
Amharic: 10:30 a.m.
Cambodian: 9 a.m.
Cantonese: 9 a.m.
Mandarin: 1:15 p.m.
Farsi: 10:15 a.m.
Hindi: 1:15 p.m.
Punjabi: 9 a.m.
Korean: 10:30 a.m.
Lao: 10:30 a.m.
Russian: 1:15 p.m.
Tagalog: 1:15 p.m.
Spanish: 9 a.m., 10:45 a.m., 1:30 p.m.
Vietnamese: 8:45 a.m., 10:30 a.m., 1:15 p.m.

GILROY

Rebekah Children"s Services, 290 I.O.O.F. Ave., Gilroy.
English: Noon
Spanish: 10 a.m., 11 a.m.

Source: Santa Clara County Citizenship Collaborative

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               55 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 29, 2009 Sunday

Binational, same-sex couples face immigration problems

BYLINE: By Mike Swift Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 1521 words


Shirley Tan's calm and happy life   San Mateo County housewife, mother of twin
12-year-old boys, singing in the church choir   blew up at 6:30 a.m. on Jan. 28,
with a knock on the front door.

Within minutes, the immigration agent standing there had the 43-year-old Tan in
handcuffs. She is scheduled to be deported to her native Philippines on Friday.

If Jay Mercado, Tan's partner of 23 years and the mother of her sons, were a
different gender, it's highly unlikely that knock ever would have come. As a
U.S. citizen, Mercado could have sponsored a wedded spouse for legal permanent
residency. But although Mercado and Tan married in San Francisco in 2004,
federal law limits the definition of marriage to a man and a woman, and same-sex
partners of U.S. citizens don't have a route to legal permanent residence
extended to straight married couples.

It might be too late for Tan and Mercado, but on behalf of thousands of similar
same-sex couples, Congress is considering changing federal law to allow same-sex
"permanent partners" the same immigration rights as opposite-sex married
couples. U.S. Rep. Jackie Speier, D-San Mateo, who called Tan's situation
"unacceptable," is among a group in Congress, including Democratic Sen. Barbara
Boxer, who hope to change immigration law to mirror many countries in Europe
that allow gays and lesbians to sponsor a same-sex partner for legal residency.

"I support gay marriage, but that's not the question here," said U.S. Rep.
Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat from New York City leading the push for legislation
to also allow same-sex couples access to permanent resident status. "The law
shouldn't be gratuitously cruel "...That's what this does   it's a gratuitous
cruelty to keep making partners choose between their countries and their
partners."

Mercado and Tan, who first appealed for political asylum for Tan in 1995 and
thought their case was still pending, said they were completely unaware a
deportation order had been issued in 2002. If Tan is deported this week, they
will have to decide between separating two sons from one of their mothers, or
moving the family to a country they have never known.

"It's hard when they are breaking up families," said a tearful Mercado, as she
sat next to Tan in the house the couple owns overlooking the Pacific Ocean. "Why
can't they just leave us alone? Just because I am not a man, that I cannot
petition her (for a green card), they are punishing us."

"The thing is," Tan said, "it's not only me who they are punishing. It is mainly
my kids, because they are innocent. They are the ones suffering."

Cultural limbo

The federal Defense of Marriage Act, which limits marriage to a man and a woman,
means gay couples in states that allow gay marriage, civil unions or domestic
partnerships have no legal status for the purpose of international travel or
immigration.

Some argue that extending immigration rights to same-sex partners would increase
the risk of fraud and further tangle the nation's already controversial
immigration system.

"It's always a bad idea to let the culture wars be played out in our immigration
policy," said Steven A. Camarota, director of research for the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank that favors curbs on immigration.

With no way to obtain legal permanent residence, many gay couples exhaust years
of temporary U.S. student or work visas. But ultimately, as with Los Angeles
filmmaker Michelle Paymar and her French partner Veronique Martinaud, there
comes a day of reckoning.

Paymar, 51, said an attorney bluntly told them: 'You can stay in the United
States and fight this year by year, or you could apply to emigrate to Canada,
and you can get on with your lives.' "

Paymar and Martinaud moved to Canada last year. Yet, many who leave the U.S.
never feel comfortable with their decision.

Many Californians keep their 415, 310, or 408 area codes, which ring in foreign
living rooms. Some still watch the Bay Area 10 o'clock news on satellite or
cable TV. They have organized expatriate clubs that meet in cafes in Vancouver
and Amsterdam, where they might gather to watch Election Night coverage, or just
share tips for finding a good doctor in their new country. Watching from afar,
many were stunned by the passage of Proposition 8, even though it didn't affect
their immigration status.

They worry about aging parents back home. They struggle to relaunch careers in a
new country. And they bridle when U.S. immigration officers won't recognize a
spouse they legally married abroad, because in America, they aren't really
married.

Some, like Martha McDevitt-Pugh, a former Silicon Valley software manager who
fell in love with a Dutch citizen a decade ago and ultimately moved to the
Netherlands, would be on the first flight home if they could. Even though she
moved to a country where she speaks the language, and where her marriage
entitles her to work legally and obtain citizenship, she still deeply misses her
mother, two brothers, a sister, nieces and nephews, who live in Silicon Valley
now an 11-hour plane ride away.

And she misses her native California, and high tech's work culture. "I landed
there, and thought, 'This should feel great,' " McDevitt-Pugh said of Holland.
"And it didn't feel great at all."

Even visiting the U.S. can be stressful for same-sex binational couples.

When McDevitt-Pugh flew into the Bay Area from Amsterdam with her wife, Lin, she
was nervous about her documents bearing their hyphenated married name. Her legal
marriage in the Netherlands does not exist in the eyes of U.S. law.

"It's the U.S. government that won't recognize my marriage," said McDevitt-Pugh,
relieved after successfully clearing customs on a visit this week to celebrate
her mother's 80th birthday. "It's still my name."

Others say they have traveled such emotional distance that even if same-sex
marriage were legalized, they wouldn't come back.

"That phrase 'liberty and justice for all' ''? That's an empty promise for
people like us," said ex-San Franciscan Tim Sally, who moved to Canada in 2007
with his German partner of 18 years, Bernd Vey.

Now living in Vancouver, the men will become Canadian citizens next year.

"I was angry and somewhat bitter about having to make this choice," Sally said.
"But sometimes fate deals you a different hand than what you were expecting, and
it ends up being a kick in the pants that moves you to a different level in your
life."

Not settled

If choosing between a partner and your country is difficult, children make the
choices even more agonizing.

It's unclear whether Tan can avert deportation. At this point in the process, it
may require an act of Congress. Tan fears for her safety in the Philippines   as
a girl, a relative who wanted her inheritance murdered her mother and a sister
and shot Tan in the head.

Tan and Mercado are both the legal parents of their boys, who are citizens. Tan
gave birth to the twins, who were conceived with eggs from Mercado, a
naturalized citizen born in the Philippines.

The couple said their bid for political asylum was rejected because the threat
came from a relative instead of a government. They appealed in federal court,
and their former lawyer told them   for years   that the case was still pending.

"Always," Tan said, "we keep in our head that I am legal."

That lawyer, according to the couple and their current lawyer, never told Tan
that her application had been rejected in 2002   throwing her into illegal
status.

"We have a person who has never committed a crime, who believed her case was
winding its way through the courts," said Phyllis Beech, the couple's new
lawyer. "And all of a sudden, she wakes up to the pounding at the front door."

Beech said the law is the villain. If Tan and Mercado were not gay, "none of
this happens," because Mercado could have petitioned for permanent legal status
for Tan. A spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security declined
immediate comment on the case.

Tan would be banned from the U.S. for 10 years if she is deported. If that
happens, Mercado is prepared to leave her job and their home in the Bay Area to
keep the family together in the Philippines.

"The main priority is to keep us all together," Mercado said. "We fought our
families for our relationship. We are both from very close Catholic families. We
stood up for our lives and now, just because of this we will be separated?"

Tan said whatever happens, she cannot live without her sons.

"They are my life now," she said. "I cannot be apart from them."

Contact Mike Swift at (408) 271-3648 or at mswift@mercurynews.com

A study by the Williams Institute at the UCLA law school estimated there are
about 36,000 binational couples living together in the United States, with
nearly 30 percent of those couples in California. Much of Western Europe, along
with Israel, South Africa and New Zealand, provides some form of "permanent
partner" immigration status for same-sex couples.

Infobox1

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: During a visit to the United States Lin and wife Martha McDevitt-Pugh
(not pictured), meet with a group called "The Love Exiles," to strategize
getting laws passed in order to be allowed to live with their foreign born same
sex couple in the United States. They are among the many couples comprised of an
American and a non-American married and living abroad because they're unable to
get legal status for their husband or wife. Thy live in Amsterdam, where their
marriage is recognized. They have to travel to the United states several times a
year to visit Martha's aging mother and visit her family. (Photo by Maria J.
Avila Photography/Mercury News)
Shirley Tan and her twelve-year-old son Jashley Mercado solicit help from their
Rev. Piers Lahey at the Church of the Good Shepherd in Pacifica on Saturday
March 28, 2008. Tan, the mother of two boys, is scheduled to be deported to the
Phillipines on Friday April 3.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               56 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 7, 2009 Tuesday

Opinion: Mexico's drug war impacts immigrants living in U.S.

BYLINE: By Gregory Rodriguez

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 883 words


Mexico's drug war is bound to have a profound effect on the lives of Mexican
immigrants in the United States.

On the one hand, the image of Mexico's chaos as a spreading contagion most
likely will strengthen the hand of anti-immigrant forces. On the other, as
Mexican newcomers look back at their increasingly dangerous homeland, they will
consciously or unconsciously   set down deeper roots in the United States.

The Los Angeles Times routinely publishes an astounding statistic: During the
last 15 months in Mexico, as the government has cracked down on drug cartels,
7,000 Mexicans have been killed. The carnage has begun to spill over the border.
There've been brazen "home invasions" on the west side of Tucson, Ariz., and
kidnappings in Phoenix. The cartels pursued the mayor of Ciudad JuÃ¡rez across
the border into El Paso, Texas, where he and his family have sought refuge.

Then, two weeks ago, CNN brought such stories much closer to home for many
Americans. As part of the news package titled, "Mayhem in Mexico," CNN featured
a white couple, Chris and Debra Hall, and their two children, who were robbed
and threatened in Baja California by masked gunmen.

Traumatized, the Halls recalled the harrowing incident over and over, as the
piece replayed for days. Though Chris and Debra have been vacationing in Mexico
since they were teenagers, they vowed never to go back. The CNN reporter ended
the story on an ominous note: "The country they loved, stolen from them in the
middle of the night on a Mexican highway."

The terror and the truth of the Halls' experience isn't in doubt, and it's a
cautionary tale worth telling. But CNN's sharply defined middle-American angle
on Mexico's violence also carried with it an uh-oh factor. When the American
majority starts to see itself as the primary victim of Mexican chaos, it can
unleash outsized fears and overreactions against a minority.

Even in the best of times, Mexico can easily slip into a menacing role in the
American mind. For generations, sailors, soldiers and teenagers would cross the
border to break rules they wouldn't dare bend at home. It isn't surprising that
the place next door that so many Americans reserve for illicit fun would loom
large as a source of social problems and boogeyman evil.

Nearly a century ago, during its revolution, Mexico's social and political
problems hopped the border in much the same way they are now   real incidents,
easily magnified to chilling effect. Back then, what Americans feared most from
their southern neighbor was that its political radicalism would seep northward.
In 1915, the Chicago Tribune came close to predicting a race war in the
Southwest.

"Mexican anarchy," Tribune's editorial board warned, "now thrusts its red hand
across our border and with an insane insolence attempts to visit upon American
citizens in their homes the destruction it has wreaked upon American persons and
property abroad."

In fact, a year later, Pancho Villa, angry at the United States for recognizing
the government of his rival, Venustiano Carranza, led a 500-man attack on the
border town of Columbus, N.M. Seven hundred miles away, the Los Angeles Police
Department reacted to the news by announcing that no guns or liquor would be
sold to Mexicans for fear they would revolt. The chief of police tripled the
patrol of the heavily Mexican district known as "Sonoratown."

Applauding the move, the Los Angeles Times, which estimated that at least 10
percent of the city's 35,000 Mexicans were "rabid sympathizers with the outlaw,
Villa," warned that "the firebrands ... must be watched and snuffed out."

Mexico's anguish now will undoubtedly add fuel to the U.S. anti-immigrant fire,
breathing new life into nativism in general and anti-Mexican sentiment in
particular. Badly needed immigration reform   already a third rail of U.S.
politics and made even more politically dangerous because of the economy's
meltdown   will get further buried under new American fears. It's all too easy
to identify all immigrants with the worst of the problems of the nation they
left.

Ironically, the drug war fallout will also inevitably strengthen the ties of
those immigrants to their current home. I know many Mexicans and Mexican
Americans in Los Angeles who are now reluctant even to visit Tijuana for fear of
getting kidnapped or caught in the crossfire. The violence back home means that
more immigrants will simply feel safer in the United States.

For more than a century, millions of Mexican migrants came to the U.S. harboring
dreams of making money and returning home, and many did just that. Now, however,
more and more Mexican families will be obliged to acknowledge that their future
is here   and only here.

The Halls aren't the only ones to have a country they love stolen from them.

Gregory Rodriguez, a columnist for the Los Angeles Times opinion pages, is
director of the California Fellows Program at the New America Foundation and
author of "Mongrels, Bastards, Orphans and Vagabonds: Mexican Immigration and
the Future of Race in America."


Gregory Rodriguez, a columnist for the Los Angeles Times opinion pages, is
director of the California Fellows Program at the New America Foundation and
author of "Mongrels, Bastards, Orphans and Vagabonds: Mexican Immigration and
the Future of Race in America."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               57 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 8, 2009 Wednesday

Opinion: Obama can give gay families equal immigration rights

BYLINE: Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 572 words


The recent case of the deportation order against Jay Mercado's partner, Shirley
Tan of Pacifica, and the deportation in 2007 of Tim Coco's partner, Genésio de
Oliveira of Boston, make a clear point: Individual, time-consuming, last-ditch
private bills such as the ones by U.S. Rep. Jackie Speier and Sen. John Kerry
are not a realistic or viable solution to the blatant and cruel discrimination
written into U.S. immigration law.

There is a proposal to deal with the larger problem. The Uniting American
Families Act would fix a serious omission in our immigration system that
blatantly discriminates against gay and lesbian American citizens and their
families. It is moving through Congress, but President Barack Obama should make
it law now through an executive order.

These Americans are in long term, loving, and committed relationships with
foreign-born partners. But because our federal government does not recognize
their relationships, an estimated 36,000 Americans around the world are unable
to permanently and legally keep their families together in the United States.
Thousands have been forced to leave this country, often with their children in
tow, to live in exile with the person they love. They leave behind brothers,
sisters, fathers and mothers, simply to keep their own nuclear families
together.

Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., is the sponsor of the Uniting American Families Act
(H.R. 1024) in the House of Representatives. He says this discrimination is
"gratuitous cruelty." Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., the sponsor of S. 424 in the
U.S. Senate, says that it forces a choice with which "no American should be
faced   to choose between the country they love and the person they love."

Marriage Equality USA is a national grass-roots organization advocating for
access to all 1,138 rights and benefits of marriage for all Americans. We've
called on the president to issue an executive order that will bestow just one of
those rights, that of immigration sponsorship of one's life-partner, and make
the Uniting American Families Act law.

In a statement on the floor of the U.S. Senate in 2007, Obama said, "Where we
can reunite families, we should." That's what this act is about. His agenda on
the White House Web site commits his administration to fixing "the dysfunctional
immigration bureaucracy and [increasing] the number of legal immigrants to keep
families together"..." An executive order making the Uniting American Families
Act law would be a simple yet powerful way to demonstrate his commitment to
family unity and civil rights for all Americans.

In his nascent administration, Obama has already used the executive order 18
times, many of them to right the wrongs of the previous administration. In 2004,
Department of Homeland Security spokesman Chris Bentley was quoted as saying,
"There are no immigration benefits available to [gays] based on their
relationship. With that said, there's certainly nothing that says a U.S. citizen
cannot move to another country." A policy of exiling Americans so that they
might remain with their partners was as wrongheaded in 2004 as it is today.

One stroke of the president's pen enacting the Uniting American Families Act is
all that is needed for all Americans to have the right to live in their country
and keep their families intact.

Chris Waddling of San Francisco is binational outreach director of Marriage
Equality USA. He wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               58 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette Jr.: U.S.-Mexico agenda is the same as it ever was

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 589 words


Change is the buzzword on both sides of the border. But how much has really
changed?

Twenty years ago, when President George H.W. Bush hosted President Carlos
Salinas de Gortari at the White House, topics included immigration, trade and
drugs. This week, the discussions in Mexico City between President Barack Obama
and President Felipe Calderón will almost certainly revolve around the same
subjects   with a few twists.

First, immigration, while a pressing concern for both countries in previous
years, will be on the back burner. That's where both men have put the issue in
their respective administrations. Calderón has declared his war against the drug
cartels his No. 1 priority; Obama is more focused on U.S. economic issues.

That's as it should be, but immigration reform is also economic reform. Fixing
the immigration system would end the unfair advantage that illegal workers have
over U.S. citizens.

Second, an expected discussion on trade is likely to be awkward. In the past,
the emphasis was on expanding markets and improving the relationship between the
United States and Mexico, our No. 2 trading partner (after Canada). This time,
there's the smell of protectionism on the U.S. side, and Mexican officials are
holding their noses.

The two countries are inching toward a full-blown trade war over whether Mexican
long-haul truckers should be allowed to deliver goods inside the United States.
The issue was supposed to be settled years ago. The North American Free Trade
Agreement of 1994 opened up the roads of Canada, Mexico and the United States to
trucks from all three countries. But someone forgot to clear this with the
Teamsters union, which pulls the strings of Democrats in Congress. The union
likes the current system, where Mexican truckers unload cargo onto U.S. trucks
after crossing the border. The Mexicans land the deals, and the Americans poach
them.

Last month, Democrats inserted a provision into a spending bill that killed a
pilot project that, for the last few years, let several dozen Mexican trucks
travel throughout the United States. Mexico retaliated by imposing tariffs on
$2.4 billion worth of U.S. export products and threatened to ratchet up the
tariffs if the U.S. doesn't restore the trucking program.

On the third big item of discussion   drugs   the Mexican government intends to
expand the discussion about the drug trade to include mention of the gun trade.
In fact, the Mexican newspaper El Universal reports that Calderón will try to
make reducing the flow of arms from the United States into Mexico the main focus
of his meeting with Obama. On CBS's "Face the Nation," Ambassador Arturo
Sarukhan said that the key question of the summit is "how can the United States
help to shut down those guns and shut down that bulk cash that is providing the
drug syndicates in Mexico with the wherewithal to corrupt, to bribe, to kill."

Calderón also needs to convince Obama that this isn't some Peace Corps charity
mission. This is as much America's war as it is Mexico's. Americans not only
supply the guns but also consume the drugs that provide the cartels with the
funds to buy those guns.

Calderón is engaged in a very serious battle with some very ruthless criminals.
Calderón needs a guarantee that Obama will live up to his word, and be there
when the Mexican leader needs him   even if it becomes politically unpopular at
home. And given the backsliding on immigration and trade, Calderón had better
get it in writing.


Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               59 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 29, 2009 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette Jr. Swine flu renews anti-immigrant hysteria

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 582 words


Some of what is being said about the possible swine flu pandemic that seems to
have originated in Mexico demonstrates that ignorance is infectious.

Among the infected: Rep. Duncan D. Hunter, R-El Cajon, who recently proposed
that President Barack Obama consider restricting travel between the United
States and Mexico and prepare to close the border to "ensure this virus does not
spread any more than it might already have."

According to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, about half a million people
move between the two countries each day   and that's just at the San Ysidro port
of entry south of San Diego, the world's busiest border crossing. The economic
cost of restricting cross-border travel would be enormous. And to what end? As
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano recently noted, "You would close
the border if you thought you could contain disease   the spread of the disease,
but the disease already is in a number of states within the United States so the
containment issue doesn't really play out."

Also infected is CNN commentator Jack Cafferty, who irresponsibly spouted off
this week about how Americans would be much safer had we secured the border
after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, because of "all these illegal immigrants
who we let come in, "... (some of whom) may have brought this in."

The operative phrase being "may have" since we don't know how the disease came
to this country. Although Cafferty used the word "secure," from the sound of it,
what he really wants is to "seal" the border. With 2,000 miles between
Brownsville, Texas, and San Diego, good luck. Also, for those eager to blame the
spread of the disease on illegal immigrants, the odds don't add up the way they
might have a few years ago. Illegal immigration into the United States is down
dramatically thanks to the sour U.S. economy.

Meanwhile, studies show that for those illegal immigrants who are already in the
United States, very few of them go back and forth between the two countries.
More often, they stay on this side of the border rather than pay additional
smuggling fees or risk their lives trying to re-enter the United States. In
fact, it's just as likely that, if someone did indeed carry the swine flu into
the United States from Mexico, it was someone who could travel freely between
the countries   such as a U.S. citizen or legal immigrant. In New York, American
students who went to Cancún for spring break fell ill.

Given the large quantities of fear and xenophobia that Americans digested during
the immigration debate, maybe it was too much to ask that we could confront an
international health crisis originating in Mexico without slipping back into old
habits.

As Napolitano pointed out, even if we do a better job of stopping people from
entering the United States illegally   something we should do anyway as a moral
and practical matter   we still have to confront the reality of as many as 12
million illegal immigrants who are already here. Not to mention all the legal
immigrants and U.S. citizens who might frequently travel back and forth to
Mexico.

So, let's guard against the ugliness and resist the temptation to reach for
simple solutions. And let's deal with one issue at a time, leaving illegal
immigration for another day. After all, that debate always seems to produce fear
and anxiety. And, as Americans try to contain an outbreak of swine flu, we
already have ample stockpiles of both.


Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               60 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 7, 2009 Thursday

Mountain View center to screen immigration film

BYLINE: By Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; News; Local; Entertainment;
Film; Movies

LENGTH: 286 words


More than 300 people are expected to attend a Saturday screening of "Letters
from the Other Side," a film documentary on the impact of immigration on
families left behind in Mexico.

Filmmaker Heather Courtney will answer questions during a panel discussion after
the 7 p.m. screening Saturday at the Community School of Music and Arts, 230 San
Antonio Circle, Mountain View.

By showing the film in Mountain View, Maria Marroquin, executive director of the
Day Worker Center, said she hopes more people will learn about the role the
center plays in the lives of immigrants.

"It's just a way to show the community what we're doing," she said. "The center
is a place where immigrants come to gather and in that way, it becomes a family
for those without a family."

The center, now temporarily housed in a church building downtown, has found a
vacant building on Escuela Avenue to renovate as its permanent home. But
residents of the neighborhood are protesting the planned move, saying that it is
a commercial operation ill-suited for a residential neighborhood.

Residents who are appealing a conditional-use permit for the center have
enlisted the help of Judicial Watch, a conservative national group that has sued
other cities around the country. The group claims that cities such as Laguna
Beach illegally use taxpayer money to support the operation of day worker
centers in those cities.

Officials of Judicial Watch, which has a project called "Sanctuary Busters,"
said it is considering similar legal action in Mountain View.

The film screening for "Letters" is free, but seating is limited. To reserve a
seat, call the Day Worker Center at 650-903-4102 or e-mail
event@dayworkercentermv.org

Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 7, 2009 Thursday

Mountain View center to screen documentary on immigrants' families in Mexico

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 287 words


More than 300 people are expected to attend a Saturday screening of "Letters
from the Other Side," a film documentary on the impact of immigration on
families left behind in Mexico.

Filmmaker Heather Courtney will answer questions during a panel discussion after
the 7 p.m. screening Saturday at the Community School of Music and Arts, 230 San
Antonio Circle, Mountain View.

By showing the film in Mountain View, Maria Marroquin, executive director of the
Day Worker Center, said she hopes more people will learn about the role the
center plays in the lives of immigrants.

"It's just a way to show the community what we're doing," she said. "The center
is a place where immigrants come to gather and in that way, it becomes a family
for those without a family."

The center, now temporarily housed in a church building downtown, has found a
vacant building on Escuela Avenue to renovate as its permanent home. But
residents of the neighborhood are protesting the planned move, saying that it is
a commercial operation ill-suited for a residential neighborhood.

Residents who are appealing a conditional-use permit for the center have
enlisted the help of Judicial Watch, a conservative national group that has sued
other cities around the country. The group claims that cities such as Herndon,
VA., and Laguna Beach, illegally use taxpayer money to support the operation of
day worker centers in those cities.

Officials of Judicial Watch, which has a project called "Sanctuary Busters,"
said it is considering similar legal action in Mountain View.

The film screening for "Letters" is free, but seating is limited. To reserve a
seat, call the Day Worker Center at 650-903-4102 or e-mail
jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               62 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

ICE gang crackdown nets 17 arrests of foreign nationals in Santa Clara County

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 421 words


An operation by federal and local law enforcement agents in Santa Clara County
Thursday has resulted in the arrest of 17 foreign nationals with alleged ties to
violent street gangs who now face criminal charges or deportation, a U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement special agent said today.

The arrests, made Thursday evening, are part of an ongoing initiative called
"Operation Community Shield" by the national gang unit of ICE, which works with
other federal, state and local law enforcement agencies throughout the country.

Arrests were made beginning at 5 p.m. Thursday at homes in Morgan Hill, San
Jose, San Martin and Gilroy, said Joseph Vincent, assistant special agent in
charge of the operation.

The majority of the people arrested were members of the Varrio Sur Rifa clique
of the Sureno street gang, while one man arrested was part of the Abstract Minds
clique of the Norteno gang, Vincent said today.

A female associate of a local street gang who had previously been convicted of
carrying a loaded gun in a public place was also one of the people taken into
custody. A .38-caliber snub-nose revolver was also recovered during the
operation.

All 17 arrests happened to be of foreign nationals, and at least five will face
prosecution on state or federal criminal charges, such as re-entry after
deportation and various drug violations, according to Vincent.

The other suspects were arrested on administrative immigration violations and
placed in removal proceedings. They will be held in ICE custody and scheduled
for a deportation hearing before an immigration judge.

Vincent said the arrests made Thursday will likely lead to more arrests in the
future of additional gang members in the region.

"I don't think it's any mystery that there's a proliferation of gangs in the
South Bay," he said.

ICE received substantial assistance from the Gilroy and Morgan Hill police
departments during the operation, according to Vincent.

Gilroy police Sgt. Jim Gillio said eight people were arrested in that city.

Since the start of Operation Community Shield in February 2005, ICE agents
nationwide have arrested more than 13,000 gang members and associates linked to
more than 900 different gangs. More than 150 of those arrests involved gang
leaders, according to ICE.

To report suspicious activity, call ICE's 24-hour toll-free hotline at
866-347-2423 or visit www.ice.gov .

Copyright © 2009 by Bay City News, Inc. "... republication, re-transmission or
reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               63 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Gay Filipino professor wins political asylum after revealing a 30-year secret of
sexual abuse

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 559 words


After his visitor's visa expired in 2006, Philip Belarmino, an English professor
from the Philippines, consulted a San Francisco attorney. He wanted to see if he
could stay longer to be with his parents and sister who are permanent residents
in the Bay Area.

That bureaucratic immigration path led instead to revelation of a stunning
personal secret, recounted during an emotional testimony in an immigration
courtroom in San Francisco last month: When he was 9, 11 and 16, Belarmino said
he was repeatedly sexually assaulted by other boys.

Recounting the abuse, said the 43-year Bay Area resident, was "like forever. It
was like re-entering a harrowing, hellish experience."

He feared a forced return to the Philippines, "of being hurled back in the world
of cruelty."

That wrenching testimony convinced Judge Loreto Geisse to grant Belarmino
political asylum in the United States, ending for now the government's effort to
deport him. The Department of Justice, which has until June 22 to appeal, could
not be reached for comment Monday.

Political asylum in the United States for gays and lesbians who fear persecution
if returned to their home countries is not new and no one knows how many such
cases are granted each year. Immigration Equality, a New York City group that
advocates for gay and lesbian immigrant rights, won 55 similar cases last year.

Thousands of cases are won each year by victims of war and political
persecution, but grants of asylum for gay men like Belarmino are relatively few
and far between. The last known Bay Area case, a gay Mexican man who feared a
return to Mexico, was in 2001 and was appealed successfully before the 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals.

"These cases are very challenging and they're very difficult to win," said Karen
Musalo, clinical professor of law, and director of the Center for Gender and
Refugee Studies at the University of California Hastings College of Law.

"They are firmly legitimate under the law," she said. "Kudos to the lawyer."

Ted Laguatan, a veteran immigration attorney from San Francisco, said he
represented Belarmino in his previously unsuccessful efforts to stay in the U.S.
He was denied an extension to his visitor's visa and denied a student visa. He
faced deportation after overstaying his visa.

Laguatan said he didn't know Belarmino's personal story at first. He knew the
basics: Belarmino grew up in Manila, the Philippine capital, and taught for 17
years at a public university. He is the second to the youngest in a family of
six children.

In a conversation in 2007, Belarmino revealed that he is gay. He also revealed
the sexual abuse, how he kept it secret from his family, and how he feared
reporting it to the police, worried about harassment and more abuse.

"I saw his anguish," Laguatan said. "I had deep concern for Philip, and I wanted
to help him as competently and diligently as possible."

For the past two years that Belarmino was fighting deportation and seeking
asylum, his family didn't know he is gay, and that as a child he endured abuse.

Belarmino came out to his family the day he also got political asylum.

"If it weren't for the case, it would have remained a secret," said Bess Naguit,
Belarmino's sister. "In our hearts, we knew Phil wanted to spare us the sadness,
the grief and the pain."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               64 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 8, 2009 Saturday

Opinion: Latinos know profiling all too well

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 766 words


If you think it's embarrassing for an African-American to have to identify
himself to the police while in his own house, imagine how humiliating it is for
U.S.-born Hispanics to have to prove their citizenship in their own country.

With racial profiling in the news lately, it's worth noting that America's
largest minority has to endure the practice, too   with a twist. According to
several studies, not only do Hispanics get pulled over by police and have their
cars searched at a higher rate than whites, but they also sometimes suffer the
indignity of having to prove that they have the legal right to even be in the
United States.

Things get really insulting when the question is asked in the Southwest. In
Arizona, some Hispanic families have lived there for eight generations; in New
Mexico, some Hispanics trace their roots back 500 years.

Nor is it just a minor inconvenience. There have been moments in history when
things went haywire. The most infamous example is "Operation Wetback" in 1954,
when the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service set out to remove 1 million
illegal immigrants by sweeping Mexican-American neighborhoods and conducting
random identification checks of anyone who looked Mexican. Many of those
deported were U.S. citizens. Back then, the Border Patrol got help from local
police agencies.

This ugly fad is making a comeback. Some local agencies are itching to play
Border Patrol agent.

Not a good idea, according to police chiefs who recently urged Congress to bar
local police from immigration enforcement. Updating recommendations by the
leaders of more than 50 urban police departments, the chiefs   including John
Timoney of Miami, Art Acevedo of Austin, Texas, and Art Venegas, formerly chief
of the Sacramento Police Department   also urged that illegal immigrants be
given legal status so that law enforcement can keep track of them.

A recent report from the Police Foundation, a nonprofit organization that spent
a year meeting with police officials and community representatives from around
the country, concluded that law enforcement works best when everyone stays
within their jurisdiction. According to the report, when local police carry out
immigration enforcement, it often undermines   rather than preserves   public
safety.

Once trust is eroded and word gets out that a community of immigrants won't talk
to police   not even when they've been victimized   all manner of predators will
seek them out. Crime will go up, as will the number of victims.

All so a local sheriff can brag about being a "tough guy" to voters or a police
chief can cater to nativists on the city council. Never mind that local cops and
sheriff's deputies usually don't have the skill sets to enforce immigration law,
which is why mistakes happen.

And speaking of mistakes, Arizona's Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio seems to
be making more than his share. I was writing about the self-proclaimed
"America's toughest sheriff" 10 years ago while working for the Arizona
Republic. That was before Arpaio discovered the power of the immigration issue
to feed his addiction: getting on television. Now the sheriff and his posse are
rounding up Hispanics wholesale, playing the averages on the assumption that
most of them are here illegally.

That's ridiculous   and illogical. Yet logic was never Arpaio's strong suit. The
one good thing to come from his stunts such as parading illegal immigrants
through downtown Phoenix like prize cattle is that the federal government may
tug on his leash. Congress and the Justice Department are investigating
complaints of civil rights violations, and the Department of Homeland Security
after initially looking the other way   might strip the sheriff of the authority
to dabble in immigration enforcement.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, a former Arizona governor, said
recently that her department would revamp the controversial 287(g) program,
which allows state and local police agencies to make immigration arrests.
Napolitano wants to require the agencies to clear plans for immigration sweeps
with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and coordinate with ICE agents
before releasing information about such sweeps to the news media. She also wants
to prevent agencies from arresting people whose only infraction is being in the
country illegally.

Arpaio doesn't like those terms, and he says he might not sign the agreement. If
he doesn't sign, the feds say they'll kick him out of the program.

Sounds like a plan. What are they waiting for? Kick away.


RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               65 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 11, 2009 Tuesday

Editorial: TB threat shouldn't hold up adoptions from China

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 234 words


Santa Clara County has a special interest in reducing the threat of
tuberculosis, since the county's active rate of TB cases is about triple the
national rate. But a new Centers for Disease Control directive aimed at
minimizing the number of immigrants entering the United States with TB goes too
far.

The CDC policy requires TB testing for all immigrants over the age of 2 from
Ethiopia and China. China has been one of the leading sources of foreign
adoptions for American parents in recent years, and the policy threatens to
disrupt scores of adoptions that are already in the works.

The CDC should exempt children who are adopted abroad by American parents. Any
parent who is willing to go to the extraordinary effort and expense of adopting
a child from Ethiopia or China is going to be willing to voluntarily test the
child for TB and will surely provide any treatment that's needed.

Medical experts say it's rare for children to transmit the disease to adults, a
fact the CDC does not dispute. Children don't carry the same amount of bacteria
as adults, which makes it much harder for children with TB to infect anyone.

TB once was thought to be all but eliminated in this country. Adult immigrants
have helped to bring it back, and policies to prevent them from entering with
the infection are sound. But the low risk of adopted children transmitting TB to
Americans does not justify the CDC's policy.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               66 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday

Redwood City DUI checkpoint shutdown scrutinized

BYLINE: By Shaun Bishop Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 765 words


Redwood City's mayor has asked the city manager to review an incident in which a
police DUI checkpoint was canceled after a council member relayed concerns about
its location to the police chief.

Council Member Barbara Pierce says she did nothing wrong in contacting Chief Lou
Cobarruviaz about the July 2 operation in front of the Fair Oaks Community
Center.

Still, the incident has raised questions about the relationship between council
members and department heads, and Mayor Rosanne Foust asked City Manager Peter
Ingram late Friday to re-examine what happened in case the council wants to
discuss the issue. The checkpoint shutdown was first reported in the September
issue of the city's monthly community magazine, The Spectrum.

"This is an uncomfortable and sensitive issue, so I think we need to think about
it," Foust said in an interview Monday. "I asked (Ingram), do we need to do
something, based on this (Spectrum) story and the public comments on it."

A flurry of correspondence on July 2 about the DUI checkpoint started with an
e-mail from Sheryl Munoz-Bergman, the director of San Mateo County immigration
programs for the International Institute of the Bay Area, which has an office in
the Fair Oaks center. The institute provides legal advice and other services to
immigrant families, including illegal immigrants.

In the e-mail, obtained by The Daily News, Munoz-Bergman said she was concerned
that police set up the checkpoint in front of the center at 2600 Middlefield
Road and were using its parking lot to impound cars. Munoz-Bergman noted that
the center is known as "a safe place for all Redwood City residents to get help
and answer questions" and wrote that the authorities were "jeopardizing our
relationship with the community."

Munoz-Bergman also called Pierce, who said she tried to pass on the concerns to
other city officials. When none of them responded, Pierce called and e-mailed
Cobarruviaz, telling him in her e-mail that she had received a call about the
checkpoint, though she did not suggest any actions.

"I appreciate the need to do the checking, just ask for your thoughts on the
location, and community concern. Thanks," Pierce wrote.

The chief then told patrol division Capt. Chris Cesena to either move the
checkpoint or shut it down, according to an e-mail Cobarruviaz later sent to
Foust and other city officials. Cesena decided to end the operation early and
reschedule it.

Police had planned to set up the checkpoint in front of the Costco down the
road, but construction there forced the move to the "unfortunate" spot in front
of the center, the chief explained in his e-mail. Cobarruviaz could not be
reached for comment Monday.

Munoz-Bergman wrote to Pierce a few days later on July 6, thanking her "for your
quick action to end the use of the Fair Oaks Community Center parking lot as a
police checkpoint on Thursday afternoon." Reached Monday by phone, Munoz-Bergman
declined to comment.

Pierce said she was simply passing on information to the chief, not trying to
influence his decisions.

"When I heard that there was some concern, I sent him a note just simply saying,
'FYI, by the way,' " Pierce said. "Didn't tell him what to do. Not my job. And I
would have stood by whatever decision he and his department made."

One resident who spoke at Monday's city council meeting told the council he was
"disturbed" that the checkpoint was shut down; a second person said the city
should "enforce the law for the safety of its citizens."

For her part, Foust said she disagreed with the decision to close down the
checkpoint.

"For me, it's a DUI checkpoint and I personally think the location is not
relevant," she said. "My feeling is they are set up for a reason."

While she stopped short of saying Pierce made a mistake in contacting the police
chief, Foust noted she got the same e-mail from Munoz-Bergman and opted not to
contact him.

"I don't think that we have to respond right when we get an e-mail. Maybe we all
need to get more information first," Foust said.

Ingram said Monday he hasn't yet begun to review the incident, but he plans to
start by talking with police officials to verify what happened in the field. At
this point, Ingram and City Attorney Stan Yamamoto both said they don't think
Pierce was out of line in contacting the chief.

"It is not unusual for council members to pass on information to me and others
on a frequent basis," Ingram said. "I think that's the way it ought to be. It's
helpful to us and it respects the boundaries and it lets management make
management decisions."

E-mail Shaun Bishop at sbishop@dailynewsgroup.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               67 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 23, 2009 Wednesday

Navarrette: Advice for immigrants

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 712 words


Some might consider this an impolite way to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month.
But this year, I'm giving Latino immigrants a gift straight from the heart: a
lecture.

Now is a good time. Immigrants are one of the best things about this country,
but with Congress about to restart the immigration reform debate, they will soon
have to be on their best behavior. A lot of American citizens are asking what
immigrants are prepared to do for America   in exchange for what immigrants want
America to do for them.

First, the good news: Unlike many Americans who seem to think that some jobs are
beneath their dignity, immigrants don't need to be told to work hard at whatever
jobs they find. In fact, if you want to know why many employers prefer foreign
workers to the native-born, it's not just because immigrants will often work for
lower wages but also because immigrants see work as a higher calling. While many
Americans do just enough on the job to get by, many immigrants do what it takes
to get ahead.

Where immigrants   and particularly Latino immigrants   could stand some
improvement is in their relationship with the United States. Too many of the
foreign-born still act as though they're outliers when they need to be more
integrated into the national fabric. Surely, one reason for this is how
marginalized the foreign-born are made to feel by many of our institutions. But
some of the blame falls on immigrants, some of whom refuse to become fully
engaged in society, believing that doing so would make them disloyal to their
home countries. They need to do a better job of bonding with their adopted
country.

They should start by making a few goodwill gestures:

1. All immigrants should enter the United States legally. If they enter
illegally and aren't detected, some may still be eligible to try to legalize
their status. They must do so.

2. Learn English. U.S. companies, Latino marketing firms and bilingual educrats
have, for their own benefit, built an alternative universe that keeps Latino
immigrants speaking Spanish. But English is the language of empowerment.

3. Don't feel entitled to anything. Americans have this affliction   more
concerned with rights than with responsibilities and with what they think they
deserve as opposed to what they've earned   and immigrants would do well to
steer clear of it.

4. Don't play the victim. Another national obsession to avoid. For those who
feel put off or don't get what they want, the surest way to duck responsibility
is to see themselves as pushed around by forces beyond their control.

5. Assimilate. Like the Irish, Italians and Germans before them, today's Latino
immigrants can preserve their heritage and culture and still blend into the
mainstream by adopting new customs.

6. Accept conditions to become legal. While some on the open-borders left demand
that illegal immigrants be granted an unconditional amnesty, those who broke our
laws have to make restitution and do whatever is required to get right with the
law.

7. Challenge both major political parties. Don't assume one is your dependable
ally and the other, your natural enemy. The way to remain politically relevant
is to avoid being taken for granted by some and written off by others.

8. Teach your children that education is indispensable. While many Latino
immigrants value education for their children, they don't always value it for
themselves. So the children rarely learn by example.

9. Earn citizenship, then register and vote. Like a graduate school professor of
mine used to say: "Politics is not a spectator sport. You take part, or you get
taken apart."

10. Put down roots, give up the fantasy of returning home. No matter what you
tell yourselves, or what nativists like to believe, most of you are not going
home. The United States is your home now. The repairs, expenses, upkeep, and
other obligations are your responsibility   just like for your fellow Americans.

Living in this remarkable country places you at a buffet table full of
opportunities. But remember, there is no free lunch. Obey the law. Raise good
kids. Pay your way. Don't take handouts. You'll do fine. And, like those who
came before you, chances are you'll help make this country better than you found
it.


Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               68 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 6, 2009 Tuesday

O'Brien: Nobel prizes remind us why immigration matters

BYLINE: By Chris O'Brien Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Business; Columnists; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 575 words


If you're looking for reasons to puff out your chest and take pride in being
American, then take note that the first six Nobel Prize winners announced this
week are U.S. citizens.

Here's something else you should know: Four of those winners were born outside
the U.S.

That dynamic neatly summarizes the current state of our innovation economy. We
are increasingly dependent on brainpower from overseas that migrates here to
drive the research and discoveries we need to power economic growth.

Silicon Valley has been a bigger beneficiary of this influx of brains and talent
than perhaps any other region in the U.S. And that means we have more to lose
when the debate about immigration turns to demagoguery.

However you feel about the H-1B visas that our tech companies hunger for, or the
swarms of bodies crossing our borders to pick our crops, these hot-button topics
obscure the reality: We need these immigrants to renew our economy and to
prosper. Our demonization of them is shameful.

Instead, we should celebrate the presence of people like Elizabeth Blackburn,
professor at the University of California-San Francisco. Blackburn was born in
Australia and moved to the U.S. in 1975. On Monday, she and two other
researchers learned they would receive the Nobel Prize for medicine and split
the $1.4 million it brings.

That money should more than make up for the 5 percent pay cut and furlough
Blackburn (and most other University of California employees) received courtesy
of the sad, sickly state of California. I wonder how many other Nobel winners
took pay cuts just before receiving the award?

When Blackburn came here in the 1970s, it was clear that the U.S. was the
undisputed center of the universe when it came to research. But that advantage
is slipping away, as Blackburn noted that she sees exciting work being done in
many other regions. Given the growing options for new researchers, erecting
barriers to them coming to and staying in the U.S. seems ill-advised.

"I'm a big proponent that the flow of intellectual ideas is crucial," Blackburn
said. "To have borders for it seems counterproductive."

Such walls hurt our country and our economy far in excess of whatever benefits
they produce. We need to recognize the enormous contributions immigrants are
making to the innovation economy.

According to statistics from the National Science Foundation released in
February, foreign-born science and engineering students in 2003 earned one-third
of all Ph.D.s awarded in the U.S. And the study noted that "those who do decide
to finish advanced study in the United States overwhelmingly choose to stay in
the country after earning their advanced degrees."

Thank goodness. In addition to Blackburn, the other foreign-born Nobel winners
over the past two days included:


     ·    Charles Kao, who was born in Shanghai, and has both U.K. and U.S.
          citizenship.



     ·    William Boyle, of Bell Laboratories, was born in Nova Scotia and holds
          dual U.S. and Canadian citizenship.



     ·    Jack Szostak, of Harvard Medical School, was born in London, grew up
          in Canada and is now a U.S. citizen.


We should be particularly proud that these people did not go to Russia or
Germany, but came here. Our nation remains as dependent today as on the day of
its founding on the ideas and imagination brought by fresh waves of newcomers
arriving on our shores.

How strange that a nation founded by immigrants so easily forgets their value.

Contact Chris O'Brien at 415-298-0207 or www.siliconbeat.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Molecular biologist Jack Szostak, a recipient of the 2009 Nobel Prize
in medicin.
Carol W. Greider with her daughter Gwendolyn Comfort, 9, left, and son Charles
Comfort, 13, after a news conference in Baltimore, Monday, Oct. 5, 2009.
Greider, along with two other Americans, won the 2009 Nobel Prize in medicine on
Monday.
Elizabeth Blackburn looks at tests in her lab in San Francisco Monday, Oct. 5,
2009. Sweden's Karolinska institute gave the 2009 Nobel Prize in medicine to
Americans Elizabeth Blackburn, Carol Greider and Jack Szostak.
This 1974 photo provided by Alcatel-Lucent shows researchers Willard Boyle,
left, and George Smith at Bell Labs in Murray Hill, N.J., with the
charge-coupled device, which transforms patterns of light into useful digital
information. Smith, Boyle and Charles K. Kao shared the 2009 Nobel Prize in
physics Tuesday for their work developing fiber-optic cable and the sensor at
the heart of digital cameras.
Charles K. Kao, awarded the 2009 Nobel Prize in physics with Willard S. Boyle
and George E. Smith for breakthroughs involving the transmission of light in
fiber optics and inventing an imaging semiconductor circuit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               69 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday

Immigrants from India wanted to participate in SJSU study

BYLINE: By Lisa Fernandez lfernandez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Education; News; Local

LENGTH: 214 words


A team of researchers wants to interview people who immigrated to Silicon Valley
from India between the years of 1940 and 1965 in a project titled, "The Indian
Diaspora Oral History Project.''

Participants will be asked basic biography questions that delve into deeper
issues about difficulties in transitioning to life in the United States and
hardships encountered as a new immigrant. When complete, the findings will be
available at the San Jose State University library.

"This research will fill an important gap and serve as a benchmark in the
studies of Indian immigrants,'' said historian Rajiv Khanna, one of the
researchers involved in the project. "The oral histories will both illuminate
what it means to live as an Indian-American in the Bay Area as well as help the
immigrant connect with their roots.''

Khanna said he hopes to attract immigrants, ages 65 to 85, who come from all
parts of India and come from an array of cultural, educational, religious and
socio-economic backgrounds.

The $9,500 study is being funded by the San Jose State University Foundation and
Silicon Valley Center for Global Innovation and Immigration.

If you're interested in participating, contact Khanna at 408-924-5548 or e-mail
him at rajivkkhanna@yahoo.com

Contact Lisa Fernandez at 408-920-5002.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               70 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 9, 2009 Monday

Hebrew Bible looted by Nazis sent back to Vienna

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National; World

LENGTH: 225 words


NEW YORK   A 16th century Hebrew Bible looted by the Nazis six decades ago was
returned to Vienna's Jewish community today.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials turned over the two-volume
Bible to two Austrian emissaries during a repatriation ceremony at the Museum of
Jewish Heritage in Manhattan.

Published in Venice in 1516-17, the Bible once was part of the well-known
medieval manuscripts collection of S.H. Halberstam, officials said. In 1908, it
was donated to the Vienna Jewish community library.

In 1938, during the annexation of Austria, Nazi soldiers confiscated the Bible
in a seizure of the Jewish community's library, and the Bible later wound up in
Berlin.

It was illegally imported into the United States in March, authorities said.

In June, New York auction house Kestenbaum & Co., which specializes in rare
books, offered the Bible for sale, according to immigration officials and
federal prosecutors. An investigation by immigration officials concluded that it
belonged to the library.

The auctioneer had been unaware of its history and withdrew it from the sale.

The Bible includes an Aramaic summary and a series of commentaries by medieval
rabbinic figures from the 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th centuries.

It was given to Ariel Muzicant, president of Vienna's Jewish community, and
Ernst-Peter Brezovsky, Austrian consul-general.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               71 of 71 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 30, 2009 Friday

H-1B visa applications lowest since 2003

BYLINE: By John Boudreau jboudreau@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; News; Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 778 words


More than six months after the federal government began accepting petitions for
work visas popular with Silicon Valley companies, thousands of spots remain
open, a reflection of the nation's high unemployment and the political pressure
to hire citizens, experts say.

As of last week, 46,700 H-1B visa applications had been submitted, thousands
less than the 65,000 allocated for fiscal year 2010 and the lowest number since
2003. The cap for 20,000 additional H-1B visas reserved for foreign graduates of
U.S. colleges with at least a master's degree was met, though applications are
still being accepted.

Tech industry insiders say the recession is primarily responsible for the dearth
of applications. "There is definitely a sense that there is a growing hostility
toward some of the (visa) programs, but I don't think that is related to the
downturn" in petitions, said Jenifer Verdery, Intel's director of work force
policy. "You are not going to see big ramp-ups in hiring during the downturn."

But political pressure did affect hiring in other industries. The federal
stimulus law includes provisions making it difficult for financial companies
receiving money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to hire H-1B
workers. The requirement forced companies like Bank of America to rescind job
offers to foreign professionals.

Julie Pearl, a San Francisco-based corporate immigration lawyer who works with
valley companies, says her firm's caseload for visa work has been cut in half.
"In the financial industry, H-1B (applications) are down almost 75 percent," she
added.

Sen. Charles Grassley has criticized tech companies for not protecting jobs of
U.S. citizens over those of foreigners as they lay off thousands of employees at
a clip. The Iowa Republican and Sen. Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, in
April reintroduced a bill that would require companies to do everything they can
to hire Americans before seeking H-1B visas.

One technology corporate client of Pearl's declined to file petitions out of a
sense of patriotism. "They felt, 'How do you hire a foreigner' " with 12 percent
unemployment in California, she said.

Samta Kapoor, who will complete her master's degree in engineering management at
Duke University in December, said she and other foreign-born classmates have
been told by prospective employers that they are not hiring international
students this year. "There are times when we are not even looked at. They say,
'We are not hiring international students this year. It's a companywide policy.
Sorry,' " she said.

Silicon Valley companies, where immigrants have played prominent roles in
creating startups and new technology inventions, view the H-1B visa program as a
way to grab the best talent from around the world. "For most of our clients,
their mantra is: Hire the best person you can," Pearl added.

Companies can spend thousands of dollars per applicant. "It's such a hard
process," Verdery of Intel said. "It's a laborious, difficult, expensive
endeavor to bring someone on board."

Despite the challenges, Intel has continued about the same level of H-1B hiring
as in the past, she said.

In recent years, there has been some support from both parties in Congress for
more H-1B visas and green cards for foreign professionals, a major goal of tech
companies that has been caught up in the highly charged debate over immigration.

During the dot-com boom a decade ago, the H-1B visa cap was 195,000 a year, a
reflection of the frenzied hiring of tech workers in Silicon Valley and
elsewhere around the nation. That number dropped dramatically during the
recession that followed.

Les French, president of WashTech, a Seattle-based union for tech professionals,
which is critical of the visa program, predicts application levels will
eventually rise again. "Once the economy picks up, you'll see a pickup in the
applications," he said. "I think it will be lock-step with the economy."

Others, though, say the difficulties faced by foreign-born potential workers as
well as the recession will deter some overseas professionals from pursuing
careers here.

"The problem is, you lose the cream-of-the-crop," said Vivek Wadhwa, a
researcher on immigration and labor issues at the University of
California-Berkeley. "The cream of the crop can get jobs elsewhere. Before, they
had to come here."

Nonetheless, students such as Kapoor say the United States is still their first
choice.

"There are a lot of things happening back home," said Kapoor, who is from
Mumbai, India. "There would be no lack of opportunity for me if I went back. But
I've been educated here. I want to give back to the United States."

Contact John Boudreau at 408-278-3496.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MERCURY NEWS PHOTO BY MERI SIMON 9/27/2000 Workers and the tons of
paper they deal with at the California Service Center of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The INS is being overwhelmed with applications including
paperwork forH-1B visas and green card applications that often follow.
MERCURY NEWS PHOTO BY MERI SIMON 7/18/2000 Asif Siddique goes through a pile of
papers containing his visa and other immigration documents. He has been working
in the U.S. on an H-1B visa but his visa expired before he was approved for a
green card. He can no longer work in the U. S. but he stays here while he waits
hoping to get his green card. Siddique has been in the US since 1987. He went to
shcool at Ohio State University. He is origionally from Pakistan.
MERCURY NEWS PHOTO BY MERI SIMON 9/27/2000 Workers at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's California Service Center deal with tons of paperwork.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
