
                               1 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 13, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FUNDS SOUGHT FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein has endorsed Gov. Pete Wilson's request of $2.3
billion in federal funds to pay the state for the cost of services to illegal
immigrants and their children.

Feinstein, who endorsed a similar, unsuccessful Wilson plea for federal help
last year, said Wednesday that their efforts would be intensified this year.

She released copies of a letter she sent Tuesday to President Clinton, arguing
for the extra funds for California.

Clinton responded favorably last year to California's pleas, but Congress
deleted them from the final draft of Clinton's budget.

Feinstein said she was optimistic that she and other California lawmakers could
prevent that last-minute cut this year because five other states, Florida,
Texas, New York, Illinois and New Jersey, have joined California in seeking
funds for services to illegal immigrants.

"We will be stronger this year," Feinstein said. "We've come together as sort of
an immigration caucus."

But getting the federal funds, which are crucial to avoiding more cuts in other
state services, is still an uphill fight because of the pressures to cut federal
spending, she said.

"The numbers of illegal immigrants are extraordinarily large -- more than 2
million in the state -- making up more than half of all the illegal immigrants
in the entire nation," Feinstein wrote the president.

"Mr. President, California is hurting," the letter concludes. "The federal
government sets the law. It mandates that the states absorb the costs of
providing services to illegal immigrants. Therefore the federal government
either needs to change these laws or pick up these costs."

Feinstein also toured a Sacramento housing project where the crime rate has been
reduced through a program in which officers based in an apartment in the project
provide police protection, recreation and study programs for neighborhood
children.

"This is the most impressive program of its kind that I've seen anywhere,"
Feinstein said of the federally financed project.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO:'The numbers of illegal immigrants are extraordinarily large -- more than
2 million in the state -- making up more than half of all the illegal immigrants
in the entire nation. '
--Sen. Dianne Feinstein, in letter to President Clinton
940113 LO 8B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 12, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA SUES U.S. OVER COST OF ILLEGALS $1.5 BILLION IS SOUGHT FOR IMMIGRANT
SERVICES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: Miami


The federal government owes Florida taxpayers $1.5 billion for providing
schooling, health care and prison beds to hundreds of thousands of illegal
immigrants, the governor said Monday as the state sued to collect the money.

Gov. Lawton Chiles said the state's lawsuit against the U.S. government was the
first of its kind.

"The people of Florida are saying 'Enough!' to paying an unfair share of the
cost of providing services to illegal immigrants," said Chiles, a Democrat and
former U.S. senator running for re-election. "The federal government should bear
the financial responsibility for its actions and should pay for the cost of
refusing to protect Florida's borders."

California Gov. Pete Wilson has made much the same argument in seeking $2.5
billion in federal money for his state's expenses on illegal immigrants' social
and health care. But the state has not filed suit against Washington.

Miami is one of the leading destinations for immigrants from Cuba, Haiti and
other Latin American and Caribbean nations.

A report released by Chiles' office last month concluded that Florida paid about
$2.5 billion in 1993 to meet the basic needs of all immigrants. It estimated
that the state and local governments paid $884 million for services to 345,000
illegal immigrants.

The state's lawsuit seeks about $1.5 billion because Florida has been providing
services to illegal immigrants for more than a decade, Chiles said. An INS
spokesman in Washington declined to comment. "Our response will be filed in
court," Rick Kenney said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Gov. Lawton Chiles, right, and state Attorney General Bob Butterworth announce
the suit Monday with a chart breaking down costs.
940412 FR 9A 3

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 27, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT LAWSUIT PARADE JOINED BY TEXAS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 135 words


Following the lead of three other states, Texas announced plans Thursday to sue
the federal government to recover costs of public services for illegal
immigrants.

In doing so, Gov. Ann Richards and other Texas officials appeared to go out of
their way to refrain from casting the lawsuit as a direct attack on the
immigrants themselves, as such moves have often been interpreted elsewhere,
especially in California.

Florida has already filed a suit against the federal government to recover money
spent on educating, housing, hospitalizing and jailing illegal immigrants, and
California and Arizona, which have already sued over prison costs, have also
announced plans to broaden their lawsuits.

Texas officials said Thursday that the suit was a legal means to correct a
glaring budget imbalance.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 2, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS BURDEN U.S. TAXPAYERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 508 words


The United States accepts more legal immigrants than all of the nations of the
world combined. We do not have to apologize to anyone for our attempts to limit
illegal immigration.

Your sad attempt to torture data from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to prove that illegal immigrants are not a burden ("Why they come," Editorials,
Dec. 19) flies in the face of reality and common sense.

Are we really going to get excited because illegal immigrants use welfare less
than the general population, when in fact they should not have been entitled to
these programs in the first place?

You gloss over the educational costs of illegal immigrants. But at an average
cost of about $5,000 a year per child, they mount up. Nacha Mendoza's five
children will cost the taxpayers $325,000 to educate from kindergarten through
high school. It will cost $172,000 to support Mendoza's family on welfare until
they are grown. And yet you say illegal immigrants aren't a burden.

Illegal aliens aren't like my great-grandparents, who came to America from
Germany and Greece. They learned the language and adapted to the culture around
them. They also had no more children than they could afford to feed and never
relied on welfare. This certainly is not the case today.

- Don Castle

San Jose

.......................................................................

GIVE THE ENVIRONMENT A CHRISTMAS PRESENT

The article, "Shopping fanatics out in force in hunt for day-after discounts"
(Local News, Dec. 27) prompted me to write. The article states: 400 people
waited in line at Macy's "to buy what most had ripped up and thrown out just 24
hours earlier - half-price wrapping paper."

I hope that while these "fanatic" shoppers wait in line they contemplate their
wasteful ways. I do not buy wrapping paper, ribbon or bows, yet each Christmas
there are beautifully wrapped gifts under my tree. I am one of those tacky
people who reuse their wrapping paper. Bows and ribbons too.

My wish for the new year is that next Christmas I won't be alone in reusing
wrapping paper and that this throwaway mentality will change to one of reduce,
reuse and recycle.

- Katie Bagley

Scotts Valley

.......................................................................

ARTICLE ON AIR SAFETY WORSENED FEAR OF FLYING

Talk about paranoia! Michelle Hancock's Dec. 26 article, "If emergency does
occur, travelers should know what to do," stated that in 1992, 33 people died
while taking commercial air travel as opposed to 39,235 people dying as a result
of automobile travel.

If the risk of dying in the air is so slim, why did the Mercury News devote
almost half of a page to air safety?

If Hancock really wanted to do the traveling public a favor, she could have told
us to bring crowbars into elevators, or maybe we should be wearing hard hats and
knee pads on the moving walkways!

In light of the fact that the feature article of the section was about fear of
flying, this article was irresponsible.

- Carlos Sabo

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 3, 1994 Thursday HOME EDITION

BORDER CRACKDOWN BEGINS INS ALSO WOULD EASE PATH FOR LEGAL ENTRY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: Washington


Attorney General Janet Reno unveiled a $540.5 million, two-year program today to
crack down on illegal immigration across the Mexican border and to ease the path
of legal immigrants to this country.

"This administration is committed to safeguarding America's proud history of
openness to newcomers," Reno said. "But we will not permit this cherished
tradition to be jeopardized by weakness in enforcing our immigration laws."

Flanked by six members of the California congressional delegation, including two
Republicans, she told a Justice Department news conference that she would add
1,010 Border Patrol agents by the end of 1995 to the 3,461 who now police the
2,000-mile border from San Diego to Brownsville, Texas.

The extra border agents, 500 of them to be hired and 510 to be shifted from desk
jobs, will be located at San Diego and at El Paso, Texas, where 65 percent of
illegal immigrants are currently caught.

Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Coronado, commended Reno for beginning to supply "the
resources for establishing a border for the first time." He said a total of
10,000 Border Patrol agents are needed along the Mexican border.

Immigration and Naturalization Commissioner Doris Meissner said the total need
would be re-evaluated after assessing the impact of the additional 1,010 agents.

"We have to close the back door . . . to keep the front door open," said Rep.
Romano Mazzoli, D-Ky., chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, who also
attended the announcement.

Of the money, $172.5 million has been appropriated for this budget year. The
remaining $368 million for fiscal 1995 is to be requested in President Clinton's
budget next Monday and would still have to be approved by Congress.

Reno's plan would double the number of Immigration and Naturalization Service
officers and immigration judges to clear a backlog of 300,000 applications for
political asylum. Now, only 45,000 applicants are processed each year.

The plan also called for $15 million in grants to community-based organizations
and schools for civics and language lessons for immigrants seeking to become
U.S. citizens. An additional $2.5 million would pay for a toll-free telephone
line to dispense information about how to obtain U.S. citizenship.

Other proposals would improve the security of so-called "green card" work
permits to make hiring of legal immigrants easier.

These proposals were praised immediately by the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Education Fund, which endorsed the overall plan. "The administration's plan
. . . would help millions of Latinos and other immigrants become fully
participating members of American society," the group said.

Other elements of the plan would supply Border Patrol agents with secure radios
and mobile infrared scopes, install five miles of lighting east of the San
Ysidro port of entry in California and five miles of fences to block entry onto
highways.

The administration would spend $55 million to identify and deport 20,000
additional criminal aliens each year by expanding computer capacity to identify
them in state prisons, holding in-prison hearings before their release and
deporting them as soon as their sentence is served. This program now is used in
California, Texas, New York, Florida and Illinois.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 3, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

BORDER CRACKDOWN BEGINS INS ALSO WOULD EASE PATH FOR LEGAL ENTRY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: Washington


Attorney General Janet Reno unveiled a $540.5 million, two-year program today to
crack down on illegal immigration across the Mexican border and to ease the path
of legal immigrants to this country.

"This administration is committed to safeguarding America's proud history of
openness to newcomers," Reno said. "But we will not permit this cherished
tradition to be jeopardized by weakness in enforcing our immigration laws."

Flanked by six members of the California congressional delegation, she told a
Justice Department news conference that she would add 1,010 Border Patrol agents
by the end of 1995 to the front lines along the 2,000-mile border from San Diego
to Brownsville, Texas.

Of those, 500 are to be hired and 510 are to be shifted from desk jobs among the
3,461 agents who now handle frontline and administrative work along the Mexican
border. The extra frontline agents will be stationed at San Diego and at El
Paso, Texas, where 65 percent of illegal immigrants are currently caught.

Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Coronado, commended Reno for beginning to supply "the
resources for establishing a border for the first time." He said a total of
10,000 Border Patrol agents are needed along the Mexican border.

Immigration and Naturalization Commissioner Doris Meissner said the total need
would be re-evaluated after assessing the impact of the additional 1,010 agents.

"We have to close the back door . . . to keep the front door open," said Rep.
Romano Mazzoli, D-Ky., chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, who also
attended the announcement.

Of the money, $172.5 million has been appropriated for this budget year. The
remaining $368 million for fiscal 1995 is to be requested in President Clinton's
budget next Monday and would still have to be approved by Congress.

Reno's plan would double the number of Immigration and Naturalization Service
officers and immigration judges to clear a backlog of 300,000 applications for
political asylum. Now, only 45,000 applicants are processed each year.

The plan also called for $15 million in grants to community-based organizations
and schools for civics and language lessons for immigrants seeking to become
U.S. citizens. An additional $2.5 million would pay for a toll-free telephone
line to dispense information about how to obtain U.S. citizenship.

Other proposals would improve the security of so-called "green card" work
permits to make hiring of legal immigrants easier.

These proposals were praised immediately by the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Education Fund, which endorsed the overall plan. "The administration's plan
. . . would help millions of Latinos and other immigrants become fully
participating members of American society," the group said.

Other elements of the plan would supply Border Patrol agents with secure radios
and mobile infrared scopes, install five miles of lighting east of the San
Ysidro port of entry in California and five miles of fences to block entry onto
highways.

The administration would spend $55 million to identify and deport 20,000
additional criminal aliens each year by expanding computer capacity to identify
them in state prisons, holding in-prison hearings before their release and
deporting them as soon as their sentence is served. This program now is used in
California, Texas, New York, Florida and Illinois.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 4, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

1,000 MORE GUARDS TO STOP ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CITIZENSHIP FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO
BE EASIER, RENO SAYS

BYLINE: JAMES R. CARROLL, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: Washington


The Clinton administration on Thursday launched a two-year, $540.5 million
program to battle illegal immigration across the U.S.-Mexico border, promising
to beef up the ranks of the Border Patrol, install more security fences and
lights and deport undocumented immigrants now in U.S. prisons.

Attorney General Janet Reno, who unveiled the program with a bipartisan
delegation of California lawmakers at her side, also announced plans to smooth
the way for legal immigrants to become U.S. citizens.

"This administration is committed to safeguarding America's proud history of
openness to newcomers," Reno said. "But we will not permit this cherished
tradition to be jeopardized by weakness in enforcing our immigration laws."

Gov. Pete Wilson said in a statement that the new program "is a hopeful sign
that the administration is serious about meeting its obligation to the states to
control illegal immigration where it starts -- at the border."

But the governor said the states still need financial help from Washington for
providing services to undocumented immigrants.

Some Hispanic organizations were cautious, saying one proposal to improve the
security of the green card work permit could lead to further discrimination
against legal residents.

"We are particularly concerned that the administration appears to be moving in a
direction which may eventually lead to the establishment of a national
identification card," said Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of
La Raza. Such a card, he said, "will fail to control undocumented migration and
promote massive discrimination."

However, Yzaguirre and Antonia Hernandez, president of the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF), said they backed the plan to
strengthen the Border Patrol.

Reno said the 3,461-agent Border Patrol would swell by an additional 1,010 by
the end of 1995 to handle border areas around San Ysidro and El Paso, Texas. Of
the additions, 500 are to be hired and 510 will be transferred from desk jobs.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein said that of an estimated 600 new agents who will be on
the job by the end of the year, about 430 will be assigned to the California
border, where the most illegal crossings occur.

For legal immigrants, the Immigration and Naturalization Service will hire more
judges to handle a logjam of political asylum cases and provide a toll- free
telephone number to tell how people can obtain U.S. citizenship. The Justice
Department also plans to give grants to schools and local organizations for
language and civics lessons for those who want to become citizens.

"The administration's plan to put the 'N' back into the INS is most
encouraging," said MALDEF's Hernandez. "It would help millions of Latinos and
other immigrants become fully participating members of American society."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: 'We will not permit this cherished tradition (of openness to newcomers)
to be jeopardized by weakness in enforcing our immigration laws. '
--Attorney General Janet Reno
940204 CA 3B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 7, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GARAMENDI SUPPORTS LIST OF RIGHTS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 219 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


Insurance Commissioner and gubernatorial candidate John Garamendi endorsed a
series of immigrant rights backed by Hispanic lawmakers and community groups.
"This is an extraordinarily dangerous issue. It can turn loose in our society
the rabid dog of racism," Garamendi said after meeting with lawmakers Saturday
at the Los Angeles offices of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund.

The four principles advocated by Proponents for Responsible Immigration Debate
and Education, or PRIDE, include:

* The right of U.S. citizenship for everyone born in the United States,
regardless of their parents' immigration status.

* Access to elementary and secondary education and emergency medical care for
all immigrants.

* Border enforcement remaining under civilian control and conducted in humane
fashion.

* Promoting democracy abroad and giving economic help to Mexico and other
countries is the best way to reduce illegal immigration.

PRIDE, formed in December, is seeking endorsements of its principles from all
California gubernatorial and U.S. Senate candidates. Gov. Pete Wilson last month
endorsed its ideas on border control and economic aid.

Coalition members plan to meet with California Treasurer Kathleen Brown, who is
expected to announce her bid for governor on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 7, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEEDED AT THE BORDER AGENTS GUARDING THE LINE, NOT POLITICIANS PEDDLING ONE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 415 words


WHEN the former governor of Arkansas knows more about dealing with illegal
immigration than the former mayor of San Diego, you have to cry for California.
The Clinton administration's new border initiative puts Gov. Pete Wilson and our
two senators to shame.

The $540 million-plus proposal would add 1,000 more Border Patrol agents,
upgrade computers and other equipment, and install new fences and detection
devices. For legal immigrants, the Immigration and Naturalization Service would
streamline asylum paperwork and encourage citizenship.

We've argued before that the border needs more agents and less election- year
posturing by California pols who would militarize the border, impose crossing
taxes, and deny schooling, citizenship and health care to the children of
undocumented immigrants.

Illegal immigration is a fact of life. The idea of completely securing the
2,000-mile southern border is an illusion. But we can deter illegal immigrants
by placing more agents at strategic crossings, which Clinton's plan would do at
San Diego and El Paso.

However, we're skeptical of two other points in the Clinton initiative:
deporting illegal immigrants now in U.S. prisons, and tougher enforcement of
laws against hiring undocumented workers.

Deporting prisoners sounds good, but the idea has more tangles than barbed wire.

American prosecutors aren't going to transfer a murderer, bank robber or rapist
if they think he'll be released too soon from a Mexican prison and then get back
across the border. Also, as civil libertarians point out, transferred prisoners
would lose their rights to appeal and parole under U.S. laws. A binational
appeals or parole board could resolve these issues, but it would cost millions
of dollars, wiping out most of the savings to U.S. taxpayers.

As for cracking down on employers who hire illegal workers, forget it. Study
after study has shown that employer sanctions don't even slow illegal
immigration. Worse, they have led to widespread discrimination against U.S.
Latinos by employers who'd rather hire somebody else than deal with the
verification paperwork. Get rid of employer sanctions.

With more money and manpower in the right places, the INS and Border Patrol can
become smarter, quicker and more humane. Pete Wilson and Senators Barbara Boxer
and Dianne Feinstein should take note: Bunker mentalities may win the resentment
vote, but dealing with illegal immigration takes brains, courage -- and
compassion.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 11, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP PROPOSES BORDER CRACKDOWN PLAN WOULD CHARGE THOSE ENTERING U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: Washington


A broad immigration plan offered Thursday by House Republicans would impose a
$1.50 fee on anyone entering the United States by land, add 6,000 Border Patrol
agents and build fences and ditches to deter illegal crossings.

The legislation also would require a tamperproof Social Security card for all
citizens, and would streamline asylum and deportation procedures.

The GOP measure, which comes a week after the Clinton administration announced
its own proposals to crack down on illegal immigration, was swiftly attacked by
some Hispanic and religious organizations.

"At a moment in which this country needs a rational debate on immigration
reform, the . . . (GOP) is instead giving us explosive rhetoric and legislation
which would increase discrimination against Americans and endanger the lives of
refugees," said Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza.
"We are not trying to boil anyone out of the melting pot," said Rep. David Levy
of New York, one of 13 Republicans at the Capitol news conference where the bill
was unveiled.

Instead, he said, Republicans are trying to seal the borders against those who
"view this as the land of the free lunch."

The task force's chairman, Texan Lamar Smith, said undocumented immigrants --
estimated at 4.8 million by Republicans and 3.5 million by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service -- are putting ever-greater burdens on taxpayers.

"We don't have to apologize for wanting to protect our borders," Smith said,
citing estimates that illegal immigrants cost taxpayers $7.6 billion annually.
The GOP plan would:

* Require the INS to build fences and ditches in areas of frequent illegal
crossings. San Diego already has a 14-mile steel fence and others are planned in
Arizona and New Mexico.

* Add 6,000 Border Patrol agents by late 1998 to the almost 4,000 the agency now
has. The Justice Department last week announced it would hire 500 new agents by
late 1995 and transfer 510 from desk jobs to front-line duty.

* Phase in over five years a tamperproof Social Security card that would be used
to verify employment eligibility.

* Set up new screening procedures allowing hearing officers at airports to turn
away asylum-seekers whose claims don't appear legitimate. Rep. Bill McCollum,
R-Fla., estimated that up to 70 percent of asylum-seekers would immediately be
turned away.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Thousand Oaks, shows a Washington news conference a copy
of a fake ID card he obtained.
940211 FR 5A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 12, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA BANS FOSTER CARE FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: Miami


Arguing that the federal government should bear the costs of illegal
immigration, Florida has begun denying foster care to immigrant children who are
in the state illegally.

Gov. Lawton Chiles, who has threatened to sue the federal government to recoup
immigration costs, told a commission Friday, "We've had enough," and repeated
demands that the federal government begin picking up the tab.

"Florida has opened its arms to people who seek a better life," Chiles told the
federal Commission on Immigration Reform. "It's time our government open its
eyes to unrealistic immigration policy."

The governor, surrounded by his top administrators, said the situation has
forced Florida, home to an estimated 350,000 undocumented immigrants, into
playing the villain.

Haitians and Cubans arrive steadily on Florida's shores by way of rafts, rickety
boats and even wind surfboards.

Chiles reminded the panel that the state is preparing a lawsuit against the
federal government to ask for reimbursement of money already spent on
immigrants.

The frustration surfaced last month with a state policy to bar undocumented
children abandoned by caretakers from becoming wards of the state. That would
also make them ineligible for benefits, such as state-funded room and board and
services ranging from medical care to psychiatric counseling.

As a result of the new policy, the state Department of Health and Rehabilitative
Services, which is responsible for taking care of abused juveniles, wants to
deny foster care to two abandoned teen-agers, a Guatemalan and a Haitian,
because they are illegal immigrants.

Lawyers for the youths said the agency used to provide foster care to
undocumented children regardless of their immigration status. Legal Services of
Greater Miami filed a lawsuit challenging the policy, which has been widely
criticized by immigrant advocacy groups.

"Unfortunately it creates a new underclass in society that cannot obtain any
form of relief and ultimately hurts the community in general, because without
support people like this are ultimately forced to turn to criminal activity,"
said Ira Kurzban, a Miami attorney specializing in immigration law.

Chiles told the nine-member panel, led by former Rep. Barbara Jordan, that the
state spends $1 billion a year on providing services to immigrants.

The state must deny foster care to illegal immigrants to pay for the 9,000 other
children in its care, said Jim Towey, secretary of the state Department of
Health and Rehabilitative Services.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The New York Times contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 9, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FLORIDA WINS FIGHT TO START DEPORTING ILLEGALS IN PRISON

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 129 words


Federal immigration officials agreed Friday to let Florida deport 500 to 1,000
illegal immigrants who are held in the state's crowded prisons. The agreement
between the state and the Immigration and Naturalization Service is the first of
its kind.

The inmates, serving time for non-violent offenses, could be headed for their
native countries by June 1. They are largely from Jamaica, Haiti and Colombia
and several European nations. None will be returned to Cuba because the United
States does not maintain diplomatic ties with Havana.

Officials in Florida, where inmates serve an average of 41 percent of their
sentences because of prison space shortage, welcomed the agreement. They said
$60 million a year is spent to keep illegal immigrants in prison.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               April 27, 1994 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY/AM EDITION

FREMONT WOMAN CHARGED IN IMMIGRATION FRAUD SCHEME

BYLINE: RAOUL V. MOWATT, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 578 words


A Fremont woman has been indicted in federal court for creating phony paperwork
in an attempt to dupe immigration officials into granting amnesty to at least
300 illegal immigrants in Northern California.

A grand jury Monday charged Emma Rosella D'Fiandra with eight counts of fraud
and two counts of possessing false documents in a plot that lasted from 1986
until 1991 and earned more than $1 million.

"It was a shopping center of immigration fraud," said Assistant U.S. Attorney
Steven Gruel in San Francisco. "It was possible on her part to get any documents
and back-date them to establish one's fraudulent stay in the United States."

The alleged scheme took advantage of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control
Act, which offered amnesty for illegal immigrants who lived in the United States
for 10 straight years before 1982, the indictment alleges.

D'Fiandra, 50, allegedly churned out fake back-dated receipts, airplane tickets
and tax returns to help immigrants contend they were eligible to eventually
become citizens.

D'Fiandra would cook those papers in a microwave oven and then dirty them to
make them appear older, Gruel said. She also claimed to have known immigrants
for years although she had just met them, Gruel said.

Once the resident of a swank $700,000 home in Fremont's Niles district,
D'Fiandra is currently imprisoned on other charges in a women's facility in
Chowchilla.

The alleged scam operated out of two businesses, D'Fiandra Legal Services and
Laemita Rosella Fiandra Law Offices. She filed between 300 and 1,200 phony
amnesty applications in INS offices in San Jose, Stockton, Salinas, Fresno and
San Francisco, Gruel said.

Gruel said it is unclear what might become of the illegal immigrants who sought
D'Fiandra's help. She allegedly claimed in amnesty applications that some
clients lived at her home on Tothero Place.

Applicants paid from $3,500 to $15,000 for the fake documents, Gruel said.
Authorities think she was starting similar operations in Reno and Phoenix.

D'Fiandra's 48-year-old brother, Carlos Castagnetto, also was charged with
signing false affidavits, Gruel said. He allegedly falsified his own application
for amnesty, swearing that he worked for a farm labor contractor that never
existed.

D'Fiandra also held classes for illegal immigrants on how to lie to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, falsely claiming that she once worked
there, Gruel said. In fact, she came to the country illegally from Peru in 1978,
Gruel said. She allegedly used more than 18 aliases and the Social Security
number of a dead man born in 1897.

Authorities learned of the alleged scheme in 1991, after noticing suspicious
patterns in many applications.

D'Fiandra fled to Florida after April 1991 searches of her home and business on
Stevenson Place revealed evidence of the plot, Gruel said. Among the items found
were counterfeit green cards, Social Security cards, birth and death
certificates from foreign countries and postage cancellation stamps from a
variety of countries used to back-date letters.

She was later arrested in Florida for passing bad checks and is serving a
sentence in Chowchilla for that crime, Gruel said. The prosecutor declined to
say why the indictment was just handed down.

D'Fiandra is facing a sentence of up to 50 years in prison and a $2.5 million
fine if convicted. Castagnetto is facing five years in prison and a $250,000
fine.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 11, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RELATIVES IDENTIFY VICTIMS OF CRASH THAT KILLED 12 IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING MAY BE
INVOLVED IN 500-MILE TRIP, AUTHORITIES SAY.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: San Bernardino


Families trickled into the coroner's office Thursday, fearing the worst yet
clinging to hope that their loved ones were not among the 12 immigrants killed
in a freeway crash.

A tearful Juan de Leon said he had identified the bodies of his brother-in- law,
Heber Penate, and a friend, Rigoberto Ordonez, from photographs at the San
Bernardino County Coroner's Office.

Penate and Ordonez were among a dozen people killed Wednesday when the compact
pickup they were riding in veered off Interstate 15 south of Barstow and slammed
into an irrigation ditch.

Eight other people jammed into the truck survived the crash, although three were
in critical condition Thursday. The ill-fated trip may have been an illegal
immigrant smuggling run that began Tuesday night 500 miles away in Nogales,
Ariz., authorities said.

"They feel real bad. They feel confused right now," de Leon said of Penate's and
Ordonez's families. "We never expected this."

Penate's sister, Marthe, left the coroner's office in tears. She declined to
speak to a reporter.

Penate had been invited to ride down to the border by Ordonez's cousin and the
truck's driver, Aidan Ordonez, to pick up immigrants and ferry them to Los
Angeles, de Leon said.

Rigoberto Ordonez had come from Guatemala and was among those picked up in
Nogales. Penate, an unemployed painter, had become the father of a baby girl on
Saturday, the day before he and Ordonez left for Los Angeles, de Leon said.

Aidan Ordonez faced 12 counts of vehicular manslaughter, the California Highway
Patrol said. He was hospitalized in critical condition at Loma Linda University
Medical Center.

De Leon said he did not know whether Aidan Ordonez regularly drove migrants from
the border to Los Angeles. He and Marthe Penate had come to the coroner's office
after recognizing Penate's watch and clothing in news footage of the accident
scene.

The day ended joyfully for Benito Lopez, 36, who came with his three young
children to find out if his wife, Odilia, was among the dead. After waiting
anxiously for an hour, he walked out and announced, "She isn't here, thank God."
He later learned his wife, who was traveling from Guatemala, was still in
Mexico.

Crash survivor Alejandro Henriquez, 24, of El Salvador, said the group left
Nogales at 7 p.m. Tuesday for Los Angeles, where some hoped to catch plane
flights.

Seven men and five women were killed in the 5:50 a.m. crash, including a
pregnant woman. None had identification, said CHP Lt. Don Pitts.

The group's exact route from Arizona was not known. But new Border Patrol
tactics like a human blockade in El Paso, Texas, and a 14-mile steel fence in
San Diego are pushing border crossers elsewhere, such as the Arizona desert,
officials said.

In time, Arizona and New Mexico also will have fences to separate towns like
Nogales, Naco and Douglas from often larger Mexican cities just across the
border.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Follow-up:

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 16, 1994 Sunday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

CLASH OVER IMMIGRATION 20 PROTESTERS CONFRONT DAY LABORERS, SUPPORTERS IN MTN.
VIEW

BYLINE: HOLLY A. HEYSER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 479 words


About 20 protesters against illegal immigration clashed briefly with immigration
supporters and Hispanic day laborers Saturday morning in Mountain View as the
anti-immigration group waved signs saying "No Illegals" and "Hiring Illegals Is
a Crime."

The confrontations were non-violent, and illegal- immigration protesters from
the Save Mountain View Coalition eventually moved to another street corner,
police said.

Afterward, signs saying "Abajos con los Racistas" (Down with racists) and "Down
with the INS" remained at the entrance to San Antonio Shopping Center on El
Camino Real -- well known as a place where laborers wait for potential employers
to offer them one-day construction and gardening jobs.

It was the same place where the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
arrested 40 Hispanic men last summer at the prompting of the Save Mountain View
Coalition, which was founded by Mountain View resident and former school board
member Kenneth Record.

After the confrontation Saturday morning, nine illegal-immigration protesters
remained at the corner of California Street and Ortega Avenue. They waved signs
and shouted at motorists, urging them to honk in support of their cause. Some,
including a Santa Clara County Transportation Agency bus, honked.

People who stopped were invited to sign a statewide initiative targeted for the
November ballot that would make illegal immigrants ineligible for public social
services, public health care and public education. Seven people had signed by
11:30 a.m.

The campaign to collect at least 357,000 signatures kicked off Tuesday in Marin
County. Bette Hammond, Northern California coordinator for the signature drive,
joined the Mountain View protesters Saturday to support their fight against what
she called "deteriorating conditions in their neighborhood because of illegal
immigration." Hammond is the founder of the Novato-based STOP IT (Stop The
Out-of-control Problems of Immigration Today.

In response to laborers' accusations that the Mountain View group is racist,
Hammond said, "This is not a racist issue -- it's a legal issue. As Harold
Ezell, co-author of the initiative said, 'Legal immigration is the lifeblood of
our nation. Illegal immigration cannot be tolerated anymore.' " Ezell is former
western regional commissioner of the INS.

One of the protesters shouted to motorists and passers-by, "It's not the color
of your skin -- it's the color of your papers."

The state legislative analyst and the director of finance estimate that the
initiative would save state and local governments more than $100 million by
withholding health and social services for illegal immigrants. They said school
districts probably would spend $10 million annually to verify the legal status
of students, parents and guardians, and the potential savings to public schools
is unknown.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version ran P. 5B Morning Final Edition

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 5, 1994 Saturday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

MTN. VIEW SPLIT ON ILLEGAL LABORERS SOME SUPPORT THE INS RAIDS ON EL CAMINO

BYLINE: MELODY PETERSEN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 511 words


An INS raid that led to the arrest of 18 Hispanic workers Thursday has rekindled
tensions in Mountain View between those who want to drive the illegal day
laborers out of the city and those who say the men are just trying to earn a
living.

On one side is the Save Mountain View Coalition, which sent a petition to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service signed by 400 Mountain View residents.
Its members demand even more raids along El Camino Real, where men gather each
morning looking for jobs as gardeners and painters.

"We don't want them there," said Kenneth Record, the group's founder. The hiring
site is acting as a "magnet" for more illegal immigrants, he said.

On the other side are advocates for immigrants and concerned Mountain View
residents who say the men are just trying to support their families.

"By standing in the street, they're not hurting anybody," said resident Reynaldo
Herrera. "Why don't we work together and try to come up with a solution instead
of hating each other?"

The Thursday morning arrests were the second INS raid since July along the busy
street.

About 20 INS special agents and U.S. Border Patrol officers took part in the
9:30 a.m. raid, said Joseph Brandon, chief of INS investigations in San
Francisco. The Mountain View and Los Altos police departments also helped during
the raid by controlling traffic at the corner of El Camino Real and San Antonio
Road, he said.

Those arrested included 10 men from Mexico, five from Guatamala and three from
El Salvador, Brandon said. Eight of the Mexicans asked to be taken back to
Mexico, he said. The other men requested that a judge hear their case. Bail was
set at $5,000 each.

Last month, the Save Mountain View Coalition -- which was founded last year with
the goal of preventing the city "from becoming a Third World outpost" for cheap
labor -- sent the INS a petition that called for more raids on illegal day
workers, Record said.

About 20 protesters from the coalition also demonstrated along El Camino Real,
waving signs saying "no illegals" and "hiring illegals is a crime."

Last July, the INS arrested 40 day laborers after coalition members cruised the
street, snapped photographs of the men and sent them to the INS.

Although Brandon had not seen the coalition's petition, he said the INS had
received many calls from businesses along El Camino. Businesses complain the men
loiter in front of their stores, scare away customers and urinate in the bushes.

Also, women have called to complain that when they stopped their cars along El
Camino Real, eager day laborers have approached them and even jumped in their
cars, Brandon said.

Advocates of the day workers in Mountain View suggest that a center for the day
workers could be created to get the men away from the fronts of businesses.
Employers would go to the center instead of picking the men up along the street.
Such a center exists in Brea in Southern California. Other communities have
discussed building them.

But Record's coalition vows to fight any such plan.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version ran on page 4B of the Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 3, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ENDURING ABUSE TO GET LEGAL RESIDENCY;
IMMIGRANT WOMEN HOSTAGES TO HUSBANDS

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1011 words


When the beatings began, she felt there was no choice but to endure the agony.

For two years, the 43-year-old Japanese immigrant stayed with her abusive
husband in San Francisco, fearing she would be deported if she left him.

Her fears were well-founded. Under immigration law, her husband -- a U.S.
citizen -- was the only person who could sponsor her for permanent residency
status. So she suffered through the torture and rapes until her husband finally
filed her application.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, realizing her danger, approved
it seven months later.

For three years, women's advocates have tried to change the fact that abusive
spouses can wield immigration law as a weapon to hold undocumented mates
hostage. Now, legislative support finally is mounting.

This month, proposals that would take power away from abusive partners by
allowing battered mates to file petitions for permanent residency themselves
will go before a Senate committee and then on to the full Senate.

"These women live in life-threatening conditions. Without this law, these women
will have no access to justice," said Leni Marin, senior program specialist with
the Family Violence Prevention Fund, a San-Francisco-based public policy
institute that has chronicled cases such as the one above. "I think our senators
and representatives are hearing the stories and will make the right decisions
when called upon."

The immigration provisions are part of the proposed Violence Against Women Act,
which calls for tougher penalties for federal sex offenses and more than $300
million for various programs to combat crimes against women.

The House of Representatives in November voted 421-0 to approve the act with the
protections for immigrant women. The San Jose-based Asian Law Alliance, the San
Francisco-based Asian Law Caucus and the Family Violence Prevention Fund, which
have lobbied for the changes, hope the Senate will accept the immigration
protections in the House version.

"The fact that Congress is looking at this is a positive step," said Richard
Konda, an Asian Law Alliance staff attorney. "We've seen enough women in this
predicament to know this would do a lot of good."

Some keep quiet

No comprehensive study has been done yet to determine how many immigrant women
suffer in situations covered by the legislation. What numbers do exist, women's
advocates say, don't reflect the extent of the problem because so many women
refuse to acknowledge their predicament because of cultural stigmas. Language
barriers can be another obstacle.

A recent national study by the Family Violence Prevention Fund found more than
90 cases in which undocumented immigrant women married to U.S. citizens were
victims of severe domestic violence, many for as long as 15 years.

And a 1990 study by the Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and Services
in San Francisco turned up more disturbing results. Of 400 undocumented
immigrant women surveyed in the Bay Area, 35 percent of one ethnic group and 25
percent of another reported they had been victims of domestic violence.

Saving women's lives

"If this becomes law, this will save a lot of women's lives," Marin said. "Right
now, not the police, not anyone can force a husband to file for his wife's
permanent residency. It has to be the law that does it."

The legislation would help only those people already eligible to remain legally
in this country because they are married to a citizen.

As it stands, immediately after a couple are married, the partner who is a
citizen can petition for permanent residency for the undocumented spouse. Six
months to a year later, the immigration service will interview them.

If they pass that first hurdle, the undocumented spouse is granted only a
two-year residency to ensure the marriage is not merely one of convenience.
Before the second year ends, the immigration service will interview the couple
again. If the INS recognizes the couple's marriage as legitimate, the
undocumented spouse is granted permanent legal status.

Law amended

In 1990, the immigration law was amended so that a partner who already has
passed that first hurdle can bypass the second interview if the other spouse
later refuses to cooperate. Instead, he or she can apply for a waiver that would
give permanent residency.

Women's advocates say that change alone has helped a great number of battered
women who often found themselves separated or divorced from abusive husbands
after receiving only their temporary residency.

As yet, though, the law has done nothing to help those women whose husbands
never file the paperwork in the first place. For these women, the choice
remains: barbarous marriages or deportation.

"We have clients who try to gauge just how much they can put up with to stay in
a marriage to get their legal status," said Donna Rubiano, an Asian Law Alliance
staff attorney. "And this law would empower women to break away from their
abusive sponsors."
PROTECTING WIVES FROM ABUSE

The Violence Against Women Act would:

(box)Allow an immigrant woman trapped in an abusive marriage to file her own
petition for permanent residency if she can demonstrate battering or extreme
mental cruelty before the third year of the marriage. Women's advocates say
domestic violence can easily be documented if a battered woman calls the police,
seeks a protective order or goes to a shelter. For women married for more than
three years, no documentation of abuse is required.

(box)Prevent an abusive husband from withdrawing a visa petition without giving
his wife an opportunity to demonstrate abuse and the chance to continue the
immigration process without her husband's consent.

(box)Give a woman the opportunity to get a work permit to support herself and
her children so she could leave her abusive husband and become economically
independent.

(box)Extend federal civil rights protection to undocumented victims of a
gender-based felony such as rape or wife-beating.

Source: Carolyn Jung -- Mercury News Staff Writer

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Additional information attached to the end of this story

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

              January 6, 1994 Thursday SANTA CRUZ/MONTEREY EDITION

YOUTH LEADER GETS MAY 25 DEPORTATION HEARING

BYLINE: PAUL ROGERS, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 364 words


Marciano Cruz, who helped coordinate city anti-gang and anti-drug programs in
Santa Cruz's Beach Flats neighborhood until he was forced to resign over
immigration problems, will learn in May whether he will be deported to Mexico.
On Wednesday in San Francisco Immigration Court, Judge Betty Stockton set May 25
as the date for Cruz's deportation hearing.

The judge will decide then whether Cruz, 31, may remain in the United States
while his application for residency is pending.

A former gang member who served time in prison for a 1986 burglary conviction,
Cruz gained the respect of the largely Hispanic Beach Flats community -- and
many city leaders -- by teaching children about the pitfalls of crime through
recounting his own experiences.

Part-time playground job

Beginning in June 1990, Cruz had worked part time as a senior playground leader
with the Santa Cruz Parks and Recreation Department, overseeing the after-school
Kids Klub program in Beach Flats for children 6 to 12.

He resigned March 5 after officials at the state Employment Development
Department notified Santa Cruz City Hall that Cruz's temporary visa had expired.

In a show of support Wednesday, Santa Cruz Mayor Scott Kennedy joined Cruz and
his family at the hearing. Other Santa Cruz leaders have written letters to
immigration officials on his behalf.

"They recognize he's a very deserving person who has turned his life around,"
said Cruz's attorney, Mike Mehr of Santa Cruz. "He's a community asset."

Wife supports family

Cruz was born in Mexico and first came to the United States in 1980. His wife,
April, a security guard, and two children are U.S. citizens. Her wages now
support the family, Mehr said.

Mehr said Cruz will apply for a temporary work permit and hopes to get his old
job back.

"He left in good standing," said Erwin Young, Santa Cruz personnel director. "If
he has the appropriate documents, I don't see a problem with it."

Cruz will apply for permanent residency later this year at the U.S. Consulate in
Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. If INS officials grant the "green card," Cruz then will
have to wait three years to apply to become a U.S. citizen, Mehr said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 17, 1994 Monday STOCK FINAL EDITION

118 CHINESE BOAT PEOPLE DEPORTED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: Washington


The government sent 118 Chinese boat people back to their homeland today, the
largest group returned to China since the United States began deporting the
refugees in November.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said the Chinese nationals had been
smuggled into the United States illegally. The group left early this morning on
a charter flight from Bakersfield, accompanied by six INS officers and a Public
Health Service officer.

Officials said they have now deported 134 Chinese nationals who attempted to
enter the United States with the aid of smugglers.

The officials said the Chinese were given a hearing before an immigration judge
and an opportunity to be represented by counsel. They also were told they could
appeal before being deported.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    February 8, 1994 Tuesday STREET EDITION

MORE CUBANS GET IN THROUGH BACK DOOR: PUERTO RICO

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: San Juan, Puerto Rico


Fifty-six more Cubans took advantage of a backdoor route into the United States,
landing on a remote U.S. island and forcing immigration officials to ferry them
to Puerto Rico.

All were expected to receive asylum in the latest case emphasizing the different
treatment that refugees from Fidel Castro's communist state get from those
fleeing political and economic turmoil elsewhere in the world.

The Cubans apparently had flown from Havana to the Dominican Republic, then paid
a boat owner to take them illegally on Monday to Mona Island, about halfway
across the channel that separates the Dominican Republic from Puerto Rico.

By late that afternoon, immigration officials had arranged for the Cubans to be
flown by helicopter to Puerto Rico.

It was the largest Cuban group to take this route, traveled mainly by illegal
Dominican immigrants, said Mike Wimberly, agent-in-charge of the border patrol
post. Unlike the Cubans, nearly all of whom are guaranteed U.S. residency under
a Cold War act of Congress, Dominicans are usually shipped back home the next
day.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 24, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

SSI 'MENTAL CASE' FRAUD UNRAVELS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: Washington


An Indochinese refugee who went undercover to investigate welfare fraud told
Congress today that unscrupulous intermediaries, translators and crooked doctors
are helping healthy immigrants qualify for federal disability benefits.

"Everybody but the taxpayer makes money on the deal," said the informant, who
testified behind a screen amid heavy security because of threats on his life.

According to today's testimony before the House Ways and Means subcommittees on
oversight and human resources, thousands of immigrants are faking mental
illness, with the help of intermediaries and translators, to qualify for the
Supplemental Security Income program.

Rep. J.J. Pickle, D-Texas and the chairman of the oversight subcommittee,
estimates the cost to taxpayers in the millions of dollars.

According to investigators, abuses of the SSI program are national in scope and
may be growing. The schemes involve translators, attorneys, clinics, drivers and
storefront businesses that help refugees and other legal immigrants apply for
SSI benefits.

Under the law, SSI pays disability benefits to poor people who can't work
because they have fatal or long-term disabling conditions. Of the 6 million
disabled and elderly recipients of SSI, 601,000 are not citizens.

The Social Security Administration provides SSI benefits to qualified refugees
and other legal immigrants. No application fee is required. It is a misdemeanor
to accept a fee to assist or represent someone seeking Social Security benefits
without the agency's prior approval.

But the subcommittee says that is just what is happening with some of the
intermediaries, who market their services to immigrants, sometimes in foreign-
language advertisements. Some recruit their customers in overseas refugee camps.

Investigators say the intermediaries help and sometimes encourage immigrants to
fill out applications for disability benefits and refer them to physicians who
will certify the immigrants are too sick to work.

They also may translate for the immigrants at examinations with physicians or
during interviews with Social Security.

The intermediaries may coach the immigrants to fake symptoms of mental illness,
retardation or depression, or they may tell the applicants to wear their clothes
upside down, wet their pants, spit or claim headaches, stomachaches or other
problems resulting from stress or from being in Southeast Asian prison camps. In
some cases, the applicants appear to be drugged when they are examined.

The immigrants pay the intermediaries a fee, generally $2,500 to $3,000, or a
portion of their lump-sum payments from SSI. Benefits are retroactive to the
date a person applies for assistance, so many recipients collect an initial
payment of several thousand dollars.

Once eligible for SSI, which pays a maximum monthly benefit of $446, recipients
also qualify for Medicaid and may receive a state supplement and food stamps.

Allegations of abuses involving translators were initially concentrated in
several Southeast Asian communities in Southern California. But the Department
of Health and Human Services has received similar complaints from around the
country and involving other nationalities, including Armenians and Russians,
according to a Dec. 10 letter to Pickle from HHS Secretary Donna Shalala.

Pickle said he believes thousands of SSI recipients got on the rolls using such
schemes, and thousands more have applications pending.

"The U.S. Treasury has already paid out millions to these SSI recipients and
will be paying millions more to them every month, unless some effective steps
are taken," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 24, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'FAKE' DISABLED IMMIGRANTS REPORTED HEARING SET TO PROBE WELFARE-ABUSE SCHEMES

BYLINE: JENNIFER DIXON, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 502 words

DATELINE: Washington


Unscrupulous intermediaries have coached thousands of immigrants to fake mental
illness and retardation to qualify for federal disability benefits,
congressional investigators say.

The cost to taxpayers is in the millions of dollars, said Rep. J.J. "Jake"
Pickle, D-Texas, chairman of the House Ways and Means subcommittee on oversight.

According to the subcommittee, the fraudulent schemes involve translators,
attorneys or storefront businesses that help refugees and other legal immigrants
apply for monthly cash benefits under the Supplemental Security Income program.
Under the law, SSI pays disability benefits to poor people who can't work
because they have fatal or long-term disabling conditions. Of the 6 million
disabled and elderly recipients on SSI, 601,000 are non-citizens.

The federal government provides benefits to qualified refugees and other legal
immigrants and no fee is required to apply. It is a misdemeanor to charge a fee
to assist or represent someone seeking Social Security benefits without the
agency's approval.

But the subcommittee said that's what is happening with some of the
intermediaries, who market their services to immigrants, sometimes in foreign-
language advertisements. Some recruit their customers in refugee camps overseas.

Investigators said the intermediaries help and sometimes encourage the
immigrants to fill out applications for disability benefits and refer them to
physicians who will certify the immigrants are too sick to work.

They also may translate for the immigrants at examinations with physicians or at
interviews with the Social Security Administration, which runs SSI.

The intermediaries may coach the immigrants to fake symptoms of mental illness,
retardation or depression, or tell the applicants to wear their clothes upside
down, wet their pants, spit, claim headaches, stomachaches or other problems
blamed on stress or from being in Southeast Asian prison camps. In some cases,
the applicants appear to be drugged when they are examined.

The immigrants pay the intermediaries a fee, generally $2,500 to $3,000, or a
portion of their lump-sum payment from SSI. Benefits are retroactive to the date
a person applies for assistance, so many recipients collect an initial payment
of several thousand dollars.

Once eligible for SSI, which pays a maximum monthly benefit of $446, recipients
also qualify for Medicaid and may receive a state supplement and food stamps.

The oversight subcommittee, which will conduct a hearing today on this kind of
welfare abuse, says the problem is national in scope and may be growing.

Allegations of abuses involving translators were initially concentrated in
several Southeast Asian communities in Southern California. But the Department
of Health and Human Services has received similar complaints from around the
country and involving other nationalities, including Armenians and Russians,
according to a Dec. 10 letter to Pickle from HHS Secretary Donna Shalala.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 5, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEWSPAPER: DRUG MONEY FUNDS AIDID

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: Vancouver, British Columbia


Somalian warlord Mohammed Farah Aidid is bankrolling his operations with
Canadian welfare payments and proceeds from drug trafficking, according to
Canadian intelligence reports published Friday by the Vancouver Sun.

"Sources report Aidid funding is derived from two sources, namely Canadian
welfare and drug trafficking," the newspaper quoted one government report as
saying.

"Apparently fields of marijuana and poppies have been planted in the
agriculturally fertile area known as the 'death triangle' around Baidoa," it
said.

Aidid is the most powerful of the rival warlords fighting for control of
Somalia. His supporters were accused of killing 23 United Nations peacekeepers
last summer, and Aidid battled the United Nations for four months until last
October, when President Clinton ordered a withdrawal of U.S. forces from the
war-torn country by March 31.

The Canadian government announced in October that it was investigating claims
that bogus Somalian refugees in Canada were sending welfare payments back to the
African nation to buy weapons. Immigration officials are also investigating
Aidid's wife and children, who live in Canada, for violations of immigration law
and Aidid's wife for possible welfare fraud.

The Vancouver Sun obtained three reports by federal immigration intelligence
investigators under freedom of information laws after a four- month court
battle.

The report said Aidid had invested $1.25 million in drug proceeds in California
real estate in Burbank and Diamond Bar. Records show Aidid's former wife and two
sons own at least four properties in the Los Angeles suburbs. But Aidid's name
is not on the title to the properties, and most of the houses owned by his
family have large outstanding loan balances.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer E.A. Torriero contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 8, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

KNUCKLE-HEAD SEN. ALAN SIMPSON OUGHT TO LEAVE LEGAL IMMIGRANTS ALONE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 260 words


THERE'S enough misunderstanding about immigration without a key U.S. senator
adding to the confusion.

Republican Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming wants to reduce legal immigration by
875,000, or 25 percent, over the next five years. He believes America can't
afford to absorb that many newcomers. He says many immigrants are attracted by
generous public assistance in states like California.

If this sounds like the argument against illegal immigration, it is. The tragedy
of the immigration panic is that it lumps together all immigrants, legal and
undocumented, and refugees.

"Why wouldn't a refugee want to go to California?" Simpson asks. "It's the money
you give them in California that keeps them there."

Simpson's annual reduction of175,000 would break down like this: 75,000 people
who want to rejoin family members; 45,000 with special job skills; and 55,000
others based on a formula for ethnic and racial diversity.

These are industrious, motivated people, the same newcomers who have revived
downtowns in San Jose and Los Angeles and have created jobs that otherwise
wouldn't exist. The nation not only can absorb them, it needs them. If Simpson
has measured what legal immigrants take in public assistance against the value
of their economic productivity and taxes paid, we'd like to see his arithmetic.
Simpson is co-author of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act. He has the
power to get legislation passed. He should do America a favor by focusing on the
problems of illegal immigration and leave legal immigrants alone.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 18, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS IN CRASH TO STAY;
FOR NOW

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 94 words


Eight Central American immigrants who survived one of California's worst highway
crashes won't be deported, at least for now, an immigration official in Los
Angeles said Thursday. All would be allowed time to recover from their injuries,
and some may have to stay in this country if they are needed as material
witnesses in a federal smuggling case, said Rico Cabrera, spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Twelve people, most from El Salvador,
were killed March 9 when their pickup ran off Interstate 15 in the Mojave Desert
near Barstow.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 20, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SLOWLY, JAPAN OPENS UP

BYLINE: S.L. Bachman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 536 words


SOME Americans worried about immigration are looking at Japan for guidance. With
its extremely tight rules for permanent residence, Japanese society is
relatively peaceful, which some attribute to a homogeneous population. Ergo,
tight immigration rules work. Right?

Not so fast.

Japan's cultural homogeneity probably helps cut down on the kind of social
disruption caused by the frequent or sudden arrival of new groups in other
countries. Yet it is not a good model for the United States. There's no way,
short of Bosnian-style "ethnic cleansing," that the United States can turn back
the clock and erase the diversity of the U.S. population.

Japanese sometimes blame the variety of races and cultures in America for our
social problems. They may be right, in part. But Japan's historic homogeneity
poses its own problems.

* Japan has a significant minority of Koreans, the legacy of Japan's 1910-1945
colonial rule of Korea. The Koreans, rivals of the Japanese for centuries, have
remained essentially unassimilated in Japanese society.

Koreans who still hold Korean nationality - it is very hard to become a
naturalized Japanese citizen - are often discriminated against in Japanese
society. Young Korean-Japanese have a harder time than their Japanese classmates
finding jobs. The nearly 700,000 Koreans are marginalized in the economy into
small businesses and one lucrative but unrespected segment of the economy:
pachinko, a form of legalized gambling.

* Japan's historic inexperience with other societies and cultures has dulled
sensitivity to others. It fed the racism and feeling of national superiority
that led Japan to colonize half of Asia - brutally - in the years leading up to
World War II.

Today Japan is slowly opening up. Foreigners have come to Japan as traders,
journalists (I was one of those), English teachers, and low-wage laborers. Yet
inexperience with other cultures continues to pose problems.

* Japan today has about 300,000 illegal immigrants, most of whom do the dirty,
dangerous and low-wage jobs that prosperous Japanese don't want any more. During
the 1980s, the government turned a blind eye to the influx, because the
immigrants have allowed many marginal businesses to stay afloat.

Last year, the number of foreigners in Japan exceeded 1 percent of the country's
124 million population. But the government, under pressure from an economic
recession, has stopped ignoring the inflow and has begun rounding up and
deporting undocumented foreign laborers.

Among those who remain, illegal status makes it hard for immigrants to complain
when things go wrong. If an industrial worker's hand gets mangled in a machine,
can he go to a doctor for help? Collect damages from the employer? Technically
yes, but illegal workers often won't try for fear that they'll get thrown out of
the country.

There is also a huge, exploitive trade in women for prostitution. The yakuza
(Japanese mafia) regularly hire poor women from the Philippines and Thailand to
work as "dancers" in Japan. The women borrow money to pay for their air fare.
After reaching Japan, yakuza confiscate their passports, and the newcomers are
forced into prostitution to work off their debts.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IMMIGRATION: NEW BEGINNINGS
AN OCCASIONAL SERIES
COMMENTARY
See also related stories on this page

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 22, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMERICA CAN'T PROVIDE FOR THOSE ALREADY HERE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 272 words


I can agree with only one small portion of your editorial "Knuckle-head: Sen.
Alan Simpson ought to leave legal immigrants alone" (March 8), and that is:
"There's enough misunderstanding about immigration."

Your editorial increased the misunderstanding. It portrayed Sen. Simpson's
proposed reductions as a radical step. In reality, his legislation would reduce
the number of legal immigrants the United States receives from the highest in
the world to a number that is still the highest in the world.

Nowhere does the Mercury News tell readers what it thinks the appropriate number
of immigrants should be. If the current annual level of 1 million is so
wonderful, why stop there? Why not 2 million or 10 million? Why not 100 million?
There are certainly that many people and more who would love to come to the
United States.

Mass immigrationists often speak of America's "tradition" of immigration. From
1930 to 1970 immigration to the United States averaged 180,000 per year. That is
a tradition with which I could live.

If there is any criticism to be directed at the Simpson proposal, it is that its
annual limit of 500,000 is far too high. A reasonable, rational limit would be
200,000, which is slightly more than the number of people who emigrate from the
country each year.

It is increasingly evident that current record levels of immigration are placing
a burden on our environment, economy and schools. Let us first provide decent
jobs, housing and education for those already here before we try to absorb
another million per year.

-- Ric Oberlink

Californians

for Population Stabilization

Sacramento

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: STEVE BENSON -- ARIZONA REPUBLIC
940322 ED 6B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 23, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION IS NO LONGER A HOT ISSUE, EXPERTS SAY

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1274 words


Originally fueled by public outrage over the nation's leaky borders and by what
critics call election-year grandstanding, the legislative drive to end a broad
range of immigration abuses is sputtering.

To be sure, say immigration lobbyists and congressional sources, something will
be enacted this year to help salve public fears about the foreign-born. More
than 100 measures are kicking around Congress - and there are two California
initiatives - that would do everything from bolster the borders with new ditches
and fences to withhold citizenship from the U.S.-born children of illegal
immigrants.

But whatever ultimately is passed, these analysts say, won't be nearly the balm
many people had hoped for, nor the bane many others had feared.

"I think we'll get something, but I think it's likely to be very modest and
inadequate," said George High, who directs the Washington-based Center for
Immigration Studies, which favors more restrictive policies. "Last October and
November, you would have thought it (major immigration reform) was virtually at
hand. You certainly don't have that feeling today."

Cecilia Munoz, a pro-immigrant lobbyist with the National Council of La Raza, a
civil rights group in Washington, agreed.

"We've seen some signs that Congress is willing to act in a responsible manner,"
she said. "It (immigration) may have reached its peak as an issue."

They and other experts cite a number of factors for the change.

The brightened economy is helping calm fears about the economic impact of
immigrants, for one thing. And Congress is focused these days on other problems,
such as crime, health care and welfare reform. Moreover, there are concerns that
some proposals - such as creating a new identification card - might cost too
much for the feeble federal budget.

Another factor is that immigration policy is complicated and affects relatively
few states. So it's tough to keep most lawmakers interested. Also, the Clinton
administration has proposed changes for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service that some people think will lessen the need for legislative reforms.

And a lot of lawmakers are reluctant to suggest major changes until the
Commission on Immigration Reform, which Congress set up several years ago to
study the subject, issues its initial recommendations in the fall.

That's not to say immigration won't be important in the coming months. Gov. Pete
Wilson, whose complaints about the financial impact of illegal residents on
California helped feed the nation's furor over immigration last year, isn't
likely to let the matter die, nor are a lot of other candidates running for
state and national elections this November.

Moreover, another sensational event involving the foreign-born - such as last
year's bombing of New York's World Trade Center - could reheat the immigration
debate considerably.

But for now, here's what some experts think is and isn't likely to be passed:
Chances are good:

Congress last year approved money to hire about 350 Border Patrol agents. And
this year, it's expected to OK a Clinton plan to put 1,010 more agents on the
border, through new hires and shuffling INS personnel.

Many experts think the Border Patrol will be beefed up even more. Measures
introduced this month by nine California Democrats would add 2,000 agents, a
Republican bill seeks 6,000 more and another wants nearly 10,000 new agents.

More money for border ditches and fences also is likely. And there may be
support for a $1 to $3 border-crossing fee.

The process by which foreigners seek political asylum probably will be changed,
although how much is hotly disputed.

Under the ongoing INS reorganization, the process already is being streamlined.
But there's also much support for legislation that would let asylum officers at
ports immediately exclude applicants who lack credible claims. Currently,
applicants can stay in the country for months until their cases are heard, and
the INS frequently loses track of them.

Tougher penalties also are likely for immigrants who commit crimes. Proposals
include making those who smuggle immigrants subject to federal wiretaps and
racketeering laws.

Facing a fight:

Many would-be immigration reformers say it's essential to have a single,
fraud-proof identification card to easily determine who's in the country
legally. Currently, immigrants can use 29 different documents to apply for work,
and the glut of counterfeit IDs is a major problem.

However, the number of acceptable IDs already is being whittled to 16 under the
INS shake-up, and there are plans to cut it more. Some people think that may
reduce the need for Congress to pass an ID law.

In addition, the Commission on Immigration Reform recently heard disquieting
testimony on the feasibility of creating a national ID card, said commission
member Warren Leiden, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

"Secret Service and vital statistics experts said we could spend $2 billion to
$4 billion a year and in about 10 years we'd have a very secure national
identification system," Leiden said. "And about three to four weeks later it
(the card) would be available in counterfeit form."

National databank

Even if there was a hard-to-fake ID card, experts say, birth certificates needed
to get one could be faked unless a highly sophisticated nationwide databank of
birth and death records was set up.

Prospects seem slim:

One of the most controversial ideas pushed by Gov. Wilson and included in
several congressional bills would deny citizenship to U.S.-born children whose
parents are here illegally.

Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., initially put the proposal in his reform bill. But he
dropped the idea this month because "there were some real objections raised to
the citizenship provision," said his spokeswoman, Susan McCue. Among other
things, she said, the idea probably is unconstitutional.

Reid and Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., who has a lot of clout on immigration
matters, also seek cuts in the number of legal immigrants each year. But
Congress is so preoccupied with illegal residents that it seems disinclined to
dicker over those here legally. Nor is it likely to heed Wilson's plea for major
federal aid to states with many illegal residents, though some small federal
grants are possible.

As Wilson has asked, some congressional proposals would make it harder for
illegals to get non-emergency public health care and attend public schools.

But many people call such ideas heartless and unworkable because local public
officials often have no easy way to determine the legal status of those they
serve. And two weeks ago, a proposal by Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R- Huntington
Beach, to make schools report how many illegal students they have was
overwhelmingly defeated.

That's no surprise to former Los Angeles County Supervisor Pete Schabarum. He's
pushing one of two California initiatives that also would limit illegal
immigrants' use of public schools and hospitals, for example, by forcing public
agencies to do a better job of checking their clients' legal status.

While it's iffy whether either initiative can get enough signatures to qualify
for the ballot, Schabarum figures the chances of passing such things in
Washington are even worse - despite all the recent bills.

"There's a lot of lip service" about the need to reform immigration policy, he
said, especially among politicians facing election in the fall. But ultimately,
he added, echoing the sentiments of many others, "I have no hope or expectation
that Congress is going to deal with the issue."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 24, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE ALLOWS NIGERIAN WHO FEARED DAUGHTERS' MUTILATION TO STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: Portland, Ore.


An immigration judge Wednesday blocked the deportation of a Nigerian woman,
citing the probability that her two young daughters would face ritual female
circumcision if she were forced to return.

An attorney for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said the agency would
not appeal, which means Lydia Oluloro is free to remain in the United States and
apply for citizenship.

The case marks the first time an illegal immigrant has won the right to stay in
the United States because of the prospect of female circumcision or other forms
of female genital mutilation.

In a telephone conference call from his office in Seattle, U.S. Immigration
Judge Kendall Warren called the widespread African practice "cruel, painful and
dangerous."

Warren said Oluloro had proven, as required by U.S. law, that her deportation
would result in "extreme hardship" to her or her family.

Oluloro, 32, had argued that her daughters, Shade, 6, and Lara, 5, would face
ritual genital mutilation if she was deported to her native Nigeria. She is in
the country illegally; her children are U.S. citizens.

"I really appreciate your help in finding the truth," Oluloro told the judge
immediately after he announced his ruling.

A few minutes later, holding her daughters on her lap and hugging them, she
said, "I'm happy and grateful."

She decried the ritual practice but said she doubted that the decision would
have much effect on female genital mutilation in Nigeria.

"Why shed the blood of a human being for no reason?" she said. "It is such a
terrible thing to do to children."

In the procedure, the external female sexual organs are cut away and the opening
is sewn shut, except for a pencil-size hole for urination. The ritual is
intended to make sure girls stay virgins until they marry.

Oluloro, a janitor and former restaurant manager, underwent the ritual when she
was 4. She testified that, as a child, she had routinely seen it performed on
her sisters and other children.

The judge rejected the U.S. government's argument that customs were changing in
Nigeria. Instead, he relied on a United Nations study indicating that nearly all
the women in some parts of Nigeria were subjected to genital mutilation.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 28, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ADMINISTRATION PLANS IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 104 words


Facing an anti-immigration backlash that has swept from California to Capitol
Hill, the Clinton administration has begun making plans to introduce major
legislation on immigration next year, according to White House and congressional
sources.

Administration officials are moving on several fronts to regain control of a
rancorous debate over immigration that has unexpectedly intruded on a wide range
of policy matters.

President Clinton is considering limited cuts in benefits for legal immigrants
in his welfare reform package and has promised to keep illegal immigrants from
getting coverage under health reform.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 30, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TWO GIRLS WILL ESCAPE;
OUT OF TWO MILLION

BYLINE: ELLEN GOODMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 791 words


THEY ARE safe now. The two girls, 6-year-old Shade and 5-year-old Lara, will
stay with their mother and stay in their country. The mother, Lydia Oluloro,
will be spared the choice she described between leaving her daughters with an
abusive father or taking them with her to an abusive culture.

An immigration judge resolved Lydia's Choice. Last week, he lifted the order to
deport the Nigerian woman who had been married, had given birth, and been
divorced in the United States. He ruled that sending her back would, in the
jargon of immigration law, cause "extreme hardship" to her children, who are
U.S. citizens.

The hardship in this case wasn't economic nor was it political. The threat was
not from a government nor a leader. The danger was something that is almost
never claimed in the immigration court proceedings: genital mutilation.

There was the probability, the virtual certainty, that if these girls were
relocated from Portland, Ore., to their mother's homeland, they would be
assaulted the way she had been at 4 years old. Indeed, they would be assaulted
the way their mother's mother's mothers had been for perhaps a thousand years.
Shade and Lara would have their genitals attacked with a blade. One and then the
other would have her clitoris cut out along with her labia minor. One and then
the other would be stitched together with barely room for urinating and
menstruating. They would be mutilated in the name of tradition.

But Judge Kendall Warren ruled to protect them, saying, "This court attempts to
respect traditional cultures, but this is cruel and serves no known medical
purpose."

So, two girls were saved from a ritual that maims two million a year across the
world. And another small step was taken toward redefining abuse of women. Until
these last few years, the abuse of women never quite made the world's agenda.
Rape was a private assault. Wife-battering was a family affair. Sexual slavery
was about sex, not slavery. Gender discrimination was considered a matter of
tradition -- rather like music or dress.

Now our eyes are opened and our vocabulary has increased. From Bosnia, we saw
rape as a deliberate political act. From Thailand, we heard from thousands of
Burmese girls tricked into sexual slavery while the officials winked. From
Pakistan and India we learned of bride-burning. And from Africa we bore witness
to genital mutilation and the fight to end it.

Slowly the terrible things that happen to women are being understood as human
rights abuses. At the United Nations Conference on Human Rights last summer,
women's groups from every culture signed the same petition saying: "We demand
gender violence to be recognized as a violation of human rights." And at last,
the U.S. State Department includes women's rights when tallying the world's
records of human rights abuses.

In our own country, the policy of offering refuge or asylum on these grounds has
been slow to change. In theory, anyone who has been severely harassed,
persecuted, can ask for asylum here. But in practice, it's granted mostly to
people fleeing communism or to men in political cases.

As Deborah Anker of Harvard's Immigrant and Refugee Program said, "The kinds of
harm women face have been traditionally trivialized and considered private."
Slowly, gender claims have begun to appear -- claims by women's rights advocates
fleeing governments, claims by victims of political rape, claims by wives
battered in countries that don't protect them, and now by women fearing this
female ritual.

Lydia Oluloro's claims were made for her daughters' sake. The judge sidestepped
the issue of asylum. She won the right to stay here on humanitarian grounds --
to protect two young U.S. citizens. But for the first time a case was won on the
need to protect females from forced genital mutilation.

Will this open some vast new floodgate of refugees? Most girls are cut by this
blade while they are as young as Shade and Lara. Few 5-year-olds will find their
way here to beg refuge. The struggle to uproot this "tradition" will have to
continue on its own home turf.

But if we are to take mutilation seriously in the world, and in our foreign
policy, we have to take it seriously in our own rules about refugees and asylum.
They are one way we show our values to the world, one way we define persecution
and offer protection.

The forced genital mutilation of young girls fits all the definitions of
persecution we apply to any refugee. The brutal assault by a knife on the sexual
organ is persecution of the most extreme -- and the most female -- sort.

Last week, two girls were rescued by their mother and by a judge. Two out of two
million. Sometimes you have to defend human rights two at a time.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ellen Goodman is a Boston Globe columnist.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 31, 1994 Thursday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

MTN. VIEW TO WEIGH COPS' ROLE IN INS RAIDS

BYLINE: S.L. WYKES, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 613 words


Mountain View has agreed to look into a ban on local police providing traffic
control during immigration raids after listening Tuesday to nearly four hours of
passionate public testimony.

The city council will ask a task force to investigate the issue, which has
become a controversy because of three immigration sweeps in the city in the last
eight months.

"We had an idea it was going to get kicked to a task force," said Richard Konda
of the Asian Law Alliance, who spoke at Tuesday's hearing. "Maybe something will
come of that."

The council also voted to begin preparations to establish a human relations
commission to help sort out problems of ethnic diversity. The commission's
funding will be considered in the 1994-'95 budget process.

Immigration enforcement has been an issue in the city since day laborers began
to gather at El Camino Real and San Antonio Road, prompting complaints from
merchants and raids by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

During one sweep, a Mountain View police officer transported two men who had
been detained by an INS agent to an INS van. In another sweep, Mountain View
police officers were posted at side streets to reroute incoming traffic.

Civil rights advocates have protested police involvement, saying that continuing
police presence at INS raids will erode the police department's credibility and
make some residents distrust police officers.

Tuesday's hearing drew about 40 speakers. They ranged from members of the Santa
Clara County Human Relations Commission who support a limit on police
cooperation to representatives of the Save Mountain View Coalition, which
advocates police cooperation with the INS.

On Tuesday, the council was asked by a recently formed Hispanic group, Latinos
Unidos de Mountain View, to forbid the police department from any cooperation
with the INS.

The association of the police with the INS has made Hispanics feel trapped, said
Latinos Unidos spokesman Reynaldo Herrera. "They are angry. They feel betrayed."

Sandy Spaulding of the South Bay chapter of the National Organization for Women
told the council that Mountain View is fueling anti-immigrant hysteria by not
taking a strong stand. "No matter how anti-immigration hysteria is packaged,"
she said, "it is still racism."

"I am certain the police have good intentions," Mountain View resident Georgia
Chung told the council. "I care for the people of Mountain View, but consider
the long-term effects -- peace and understanding between ethnic groups, not
frightened neighbors and children. This is the time to help each other, to
provide some leadership and vision."

Mountain View Police Chief Brown Taylor proposed a policy that would allow the
department to "provide for the general safety and welfare of community members,
depending on the nature and scope" of INS operations. Taylor has said the
department should not assist the INS with its duties, but is required to provide
traffic control to lessen the chance of injury if someone runs into traffic
during an immigration sweep.

That policy still is being reviewed within the police department, Taylor told
the council. But he said after the meeting that he will be meeting with lawyers
from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area to
investigate other legal alternatives to the proposed policy.

The committee helped draft a 1985 resolution by the San Francisco Board of
Supervisors that prohibits use of city funds to help enforce federal immigration
laws. A police spokesman said that San Francisco police participate only in
investigations in which the INS suspects felony offenses by undocumented
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 1, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOING RIGHT BY REFUGEES INS FUNDING COULD SLASH THE BACKLOG AND DISCOURAGE ABUSE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 352 words


VICTIMS of political persecution, targets of death squads, ex-prisoners of
conscience -- these are among the refugees most Americans would readily welcome.

But legitimate seekers of political asylum are buried in a pile of fraudulent
applicants to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. In two years, asylum
applications have nearly tripled, from 45,000 in fiscal 1991 to 150,000 in the
past fiscal year.

The Clinton administration this week put forth some good ideas for slashing the
backlog of 370,000 cases and discouraging abuse. INS Commissioner Doris Meissner
is asking Congress for funds to double the number of INS asylum officers and add
half again as many immigration judges. For $64 million, that would be a bargain.

The INS estimates it could cut the wait from two years to six months, and
discourage fraud. It would set up a speedy checkout for both clearly valid and
obviously frivolous applications, without denying appeals.

Two of the proposed changes, however, would impose undue hardship and should be
dropped.

Charging a $130 filing fee would not raise significant funds for Uncle Sam, but
it would deter legitimate applicants for asylum. The United States would become
the only country to charge for asylum applications.

And the proposal to deny applicants a work permit for six months would simply
send more desperate people into the underground market. Most legitimate refugees
flee their homes in terror and arrive without possessions, assets or supporting
family. They've got to work.

The labor market will barely notice them. Last fiscal year, 5,115 people were
granted asylum, 0.5 percent of arriving legal and illegal immigrants.

Stories of fraudulent claims and paroled applicants who vanish have eroded
public confidence in political asylum. The problem is not the policy, which is
sound and consistent with international standards. The problem is an inundated
INS.

Unlike radical and cruel proposals put forth by hysterics in Congress, the
Clinton plan would unbury the INS and allow it to administer a humane and just
policy more efficiently.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 5, 1994 Tuesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

HOUSEKEEPER FACES OUSTER IN RIFT WITH BOSS AFTER COMPLAINING, SHE NOW MAY BE
DEPORTED.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 356 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


An undocumented housekeeper who complained about the way her boss treated her
faces deportation to her native Chile -- a move brought about when the boss
complained about her.

Claudia Garate, 26, and her attorney meet Wednesday with immigration officials
in hopes of staving off the deportation order issued last year.

"This case is important because to punish someone like Claudia is basically to
punish all women and all other workers in this situation, rather than the
employers and the system who take advantage of them," said Steve Rosenbaum, an
attorney for California Rural Legal Assistance.

Garate went to the state Labor Commissioner where she told authorities she went
more than a year without pay and was forced to sleep on an air mattress in a
baby's bedroom.

Her employers, Carl and Isabel Kock of Rohner Park, then tipped the Immigration
and Naturalization service about Garate's undocumented status.

Garate was later awarded $18,000 in back pay but she had to settle for $2,000
when collection proved difficult, Rosenbaum said.

Garate, who arrived in 1989 on a student visa requested by the Kocks, said she
was never paid the $50 a month she was promised.

"If employers can hold immigration status over the heads of their employees, it
can only result in a workforce which remains silent about its rights and
unmercifully exploited," said Mark Silverman of the Immigrant Legal Resource
Center, which is also helping Garate.

"What I saw was an abuse of human rights," Garate said. "People in this country
seem to be worried about animal rights. But, we, the immigrants, are treated
much worse."

The Kocks were fined by the INS for knowingly hiring Garate without having a
work visa for her, said Philip Waters, acting director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. He would not reveal the amount of the fine.

Rosenbaum contends the INS can terminate proceedings for public policy
considerations.

"This Administration has articulated a policy from the time of its cabinet
appointments that is not all right to flaunt employment laws in hiring domestic
workers," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 7, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ARISTIDE CANCELS TREATY ON BOAT PEOPLE CLINTON IS TOLD TO STOP SENDING REFUGEES
BACK

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: Washington


In a potentially serious blow to President Clinton's Haiti policy, exiled
Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide has notified the United States that in
six months it will have no legal basis to repatriate Haitian boat people.

In a harshly worded letter to Clinton, the Haitian leader terminated a 12-
year-old immigration agreement under which the U.S. Coast Guard has intercepted
and returned more than 66,000 refugees to Haiti since 1981. The termination
would take effect Oct. 4.

The White House, which acknowledged it had had Aristide's letter since Monday,
refused to comment on its substance.

Aristide has threatened the action for weeks in response to growing atrocities
in his Caribbean nation. It is the clearest example yet of his differences with
the Clinton administration, which has struggled to forge a political settlement
in Haiti restoring civilian, democratic rule.

The move marks the death of an unwritten agreement between Aristide and Clinton,
under which Aristide would withhold criticism of U.S. immigration policy toward
Haitians and Clinton would redouble U.S. efforts to restore him as president.

This places new pressure on Clinton, whose administration is increasingly
hard-pressed to justify returning refugees to a country where the military and
its allies are, in U.S. words, "deliberately eliminating adversaries . . . with
absolute impunity."

Ernest Preeg, the former U.S. ambassador to Haiti who negotiated the immigration
accord on behalf of the Reagan administration, said the action could have the
effect of paralyzing U.S. immigration policy regarding Haitians, and threatened
to unleash a Florida-bound exodus in October.

"Just as we're getting ready for President Clinton's summit in Miami, with all
the leaders of the hemisphere gathered, you could expect tens of thousands of
Haitians to be landing on the beaches of Florida," Preeg said.

On Capitol Hill, Democrats predicted that -- agreement or no agreement --
Clinton will continue the repatriations, working quietly with Haiti's de facto
authorities. The administration would rather estrange the international
community and Aristide's backers in the Congressional Black Caucus than risk an
outcry in politically important Florida, they said.

"My guess is that they will continue to repatriate regardless," said one
foreign-policy aide who follows Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Aristide
940407 GN 6C 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 14, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION AD INFLAMES INTERNET USERS

BYLINE: MIKE LANGBERG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 675 words


In perhaps the biggest violation yet of "netiquette," the unofficial code of
conduct for the Internet global computer network, a Phoenix immigration law firm
sent out an unsolicited advertisement this week to 5,000 user groups and got
back at least 30,000 angry responses.

That five-alarm outbreak of "flame mail," Internet slang for nasty electronic
messages, repeatedly crashed the computers at Internet Direct, a small Phoenix
on-line service used by the husband-and-wife firm of Canter & Siegel.

The possibility of ads creeping onto the Internet, not the politically touchy
issue of immigration, caused the furor -- raising again the nagging question of
commercial use on the unsupervised network of networks that connects an
estimated 20 million users worldwide.

Formed 20 years ago by the Defense Department to link academic researchers and
government agencies, the Internet has grown to the point where a majority of
users are outside the walls of a university or federal office. Although the
Internet in theory is not intended for commercial use, many types of commerce
are now widely accepted -- companies setting up a data base where customers can
retrieve product information, for example, or executives exchanging business
messages.

Sending out unsolicited advertising such as Canter & Siegel's pitch, however, is
still beyond the pale, although there are no binding regulations preventing such
conduct.

"This shows a wanton disregard for what people have established as acceptable
use," said Brent Helsop, a Mountain View technical writer who has co-authored
"The Instant Internet Guide" and two related books. "It's like attacking the
president. You just can't do that."

Internet Direct immediately suspended Canter & Siegel's account for violating
the customer service agreement. The lawyers came back with a threat to sue for
$250,000 to recover the small number of messages from people interested in their
offer.

"There's nothing illegal about what we did," Laurence Canter insisted Wednesday.

"We did something new," Martha Siegel said. "We understand when you do something
new, it's controversial. But just because it's controversial doesn't mean it's
wrong."

This isn't the first time, however, that Canter and Siegal got into trouble for
committing the Internet equivalent of sending out junk mail.

Siegel said Netcom Online Communication Services Inc., a San Jose provider of
Internet access, told the couple to stop sending out multiple postings last
month.

Canter & Siegel sent their latest ad Monday night to just about every Internet
"news group," electronic bulletin boards on specific subjects ranging from
computer programming to child care. Many of these news groups have internal
policies banning unsolicited advertising and many news-group subscribers pay for
each message received.

Specifically, the law firm offered free information on a coming federal lottery
that will award 55,000 "green cards" extending permanent residency status to
immigrants. "There is a strict June deadline. The time to start is now!!," the
ad said.

Users requesting the free information will receive a six-page brochure
describing the lottery and declaring: "The truth is an attorney can help
increase your odds of winning. The law firm of Canter & Siegel is your best
lottery choice."

Internet Direct, a year-old start-up with only five employees, posted an apology
in a few news groups Tuesday, saying the service did not condone the law firm's
action.

"They knew what they were doing was not acceptable," said Jeff Wheelhouse,
Internet Direct's system administrator.

But Siegel said her firm sought permission and provided a memo from Internet
Direct business manager Bill Fisher, dated March 22, stating: "We do not
pre-censor information. We will not stop you from doing anything unless we
believe it to be illegal. If we receive reports that actions you are performing
are having deleterious effects upon our systems and the other users of Internet
Direct, then we will ask you to cease."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 21, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ROMANIAN STOWAWAYS MOVED TO PRISON

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 140 words


Eighteen Romanian stowaways who were held prisoner in a Newark, N.J., hotel by a
shipping company were moved to a Pennsylvania prison after immigration officials
intervened. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service found room for the
18 stowaways at the Snyder County prison in Selinsgrove, Pa., where the U.S.
Marshals Service often rents space for its detainees. Officials said they
decided to assist the Romanians -- most of whom came to Boston last month by
hiding themselves in metal cargo containers loaded onto a 43,000-ton freighter
in France -- because the ship's owner, Sea-Land Service Inc., could not find a
place for them. Under U.S. immigration law, shipping companies are legally and
financially responsible for the custody of stowaways, sometimes for more than a
year if the stowaways seek political asylum.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 5, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS STAND TO LOSE BENEFITS UNDER BILLS

BYLINE: GREGORY SPEARS, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: Washington


Christa Perl works two jobs to help support herself and put her son through
college. "I pay taxes like anybody else. I pay Social Security. I'm a working
person. I was never on welfare," said the married, 50-year-old legal secretary
from San Jose.

But as Congress casts about for ways to pay for welfare reform, scores of
lawmakers favor barring Perl -- who emigrated from Austria 23 years ago to marry
an American -- and nearly 10 million other legal immigrants from most federal
welfare programs.

Legal scholars question whether it would be constitutional, but under proposals
endorsed by more than 190 House members, legal aliens would be declared
ineligible for welfare, food stamps, Social Security payments for disabled
workers and Medicaid, the health insurance program for the poor.

"This bill places a priority on citizens of the United States," said Cindy Cain,
a spokeswoman for Rep. Dave McCurdy, D-Okla., who has 30 co- sponsors for his
welfare-reform bill that would deny federal welfare payments to legal immigrants
while increasing assistance for U.S. citizens.

Citizens won't lose benefits

The proposals would not cut benefits for immigrants who become U.S. citizens,
only those who are here legally but are not citizens. Illegal immigrants are
generally not eligible for federal welfare benefits.

The Clinton administration thinks McCurdy's bill goes too far, according to an
official. But to help pay for his welfare-reform plan, scheduled to go to
Congress in June, President Clinton will propose making elderly immigrants wait
until at least age 75 to be eligible for cash payments for the aged poor. U.S.
citizens can qualify for the same assistance at 65.

Critics see such proposals as the latest outbreak of an age-old American
political impulse -- anti-alienism -- and say it would only increase the burden
on states like California and Florida that already are contending with a
flood-tide of immigration.

"It sounds good, it seems tough, but who is going to pay for these people?"
asked Debby Kilmer, director of Florida's Washington office. Florida already is
suing the federal government for failing to control its borders, which the state
contends forced it to spend $873 million assisting immigrants last year.

Cuban rafters would lose

Under a bill introduced by House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R-Ill., Cuban
rafters who make the perilous sea passage to Florida to seek political asylum
would be barred from federal assistance, except for emergency medical treatment.

Michel's bill, which has 163 Republican co-sponsors, is the broadest ban on
benefits to legal immigrants, disqualifying them from 64 assistance programs,
everything from subsidized school lunch programs to Pell grants for college
students.

"Immigrants have really taken advantage of these programs," said an aide to
Michel who spoke on the condition that he not be identified. "Our position on
immigration is very simple: Immigration yes, welfare no."

But Michel's aide gave the bill little chance of passage because Democrats so
far have kept it bottled it up in committee and won't allow it to the House
floor for a vote.

However, there are so many proposals in Congress to deny welfare benefits to
legal immigrants that both sides say some benefit cut is likely.

A disproportionate share of immigrants do receive welfare, according to a study
released this month by the Urban Institute, a Washington think tank. The study
found that 4.7 percent of legal immigrants receive public assistance, compared
to 3.7 percent of U.S. citizens.

But only 2.2 percent of working-age immigrants who have arrived since 1980 get
public assistance, according to the author of the study, Michael Fix, director
of the Urban Institute's Immigrant Policy Program. Fix said immigrants who
receive public assistance typically are recently arrived elderly and refugees.
Refugees constitute about 10 percent of the 1.1 million immigrants who entered
the United States last year, Fix said.

There are 6.45 million foreign-born residents of California -- including 347,201
in Santa Clara County. The city and county of San Francisco has 246,034, and
Alameda County has 230,375 foreign-born residents.

Laws will be challenged

Any attempt to curtail aid to legal immigrants is sure to be challenged, said
Miami attorney Ira J. Kurzban, a past president of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association. In 1971, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned two states'
efforts to deny welfare benefits to immigrants, finding they violated the
Constitution's 14th Amendment, which guarantees equal protection under the law.
"They are in many respects as much American as any other person born in the
United States," Kurzban said. But immigrants are a frequent target when
frustrations rise over domestic problems, he said.

Perl agreed. "I would say we are a good group to attack because to whom do we
go? We don't vote for any governors or senators," she said. "If that goes
though, I'll have only one choice -- to go for citizenship."

Perl said she probably would have no trouble gaining U.S. citizenship, but that
she preferred to keep her Austrian citizenship because her parents and brother
still live there. Her husband and her son are U.S. citizens.

"The point is here they have put a gun to my head," Perl said. "I always thought
I could keep a little bit of my homeland."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: Knight-Ridder News Service
Immigrants and welfare
Source: Urban Institute, Statistical Abstract
940605 FR 8A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 25, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CAPITOL RALLY ENDS LONG TREK BY UFW

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


Thousands of chanting United Farm Workers and their backers rallied Sunday at
the state Capitol, demanding improved working conditions while excoriating Gov.
Pete Wilson for his immigration policies.

The demonstrators, along with an array of politicians and the UFW's leadership,
gathered nearly 28 years to the day after a similar rally brought national
attention to the plight of California's farm laborers, many of them
Spanish-speaking migratory workers.

State police and farmworker officials estimated the crowd at 10,000 to 14,000,
although the actual number appeared to be far smaller, perhaps 5,000. The rally,
capping a 343-mile trek through the Central Valley, also commemorated the
one-year anniversary of the death of Cesar Chavez, the UFW's founding president.
Chavez died in his sleep on April 23, 1993, at age 66.

"He was born poor, he worked poor and he died poor," said Jack Henning, head of
the 2.2 million-member California Labor Federation. Chavez sent "a message to
growers. He raised the flag of rebellion against them," Henning said.

The speakers included UFW co-founder Dolores Huerta and former Gov. Jerry Brown,
who in 1975 signed into law the landmark Agricultural Labor Relations Act. It
legitimized the UFW's power to negotiate contracts with growers.

Brown urged the crowd to continue organizing.

"Cesar Chavez had to sit in my office before he could get that law. He didn't
get it because we gave it to him. He got it because he took it. . . . Don't ever
forget it," Brown said. "In solidarity, people can take back the power of this
state."

The 64-year-old Huerta, who with Chavez formed the UFW, denounced the Republican
governor for his immigration policies, which include denying public services to
illegal immigrants.

"We are all immigrants," she said, noting that Wilson was not in the Capitol.
"Where is Wilson? He's not here," she said in Spanish.

The Capitol rally was the culmination of a 24-day march through the Central
Valley, following the same route of Chavez and his followers in 1966. During the
march, the UFW said, about 10,000 people signed pledge cards to join the union.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
United Farm Workers employee Rocio Castillo holds a union symbol Sunday at a
rally at the state Capitol.
940425 CA 3B 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 11, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL TRIES TO UNRAVEL TRUCK CRASH VICTIMS MAY HAVE BEEN ON IMMIGRANT
RUN FROM ARIZONA TO CALIFORNIA.

BYLINE: MICHAEL WHITE, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: San Bernardino


Most of the treks prove arduous. This one proved deadly. But the 20 people who
rode 500 miles through the desert in a compact pickup were doing what they felt
was necessary. They nearly made it.

Twelve of them died in a ditch alongside Interstate 15 when the truck crashed
early Wednesday. Seven others were hospitalized, three in critical condition.

The trip may have been a Los Angeles-bound immigrant smuggling run that began in
Arizona -- a lengthy route that many immigrants are using because of new Border
Patrol strategies in California and Texas, officials said.

"There are people who are deciding to choose Arizona as a place to cross because
of the stepped-up enforcement in those two areas," said Steve McDonald,
spokesman for the Border Patrol's Tucson sector.

McDonald said he arrested an illegal immigrant on Tuesday who was from
Chihuahua, Mexico. While Chihuahua is south of El Paso, Texas, the man told
McDonald he chose to cross in Arizona instead.

"He said it's real hard to get across in El Paso these days," where U.S. agents
have saturated the border, McDonald said from Nogales.

The same is true in California, where a 14-mile steel fence in San Diego is
pushing border-crossers elsewhere. Border Patrol apprehensions of undocumented
people in San Diego dropped 6 percent in fiscal 1993, but jumped 30 percent in
parts of Texas and Arizona.

There were 40,895 arrests in the Tucson sector from Oct. 1 to Feb. 28, up from
29,866 in the same period a year earlier, MacDonald said. In contrast, the San
Diego sector had 167,629 arrests between Oct. 1 and Feb. 28, down nearly 9
percent from the previous year.

In time, Arizona and New Mexico also will have fences to separate towns like
Nogales, Naco and Douglas from often-larger Mexican cities just across the
border. A new 4-mile fence already separates San Luis, Ariz., south of Yuma,
from the Mexican city of San Luis.

Whether enforcement was the reason for Wednesday's ill-fated trip from Nogales
wasn't immediately known. Crash survivor Alejandro Henriquez, 24, of El
Salvador, said the group left Nogales at 7 p.m. Tuesday for Los Angeles, where
some hoped to catch plane flights.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Follow-up:

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 9, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'IMMIGRANT BASHING' DENOUNCED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: Riverside


Hispanic activists at an immigration conference condemned political attacks on
illegal immigrants and said studies showing the taxpayer costs of undocumented
aliens are flawed.

"Immigrant bashing is a way of diverting attention from economic crisis," said
Miguel Tinker-Salas, a Pomona College professor of history.

Tinker-Salas was one of several hundred participants from around the nation who
attended the conference at the University of California, Riverside. They met to
formulate a Hispanic response to what they called immigrant bashing by
politicians.

Speakers criticized Gov. Pete Wilson and Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara
Boxer, all of whom have touted stronger border controls.

Toney Anaya, former governor of New Mexico, said Hispanics should use their
numbers and purchasing power to exert their political power.

Researcher Morgan Appel of the Tomas Rivera Center in Claremont said the studies
showing the costs associated with undocumented workers had insufficient sample
sizes and faulty data collection techniques.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 12, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

CENSUS FAULTS GOVERNOR'S BUDGET MATH OFFICIALS DISPUTE WILSON'S GAUGE OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANT POPULATION

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 520 words


Gov. Pete Wilson's recent budget proposal, which seeks $2.3 billion from
Washington to help cover California's cost of illegal immigrants, sets those
costs $600 million higher than he had estimated just five months ago.

The increase is largely based on an estimate of the state's illegal population
that census and immigration experts consider highly debatable.

Wilson's budget assumes there are 2,083,000 illegal immigrants in the state. The
figure comes from an estimate made last summer by the U.S. Census Bureau, which
previously had pegged the state's illegal population at about 1.3 million.

Census officials, however, stress that the recent estimate is only a guess
because the census didn't ask respondents whether they were legal or illegal
residents, said Edward Fernandez, a census demographer who helped come up with
the latest count.

"We use the term 'unofficial,' " he said of the recent estimate, "and I think I
mention that about once every 15 seconds when I talk about this. . . . These are
rough estimates."

The estimate was derived from a variety of factors, such as 1990 census data on
the foreign born and a formula for figuring the nation's illegal population that
some researchers came up with in 1980. It also included data on how many illegal
people were granted legal amnesty under a 1986 law and where they lived at the
time.

Based on that, Fernandez said, the number of illegal immigrants in California is
probably somewhere between 1.7 million and 2.1 million. But he conceded the
number could be lower. And in fact, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service has concluded the state's illegal immigrant population is closer to 1.3
million.

Robert Warren, who heads the INS statistics branch, said the INS figure is lower
largely because the agency thinks Mexicans account for a smaller share of
illegal immigrants than they used to.

In the mid 1980s, he said, more than half the nation's illegal population was
Mexican. And California, which drew the highest numbers of Mexican immigrants,
had about half the nation's illegal population. But now, he said, data shows
Mexicans make up only about 30 percent of the nation's illegal population and
California has only about 40 percent of all illegals.

Because of the way the state estimates the costs of illegal immigrants, the
significance of the dispute over numbers mostly shows up in public school
expenses. In August, Wilson estimated public education costs due to illegal
immigration at $1.1 billion. But based on the new census estimate, his budget
plan now figures those costs at $1.7 billion.

The numbers could change even more. Census officials say they plan to look into
the matter further and issue revised illegal population estimates this spring.
But if the revised numbers turn out to be lower than the ones Wilson has used in
his budget, it's unclear if the governor would reduce his financial request to
the federal government.

Harold Palmer, assistant director of finance for the governor, declined to
comment on that possibility, noting that such speculation "is premature."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 1994

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 1/13/94, pg. 4B)
A headline in Wednesday's Mercury News concerning Gov. Pete Wilson's request for
federal funds to help pay expenses related to illegal immigrants was misleading.
The request was based on a U.S. Census Bureau estimate of the number of illegal
immigrants in California. Census officials said that estimate was highly
uncertain, but they did not fault Wilson for using the estimate.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Wilson
Census faults
governor's
budget mat
940112 CA 3B 3

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 12, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CARTOON NO LAUGHING MATTER IN CALEXICO SOME MERCHANTS ARE UPSET WITH A MAP THEY
SAY BELITTLES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: Calexico


Some merchants are angry over a new map commissioned by the local chamber of
commerce that shows Calexico's businesses and also appears to belittle illegal
immigrants.

The cartoon map uses caricatures as a marketing tool to show where Calexico's
businesses are. But it also has caricatures of people trying to sneak across the
Mexican border into Calexico.

Some are shown climbing a fence at the border. Others try to get across by
dressing as a cactus or a tree. One person in the cartoon digs a tunnel
underneath the fence, and yet another tries to sneak in by going through the
sewer system.

"I think it's offensive to us as a border town," said Hildy Carrillo- Rivera,
editor of the Calexico Chronicle, who condemned the map in a recent editorial.
She said most businesses here would not survive without Mexican shoppers, and
the humor doesn't fit in with the affable atmosphere surrounding the North
American Free Trade Agreement.

"I want my money back," said Lupe Acuna, publisher of the Calexico Chronicle and
a co-owner of Norm's Liquor and Deli. Like other business owners, Acuna paid
about $150 to have her store drawn onto the map.

"What's the artist saying here, that people from Mexico are a problem to us and
are only trying to cross over illegally and commit crime?" she asked.

Other caricatures on the map also have brought objections, including one showing
what appears to be a Hispanic person who just robbed a bank. The map shows the
young man riding away from a local bank on a tricycle with a load of cash
falling off the back.

At least one business owner isn't upset by the map.

"I came here as a wetback from Mexicali in 1957, and I'm proud of it, and I'm
proud of this country," said Connie Mineo, who runs Tony's Garden, a restaurant.

"There's nothing in this map that isn't true. People do try to sneak across the
border all the time," added Mineo, who became a U.S. citizen in 1985.

A Tucson, Ariz., company, Home Towne Graphics, created the map. Representatives
of the company did not immediately return a telephone message left at the
Arizona office.

Fred M. Knechel, executive director of the Calexico Chamber of Commerce, said
the chamber will recommend possibly objectionable caricatures be removed from
the map in its next printing.

But that could be a long time because the chamber has 5,000 copies of the map,
which it is distributing free. Despite the controversy, Knechel said the chamber
will continue to distribute the map.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 16, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LIGHTS TO SHINE ON BORDER INSTALLATION AIMED AT ILLEGAL CROSSINGS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: San Diego


The Border Patrol plans to light up all 14 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border in
San Diego with powerful stadium lights.

It's part of a new strategy to prevent illegal immigrants from crossing the
border rather than arresting them after they already get here, said Gustavo De
la Vina, chief of the U.S. Border Patrol's Chula Vista sector.

The Border Patrol previously installed 24 stadium lights along the Tijuana River
levee just west of the San Ysidro port of entry.

Now it has 70 more lights that it plans to deploy to the west, mainly in the
marshy zone between the border and Imperial Beach, about 15 miles south of San
Diego.

Ready by March

The lights should be in operation within two months, De la Vina said.

"That's my main mission right now," De la Vina said Friday in an interview with
the San Diego Union Tribune. "I have to light up this border."

Muriel Watson, one of several local campaigners for immigration reform and
founder of a group called "Light Up the Border," was ecstatic about the plans.
"Yippee for the lights!" she said. "This sends an important message, that we are
willing to control the border and enforce our immigration laws."

De la Vina said the key border zone is a two-mile stretch west of the San Ysidro
port of entry, between Interstate 5 and the Pacific Ocean, the area of the
heaviest volume of illegal crossings for the last few years.

Focused effort

"This is where I'm sending everything and everybody I possibly can," he said.

Slowly, the U.S. Border Patrol is shifting its emphasis from arresting illegal
border crossers to preventing their crossing, an approach pioneered last fall in
El Paso, Texas.

But the approach will not concentrate on a blockade-style operation of the
entire San Diego zone, such as was launched by the Border Patrol last fall in El
Paso. But it will deprive illegal crossers of their favorite crossing sites, De
la Vina said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 28, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

WILSON TO URGE GOVERNORS TO SEEK IMMIGRATION FUNDS BID FOR U.S. HELP MAY BE HURT
BECAUSE CALIFORNIA'S ESTIMATES ARE HIGHER THAN OTHER STATES'.

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 767 words


In support of his bid to get $2.4 billion in federal money for California's
illegal immigration and refugee costs, Gov. Pete Wilson is hoping other
governors meeting in Washington this weekend will issue a strong plea for more
federal aid to states with such expenses.

Yet, even if the governors group endorses the resolutions, California's
prospects for getting the money Wilson wants -- or even a good share of it --
appear highly questionable.

In part that's because federal money is tight. Beyond that, California's
estimated costs for illegal immigrants and refugees are so much higher than in
other states, it may be tough to arouse interest in the issue among Congress
members from other parts of the country.

One Wilson resolution to be considered this weekend by the National Governors'
Association would ask the federal government to reimburse states for the cost of
educating and imprisoning illegal immigrants. Another measure that Wilson backs
would request an end to federal rules requiring states to pay for illegal
immigrants' emergency health care.

"The federal government's unwillingness to provide adequate funding for refugee
resettlement and immigrant assistance services," Wilson's resolution says, "has
resulted in a dramatic shift of program costs from the federal government to
state and local taxpayers."

In January, Wilson asked the federal government for $2.3 billion in compensation
for state services to illegal immigrants and an additional $111 million for
refugee costs borne by the state. And the governors of Texas, New York,
Illinois, Arizona and New Jersey have joined in his call for more federal
financing.

"It's not just a California issue, and it's not a partisan issue," said H.D.
Palmer, assistant director of California's Department of Finance. "From around
the country, you are beginning to see what you might call 'critical mass' on
these issues."

Recent history would indicate Wilson's financial appeal will face resistance.
When he made a similar request last year for $1.45 billion, he wound up with
only $324 million in federal aid. And this year, Congress is already scrambling
to come up with more than $6 billion that the state needs to help repair damage
from the Northridge earthquake.

"I think it's unlikely that Congress is going to reimburse states for the costs
of illegal immigrants," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who is on the House
immigration subcommittee and is chairman of a Republican task force on illegal
immigration.

The biggest obstacle for states such as California, said Smith in an interview
this week, is the federal government's dwindling resources and gaping deficit.
But he added that even if the money was available, Congress might have a tough
time determining how much to reimburse states. In a recent survey, Smith found
many states "don't really tabulate the costs of illegal immigration."

In August, Wilson's office pegged the overall cost of illegal immigrants to
California taxpayers at $2.3 billion, based on an assumption that California had
1.3 million illegal residents -- more than 40 percent of all illegal immigrants
in the country. But in January, the governor revised that estimate to $3.6
billion, based on an assumption challenged by some demographers that the state's
population of illegal entrants is closer to 2 million.

California's current estimated costs are more than $3 billion higher than any of
the other 30 states that responded to Congressman Smith's survey. Most provided
only fragmentary data about their illegal immigrant costs. And what cost
estimates they did offer varied dramatically.

The per-capita cost for jailing an illegal immigrant, for example, ranged from
$37,241 in Delaware to $12,317 in South Dakota. In California, the cost was
$32,237.

Only California and Texas provided extensive estimates of their health, welfare,
education and incarceration costs for illegal immigrants. For all of those
services combined, the average cost per illegal immigrant was $794 in Texas,
compared to $1,777 in California.

Wilson officials said they hadn't seen the Texas data and could offer no
immediate explanation for the cost difference. But they defended California's
estimate and reiterated Wilson's previous threat to go to court over the $2.4
billion bill if federal officials balk at paying it.

"He's going to do whatever it takes," said Beth Miller, Wilson's spokeswoman.
"He's prepared to file a suit. . . . The yoke of federal mandates on the states
are just a tremendous burden."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Additional information attached to the end of this story

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 1994

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 1/29/94, pg. 6B)
Because of an error by a reporter and an editor, the Mercury News on Friday
incorrectly stated the estimated number of illegal immigrants imprisoned in
California and the per-capita cost of incarcerating them in fiscal year 1994.
The number of illegal prisoners was 16,392 and the per-capita cost was $29,892.

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
COSTS OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION COMPARED
California is estimated to have 2.4 times the number of illegal immigrants as
Texas, but in five categories for which comparisons exist, California officials
claim state and local costs were 5.3 times Texas' costs. For corrections,
education and welfare, this chart shows the estimated population served. For
medical services and total cost, per capita figures are based on the states'
estimated illegal populations as of last year.
California
Total Cost per
cost Population capita
Medical services(s1) $484 million 1,300,000 $372
State prisons 490 million 15,200 32,237
Education (K-12) 1,100 million 255,000 4,314
Welfare(s2) 236 million 176,750 1,335
Total $2.3 billion 1,300,000 $1,777
Texas
Total Cost per
cost Population capita
Medical services(s1) $94 million 550,000 $171
State prisons 39 million 2,620 14,965
Education (K-12) 299 million 72,101 4,146
Welfare(s2) 5 million 23,108 207
Total $437 million 550,000 $794
(s1) California figures include only Medi-Cal services. Texas figures include
local hospital costs as well as the state's share of Texas' equivalent of
Medi-Cal. Both states' figures include services to citizen children of illegal
immigrants.
(s2) Welfare goes to citizen children of illegal aliens.
Source: Texas and California governors' offices.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 9, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION AID IN THE WORKS, U.S. OFFICIALS SAY CLINTON BUDGET HAS SOME MONEY,
BUT MORE IS LIKELY AFTER NEGOTIATIONS.

BYLINE: JAMES R. CARROLL, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: Washington


Some California officials may have been dismayed at the absence of money in
President Clinton's budget to help the state deal with illegal immigration. But
that concern is premature, administration officials insisted Tuesday.

They said that, in fact, the budget does contain spending for some of the costs
California and other states hard-hit by illegal immigration are concerned about.

Not only that, but more money is likely to be negotiated as the governors, the
White House and Congress work on the budget, administration officials said.
"This is obviously an issue that we are sympathetic to," White House Budget
Director Leon Panetta told the Senate Budget Committee.

Leaving out specific numbers for immigration aid to the states also was a
political consideration, according to an administration source who asked not to
be identified.

Clinton budget-writers doubted Gov. Pete Wilson's estimates that illegal
immigration will cost California $3 billion, the source said. And putting any
number short of that in the bill would have been an easy target for GOP
criticism, the source added.

Panetta, a former congressman from Monterey, said proposed increases in federal
aid to help disadvantaged pupils in public schools and payments to states for
poor patients in public health facilities are going to cover some of the illegal
immigration costs that states are worried about.

Several top California officials, including Democratic Sens. Dianne Feinstein
and Barbara Boxer and Republican Wilson, said they had expected that the
proposed budget would have contained some amount of reimbursement to states for
illegal immigration costs, if only as a signal that the administration
recognizes the problem.

Not putting any money in the budget targeted at immigration costs "raises doubts
about what level of funding will be secured" for the state, said Bill Chandler,
Feinstein's press secretary.

Feinstein asked Clinton in early January to put money in his budget earmarked to
offset illegal immigration costs carried by the states.

"Clearly a dollar recognition (in the budget) is important," said H.D. Palmer,
assistant director at the California Department of Finance. "We have been
talking about the state impact and the need for reimbursement going back to last
August."

The Californians also were disappointed because the fiscal 1995 budget seemed to
be a step backward from last year, when Clinton did propose giving the states
$400 million for health care costs related to illegal immigration. California
would have received $240 million.

The proposal was trimmed by $100 million in the House, then rejected entirely by
a House-Senate conference committee.

"If anything, this means we're going to have to redouble our efforts to work
with the administration and Congress to secure this money," Palmer said.

Wilson estimated that the $3 billion cost of educating undocumented- immigrant
children, incarcerating deportable felons and providing emergency medical care
to undocumented immigrants will mean services to legal residents will have to be
cut.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: White House Budget Director Leon Panetta said proposed increases in
federal aid to help disadvantaged pupils in public schools will cover some of
the illegal immigration costs that states are worried about.
940209 CA 3B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 10, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

QUAKE SCAPEGOATS WHO IS SERVED BY DENYING AID TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 341 words


A month after the Northridge earthquake hit, some California congressmen would
deny even one penny in federal disaster aid to illegal immigrants in Los
Angeles. Meanwhile, Angelenos have more important things on their minds.

Federal and state officials in charge of disaster assistance in Los Angeles
aren't demanding proof of citizenship or visas from people seeking help. This
time, there seems to be an adequate number of bilingual interviewers and
foreign-language application forms.

Nobody knows how many of the applicants are undocumented immigrants, but to the
congressmen they are the scapegoats of the moment: freeloaders, job- stealers,
welfare cheats, budget-busters, et cetera. If they were an earthquake, they'd be
the Big One.

Such nonsense may sell on Capitol Hill, but it's not playing that well in L.A.
right now. Republican Mayor Richard Riordan and Housing and Urban Development
Secretary Henry Cisneros, a Democrat, deserve credit for treating all victims of
the earthquake equally and without regard to citizen-ship or immigration status.

Who is served by denying shelter to homeless families in an emergency? What
public good is there in starving thousands, many of them children?

The answer from some on Capitol Hill is that American taxpayers shouldn't foot
the bill for people who are breaking the law by being here without permission.
The proper response is that there is more to charity and decency than paying
taxes. But in a grandstanding move, some Southern California congressmen have
amended an earthquake relief bill to deny long-term housing and small-business
loans to illegal immigrants. The bill awaits Senate action.

This is absurd. The vast majority of illegal immigrants would never dare ask for
government housing or government loans, and if they tried, federal law already
disqualifies them.

Fortunately, the bill wouldn't outlaw temporary housing aid and food stamps for
undocumented immigrants.

Life and rebuilding will go on in Los Angeles in spite of some jerks in
Washington.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 20, 1994 Sunday PENINSULA/AM EDITION
                              Correction Appended

INS ARRESTS SPUR NEW RIGHTS GROUP SWEEP ALONG EL CAMINO IN MOUNTAIN VIEW HAS
LATINOS WHO ARE U.S. CITIZENS AFRAID TO WALK ALONG THE STREET.

BYLINE: MELODY PETERSEN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1122 words


Felipe and Luz Maria Angeles so feared that immigration agents would one day
mistake them for illegal immigrants that they moved from Mountain View to
Sunnyvale.

Reynaldo Herrera, a U.S. citizen who has lived in Mountain View for 13 years, no
longer walks along El Camino Real -- the site of two INS raids this month --
because he, too, fears arrest.

And Raul Polo, who teaches English to immigrants in Mountain View, has seen the
number of students dwindle since the INS raids because they fear federal agents
might storm his class.

Such fears -- and a growing anger that Latino residents are targets of
discrimination -- are uniting the Hispanic community of Mountain View. About 20
of the city's long-term Latino residents have formed an organization to fight
for their right to walk freely down the city's streets and to demand that the
police department not work so closely with the INS.

This week, the group, Latinos Unidos de Mountain View, presented a resolution to
city officials demanding that the city take a more aggressive role in fighting
discrimination. The resolution asks the city to create a human relations
commission. And it condemns the campaign by some residents for even more arrests
of day workers, saying it shows "hateful bias, prejudice and racist sentiment
toward Latinos."

"By attacking illegal immigrants, they're attacking everybody," Herrera said,
"because if you see me on the street, you won't be able to differentiate. We're
not able to go to the stores anymore because we feel we'll be asked for
documents."

The group, made up mostly of parents, says their children now fear the police
because they've watched police officers help immigration agents. During a June
raid, police officers detained two day workers and took them away in patrol cars
to assist the INS.

"Some of these kids hide when they see police officers because they fear they
will be arrested," Herrera said. "The tension is growing."

Parents especially worry that children's mistrust of local officers could hamper
the department's successful school programs, in which officers work to keep
students off drugs and out of the city's gangs.

After about 50 Hispanic residents turned out this month at a town meeting held
by state Assemblyman John Vasconcellos, the Santa Clara Democrat set up a
meeting between Latino leaders and city, police and INS officials.

Department too involved

At the meeting, Police Chief Brown Taylor said the department got too involved
when officers detained two day workers during the June raid. That day, INS
agents arrested 40 men from Mexico, El Salvador and Guatemala in a two-block
section of El Camino Real where Hispanic men gather, looking for work as
gardeners, painters and construction workers.

The police department has now changed its policy, Taylor said. During INS raids
on Feb. 3 and Feb. 10, police officers only stopped traffic along El Camino, he
said, so if the workers ran from agents they wouldn't be run over. Agents
arrested 28 day workers during the two recent raids.

But Hispanic leaders say police involvement -- even with traffic control --
gives the impression that officers are surrounding the area to catch any day
worker who runs.

The Los Altos Police Department also has helped agents with the three INS raids,
which took place near the Mountain View-Los Altos border.

The first raid, in June, came after repeated complaints from business owners
along El Camino who say day workers scare away customers.

Coalition sent photos to INS

The raids began after a group that opposes illegal immigration, Save Mountain
View Coalition, sent the INS photos of the men standing on corners looking for
work. The group was founded last summer on a pledge to keep the city from
"becoming a Third World outpost."

In January, about 20 protesters from the coalition walked down El Camino Real
waving signs that said, "No Illegals" and "Hiring Illegals Is a Crime."
Organizer Ken Record claims more than 400 Mountain View residents have
contributed money or time to the group.

Herrera said the coalition's anti-immigrant claims are unfounded.

"They're saying we're the cause of all these economic difficulties, which is not
true," Herrera said. "They say we come only for welfare or medical treatment,
which is not right. We're not willing to let everybody believe we're causing all
of this.

"With this anti-immigrant sentiment, I can feel it -- people staring at us and
thinking I'm on welfare. . . . You can feel it everywhere."

(hbox) (hbox) (hbox)

When Felipe Angeles told his two children the family was moving to Sunnyvale in
December, one child asked, "Why do we have to move? We like Mountain View." "I'm
sorry," Angeles answered. "We have to move. Probably when you're older, you'll
understand."

Angeles, a cashier at Safeway, and his wife, Luz Maria, said they had to leave
Mountain View after eight years because "Immigration keeps coming here."

Felipe is a citizen and Luz Maria, who is here legally, has applied to be one.
But they still fear they might be arrested by mistake. They fear their children
could be left alone.

"The police have helped Immigration," Felipe said. "I have to move because
(Immigration) bothers (us) too much. If you're a citizen and you look Mexican,
they go to you and ask for papers.

"I don't want to go back," he said.

(hbox) (hbox) (hbox)

Last summer, after the INS raid, some Latino students dropped out of Raul Polo's
adult education class. Polo teaches English as a second language to immigrants.

One student told him, "The word out is that they're going to start raiding
schools, including your class." She had heard the rumors in a laundromat. "We're
afraid," she said.

"I can see the students don't feel comfortable," Polo said. "They're afraid to
go out on the streets."

(hbox) (hbox) (hbox)

Reynaldo Herrera now carries his citizenship card and the birth certificates of
his children wherever he goes.

"I'm a gardener," he said. "I'm not well-dressed." He fears a federal agent
could mistake him for an illegal immigrant.

"I've been here (in California) 15 years," he said. "I never felt it necessary
to carry documentation until now. We don't have any freedom to walk along El
Camino because we're afraid of being chased by immigration agents."

His fears and those of other Hispanics led him to help organize Latinos Unidos.
The group wants to find a peaceful solution to the problems in the racially
diverse city, where Hispanics now make up about 20 percent of the population.

"We think we're trying for something impossible in Mountain View," Herrera said.
"But we have to make things better -- for the kids especially, so they don't
feel what I'm feeling now."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Day workers:
Shorter version ran on page 1B of the Morning Final edition

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 1994

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 2/23/94, pg. 2B)
Because of an editor's error, a caption in Sunday's Mercury News misidentified a
man in a photo about day laborers in Mountain View. The man is Raul Polo, who
teaches English to immigrants.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LUCI S. WILLIAMS -- MERCURY NEWS
Reynaldo Herrera, a U.S. citizen, tells a group how he no longer walks along El
Camino Real because he fears he could be arrested by INS.
940220 LO 1B P 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 24, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILLIE BROWN PRESSES U.S. FOR IMMIGRANT AID

BYLINE: Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: Washington


California Assembly Speaker Willie Brown on Wednesday vigorously defended the
state's claims that it needs $2.3 billion in federal help to defray costs
related to undocumented immigrants.

Although the Clinton administration has questioned California Gov. Pete Wilson's
cost estimates for illegal immigration's impact on the state, Brown insisted
"they are solid."

"I'm trying my best to get it," said the speaker, who is leading more than 30
state legislators for two days of talks with federal officials on a host of
issues. "I'm probably the only guy who still believes it should be $2.3
(billion) other than Pete Wilson."

Indeed, prospects of California getting anything like what Wilson has requested
remain dim. Brown said too many members of Congress from states without
significant numbers of undocumented immigrants were "indifferent" to
California's problems.

White House Budget Director Leon Panetta this month questioned Wilson's
estimates, pointing to those provided to the administration from other states
showing dramatically lower per capita costs for undocumented immigrants.

Brown retorted, "The cost of living is much less in every other state."

The speaker held out hope that federal and state officials at least may come to
an agreement over the financial impact of illegal immigration after a summit on
the issue in California scheduled for April 28.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 6, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAND OF IMMIGRANTS TAKING LEAVE OF ITS COMPASSION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 230 words


Calls from politicians to militarize the border, build an inter-American Berlin
Wall or deny education or health care to undocumented immigrants are deplorable
solutions to the problems of impoverished conditions in neighboring countries.

People sometimes flee their native lands seeking refuge from war, human rights
abuses, unemployment and even starvation.

Except for the few surviving natives who our ancestors did not kill off, we are
all immigrants. The founding of the United States as a nation of immigrants and
refugees from the decaying societies of other countries makes us all refugees.
Immigrants are not the cause of economic depression, but rather are the victims
of global market conditions.

Economic studies, including one by the Rand Corp., show an increase in economic
activity and employment at all levels during periods of increased immigration.
Immigrants usually take the low-pay, low-prestige jobs, enabling the rest of us
to enjoy eating at restaurants, getting our cars washed and having beautiful
landscaping on our highways and office buildings at low cost. But aside from the
costs or benefits of immigration, there is a moral question that we must all
face. No human being is "illegal" or "alien." Non-documented immigrants have
inalienable rights to apply for refugee or immigrant status and due process.

- Gil Villagran

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the editor

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: D.B. Johnson--Los Angeles Times
940306 ED 6C

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 9, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OVERREACHING COPS MTN. VIEW FORCE IS NOT AN ARM OF THE IMMIGRATION SERVICE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 357 words


MOUNTAIN View Police Chief Brown Taylor can't have it both ways. His officers
are either deputies of the federal immigration cops, or they're not. Police
departments should keep their eyes on crime, not illegal immigrants.

At least three times in the past year, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents from San Jose have raided a two-block area of El Camino Real,
where Latino laborers stand around waiting for a day job. In one raid in June,
Mountain View police arrested and carried off suspected illegal immigrants in
their cruisers. Chief Taylor admitted it was a mistake, that his department got
more involved than it really wanted to.

He gave the impression he was going to stay out entirely, but then he pulled a
surprise. Mountain View police now control traffic during INS raids. Taylor says
the "presence is for safety. . . . We don't want to see anyone hurt."

Desperate laborers may bolt into traffic during a raid. But local police forces
have a compelling reason to steer clear of immigration enforcement.

To fight crime effectively, every po-lice department must win the trust of its
entire community. That includes undocumented people who are more reluctant to
come forward than others. They often live in the most neglected parts of town
and witness more than their share of crime. If undocumented persons fear
deportation at the hands of local police, they will not feel confident about
reporting crimes, cooperating in neighborhood watch programs, or testifying in
court.

It's no different in Mountain View, Los Angeles or New York. Day laborers
milling about on one or two corners are not a threat to public safety or health.
The complaints in Mountain View come from a small group of citizens who imagine
their city becoming the squalid Calcutta of Silicon Valley. To deal
constructively with day laborers, Mountain View officials should look to San
Jose, where a day laborer hiring center helps avoid loitering.

Mountain View police officers ought to fight real crime in Mountain View. They
aren't improving public safety or the quality of life in their city by becoming
deputies of the INS.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 11, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS' KIDS WOULD STILL GET WELFARE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: Washington


U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants will be allowed to collect welfare
indefinitely under a Clinton administration welfare reform plan that would limit
cash benefits to other low-income families to just two years.

But the parents of these "citizen children" will not be offered the education,
training, day care and subsidized jobs the Clinton administration intends to
give other young families on Aid to Families with Dependent Children.

Bruce Reed, a co-chairman of the president's welfare reform task force, said the
decision to exclude citizen-children from welfare reform was especially
difficult.

On the one hand, their parents, because they are here illegally, are not allowed
to work or collect AFDC. But the children, who are citizens, are legally
entitled to a monthly check.

Reed said the two-year time limits and work requirements of the president's
welfare reform plan, due out next month, would not apply to such child-only
cases, who receive smaller benefits than families with a parent on the rolls.
"The most important thing we can do to prevent such cases is to strengthen our
border patrol efforts, which the administration is fighting to do anyway," Reed
said. "It's a tough issue and the best way to deal with it is to keep people
from coming here illegally in the first place."

Some welfare and immigration experts believe the availability of welfare
benefits to children born in the United States lures illegal immigrants across
the border and taxpayers end up with the tab for the hospital bill and the
child's monthly welfare checks.

In California, the children of undocumented immigrants comprise the fastest
growing segment of the state's AFDC population, according to the congressional
testimony late last year of Theresa Parker, formerly of the state Department of
Social Services and now undersecretary of the Department of Finance.

The state had 176,800 citizen-children on its welfare rolls in 1993, more than
the combined AFDC populations of 25 other states, Parker said. It spent $236
million on their benefits.

According to Sandra R. Smoley, California's secretary of health and welfare, 40
percent of births paid for by Medi-Cal, the state's Medicaid program, are to
illegal immigrants.

"It's a national problem and national policies are driving the problem," Smoley
said in an interview this week in Washington. "We're saying 'Don't come if
you're not legal. But if you're here, we'll reward you with Medicaid and aid
(AFDC)."'

Eloise Anderson, director of the California Department of Social Services, said,
"The act of birth should not necessarily make you a citizen."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 17, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

COPS CHASE CAR WITH 13 ILLEGALS HIDING INSIDE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 175 words


Thirteen suspected illegal immigrants were taken on an 80-mile wild ride as
police chased a car through three Southern California counties before the
vehicle crashed in Santa Fe Springs, authorities said. The California Highway
Patrol began chasing the car in the Riverside County community of Temecula at
10:50 p.m. Wednesday, after dispatchers received a report of a reckless driver
northbound on Interstate 15. During a 28-minute pursuit at speeds exceeding 100
mph, the CHP chased the car through Orange County and into Los Angeles County,
where the car crashed into a guard rail. Officers were astonished when 14 people
got out of the car. Four of the adults were riding in the trunk. Two
unidentified adults complained of neck and back pain and were taken to Coast
Plaza Doctors Hospital in Norwalk for examination. The driver, who is not an
illegal immigrant, was arrested. He was not immediately identified. The 11 other
passengers, all believed to be illegal immigrants, were turned over to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 19, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON HOPEFUL AFTER LOBBYING ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: Washington


Gov. Pete Wilson left Washington on Friday satisfied that, at the very least, he
has educated some members of Congress in his two-day lobbying effort to win
federal aid for California and other states to offset costs of illegal
immigration.

Whether that will translate into votes here for the $2.5 billion the governor
wants for California remains to be seen.

But, Wilson said, "I am encouraged."

"There were a lot of people who simply had not grasped the magnitude of the
problem," he told reporters. Now, he said, many more do.

Wilson wants federal reimbursement to the state for the costs of providing
health care, schooling and incarceration of undocumented immigrants.

While past efforts to win some additional federal aid for California on illegal
immigration have foundered, Wilson said chances may be improving with a new
effort to build an alliance with other states also incurring costs from illegal
immigration.

California lawmakers are working on a variety of measures to capture federal
aid, and many of those measures are co-sponsored by members of Congress from
Florida, Texas, New York, Illinois, New Jersey, Arizona and Colorado -- all of
which also are seeking help from Washington to offset illegal immigration costs.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 29, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

I-5 FENCE REDUCES CHECKPOINT DEATHS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: San Clemente


A seven-mile chain-link fence erected at the Border Patrol checkpoint on
Interstate 5 seems to be preventing fleeing illegal immigrants from being hit by
motorists, officials say.

No pedestrian deaths or injuries have occurred for more than a year along an
18-mile stretch from Las Pulgas Road at Camp Pendleton to the checkpoint three
miles south of San Clemente, said officials from the Border Patrol and the
California Highway Patrol.

The $458,000 fence was put up in August. It is designed to keep people from
running across the freeway as they try to avoid the checkpoint.

Good luck and random factors are also being credited for the lack of deaths,
said Highway Patrol spokesman Karl Hansen.

There were four deaths in 1993, before the 8-foot-high fence was completed;
seven deaths in 1992; two in 1991; 15 in 1990; 14 in 1989; six in 1988; and five
in 1987, according to the CHP.

Hansen and others credit an aggressive public relations campaign carried out by
the CHP's Mexican liaison office for having spread the word about the dangers of
Southern California freeways.

"We see the fence as having a dramatic impact," said G.C. Geer, the agent in
charge of the San Clemente station. "But other factors have helped, too. Warning
signs went in in 1991, and Caltrans started stripping away vegetation in the
median in 1992."

That was the same year the CHP also launched a speed reduction campaign.

None of the measures has eliminated illegal immigration near the checkpoint.
More than 50,000 illegal immigrants were apprehended there in 1993, Geer said.
Despite that, there has been speculation the San Clemente checkpoint and another
checkpoint on Interstate 15 south of Temecula eventually may be closed and all
agents used instead at the San Diego-Tijuana international border.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 6, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMNESTY-SCAM CHARGES FACE LATIN LEADER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 166 words


The president of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), one of
the nation's largest Hispanic organizations, was indicted in Las Vegas Tuesday
in connection with an alleged amnesty scam involving thousands of illegal
immigrants.

Federal prosecutors charged that Jose Velez conspired with three Taiwanese
immigration consultants to "create and supply" false documents and statements
for illegal immigration.

The indictment charges that the conspirators "recruited large numbers of
unqualified aliens and brought them to Las Vegas, sometimes by the bus load"
from March 1988 to January 1991. Many of the recruits were wealthy Taiwanese
citizens, who were sometimes charged fees as high as $45,000 per application,
the indictment said.

Edward Marshall, attorney for Velez, declined comment, saying he had not yet
seen the indictment. Velez, who was born in Nicaragua, was LULAC's Nevada
director and now runs an immigration-consultant business, Velez and Sons Inc.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 12, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOAT SPOTTED NEAR COAST SUSPECTED OF CARRYING CHINESE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: San Diego


A 180-foot vessel suspected of carrying an unknown number of Chinese illegal
immigrants was spotted 240 miles west-southwest of San Diego, officials said
Monday.

The boat, called the Jin Yinn No. 1, first was discovered by a Coast Guard C-130
aircraft on routine patrol in the Pacific Ocean off the Baja California
peninsula Saturday, officials said.

The vessel's country of origin was not immediately known.

On Monday, the Coast Guard and the Immigration and Naturalization Service were
pursuing the vessel with two cutters. The boat turned west toward the open seas
and was not answering radio communications, the Coast Guard said.

In July, the Coast Guard intercepted more than 650 undocumented Chinese on three
boats in the same international waters.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
The Jin Yinn No. 1 was discovered by the Coast Guard on Saturday.
940412 CA 3B 4

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 18, 1994 Monday STOCK FINAL EDITION

SUSPECTED SMUGGLING SHIP SNARED 111 ALLEGED CHINESE ILLEGALS ABOARD

BYLINE: JOHN ANTCZAK, Associated Press, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


A suspected Taiwanese smuggling vessel with 111 Chinese immigrants aboard was
being escorted toward land by the U.S. Coast Guard, authorities said today.

The 168-foot fishing vessel Jin Yinn No. 1 was seized by the Coast Guard off
Mexico on Saturday, a week after it was spotted by a U.S. patrol plane and
shadowed by Coast Guard cutters for days to prevent its entry into U.S. waters.

The boarding party found 111 passengers -- 10 women and 101 men -- as well as 10
crewmen aboard the vessel and all appeared healthy, Coast Guard District
headquarters in Long Beach said Sunday.

"The persons appear to be Chinese nationals," said Julie Reside, a State
Department duty officer in Washington, D.C. "This incident has all the
characteristics of an alien smuggling venture."

A Coast Guard statement said the Jin Yinn No. 1 was being "escorted eastward."

Although that direction from the point of seizure indicated the vessel was being
taken toward Mexican waters, as was done with three smuggler's boats last
summer, U.S. authorities would not confirm the destination.

Chief Warrant Officer John Hollis said the boat was about seven days from land.

"As in past incidents our intention is to return those aboard the vessel to the
country of origin as quickly as possible," Reside said.

"At the moment we're considering a number of alternatives," she said.

The United States has tried to keep smuggled immigrants from landing in the
country because asylum seekers can stay for years while their requests are
resolved. Mexico, however, can repatriate immigrants immediately.

The West Coast has experienced a flurry of attempts to land undocumented Chinese
from oceangoing vessels. There have also been incidents on the East Coast,
including a grounding off New York in which eight immigrants died.

The Jin Yinn No. 1 was spotted April 9 by a Coast Guard aircraft 400 miles
southwest of San Diego and two cutters intercepted it two days later 290 miles
west-southwest of San Diego, said Petty Officer Shannon Knight.

The vessel would not respond to requests to stop and started heading back out to
sea, authorities said.

Law enforcement teams from the cutters Sherman and Active boarded the Jin Yinn
when it finally came to a stop about 12:30 p.m. about 890 miles southwest of San
Diego.

"They were having problems with lube oil for the engine so they were pretty much
forced to stop because their engines weren't working anymore," Knight said.

The Taiwanese government gave its permission for the boarding of the Jin Yinn,
Hollis said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 21, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE VOTES TO SHARE COST OF JAILING ILLEGALS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: Washington


Prodded by Southern California lawmakers, the House voted overwhelmingly
Wednesday either to reimburse state and local governments for the cost of
imprisoning criminals who are illegal immigrants or transfer them to federal
custody.

In further action on its tough crime bill, the House narrowly kept intact a
provision that would allow convicts to escape the death penalty if they could
prove racial discrimination in similar cases.

The reimbursement provision, added to the crime bill by a vote of 402-22, would
require the federal government to deliver on a promise that has remained
unfulfilled for eight years. Before the provision can become law, however, the
Senate also would have to give its approval.

The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act provided that states were entitled
to reimbursement for the costs of imprisoning illegal immigrants, but Congress
has never appropriated the funds.

Although the payments would not become mandatory until after 1998, the chief
sponsors of the measure said the Clinton administration is committed to spending
sizable amounts of money before then to relieve financial burdens on states with
high numbers of illegal immigrants.

California has projected that 18,000 undocumented felons in its prisons will
cost the state about $375 million this year.

The death penalty provision approved Wednesday would effectively apply to
executions the same sorts of numerical yardsticks long used to support charges
of racial bias in housing, hiring, credit and other civil rights arenas.

And it would utterly undo existing law, which, since a 1987 Supreme Court
ruling, has made such statistics all but irrelevant in death-row appeals.

The provision would allow convicts to use racial statistics from similar crimes
in the same jurisdiction to convince a court that race affects local executions.
Such statistics suggest far more minority-group members and far more people who
kill whites are sentenced to die.

"It will help ferret out the subtle and not so subtle influence of race in death
sentencing," said Rep. Don Edwards, D-San Jose, sponsor of the proposal. "In
some jurisdictions in America, the death penalty is still applied in a racially
discriminatory manner," he said.

The debate over the role of race in executions came as Congress tried to play
catch-up with the states by adding dozens of crimes to the federal death penalty
list.

Edwards said the rising tide of state executions and likely boomlet of federal
death sentences are compelling reasons to give minority groups protection
against bias in sentencing.

Records suggest that minority convicts are sentenced to death more frequently
than might be expected statistically. Of the 2,800 men and women now on death
row, half are members of minority groups. Blacks are sentenced to death at a
rate four times their share of the population.

Numbers also suggest that the race of the victim affects the fates of those
convicted of murder.

"Those who murdered whites were found to be more likely to be sentenced to death
than those who murdered blacks," concluded a 1990 study by the General
Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress.

Nationally, 89 percent of the executions last year involved white victims,
though 50 percent of the nation's murder victims were black.

"Such evidence cries out for review," Edwards said.

Edwards' answer would allow defendants to produce statistics showing a
"significant" pattern of racial discrimination in similar cases in the same
jurisdiction.

However, "it is not enough to show that blacks get the death penalty more
frequently than whites," said Edwards. Defendants would have to show that
non-whites get the death penalty "significantly" more frequently than whites for
the same type of offense.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chart not taken in database
Steven Thomma of the Mercury News Washington bureau contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
Death row inmates by race
Source: National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty
9404021 FR 14A 2; pie chart

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 21, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON TOUR FOCUSES ON IMMIGRATION THE GOVERNOR TRAVELS TO TEXAS TO DRAW
ATTENTION TO AN INCREASINGLY POPULAR FISCAL ISSUE.

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1060 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


When Gov. Pete Wilson peers into Mexico from across a flat Rio Grande valley
today, he'll spy a badly needed public relations boon and a knotty policy
headache: the effects of immigration.

In sharp contrast to the cries of condemnation he collected when he first
wandered onto this political minefield three years ago, the Republican governor
has since found targeting illegal immigrants increasingly comfortable terrain.

While polls show that his anti-illegal immigration drumbeat is a clear winner
for Wilson, his decision to devote a near-solid week of events to highlight what
he calls the dramatic fiscal drain of unlawful immigrants is already drawing
fire.

"It's very clear that Gov. Wilson is concerned about numbers, but they are not
the numbers adding up the costs of illegal immigration," said U.S. Rep. Xavier
Bacerra, D-Los Angeles. "He's more concerned about the number of votes he'll get
in November. That's his real concern here."

Wilson travels to El Paso, Texas, today to glimpse an experimental policy --
dubbed a border blockade -- that deploys hundreds of agents across a 20- mile
stretch of the Rio Grande. The program -- difficult to deploy along California's
much more rugged borderlands -- is credited with trimming illegal crossings by
more than 70 percent.

Suing federal government

After a week of speeches and media interviews across the state, Wilson is
expected to return to the border next week -- this time in San Diego -- with the
filing of California's lawsuit against the federal government for some of the
$2.3 billion it estimates it costs the state to educate, jail and treat illegal
immigrants.

"What's at stake in the crudest sense is 10 percent of our general fund budget,"
said Wilson's new communications director, Leslie Goodman. "We want to focus the
nation's attention on a failed federal responsibility."

The Wilson administration's tabulation of what illegal immigration costs
California taxpayers is now an arresting and omnipresent part of the governor's
stump speech.

"If Washington continues to force states to provide these services without
reimbursing us for the costs," Wilson said earlier this month, "we are driven to
cut services for our own legal residents."

He said it costs $400 million to incarcerate, $400 million to treat, and $1.7
billion to educate people in the state illegally. And that's money, he points
out, that lawful residents can't use.

"It's an issue that touches a number of different political hot buttons," said
Mark DiCamillo, director of the Field Poll, which found that 61 percent of
Californians say they are extremely concerned about it. "It touches the issue of
crime, the issue of schools, the issue of the state budget deficit. It is
certainly an issue with currency in this year's governor's race."

'Pumping up the numbers'

Critics, who concede it's difficult to assail Wilson for attacking a de facto
illegal act, now take another tack with the GOP governor, charging, in essence,
that he's cooking his numbers.

"What we object to is his exaggerated numbers, his inflammatory rhetoric and his
tactics," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration
Forum, a pro-immigration coalition. "The tactics he's using have more to do with
getting re-elected than they have to do with pulling down more federal money for
immigration. His excessive estimates undermine his effectiveness."

For example, said Sharry, Wilson uses U.S. Census Bureau data to support his
claim that 2 million illegal immigrants cost the state $2.3 billion. Numbers
from the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service are dramatically more
conservative, at 1.3 million immigrants.

"My quarrel with Wilson is he's pumping up the numbers," said Robert Rubin,
assistant director of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights of the San
Francisco Bay Area. "The numbers are completely unrealistic. It's classic
political scapegoating."

Wilson's critics are also irked that the governor is loath to make part of his
immigration equation the gas, sales, payroll and property taxes paid by
undocumented workers. And, they charge, he is unreasonably cool to any plan to
step up sanctions against employers who hire illegal immigrants.

"This is not a blame game," said Wilson spokeswoman Goodman. "It's not about
race. It's about responsibility. It's about a finite pool of resources and about
the fact that one-tenth of our resources are being siphoned away."

Compared with David Duke

Indeed, Wilson, who in 1991 was called a racist and compared with former Ku Klux
Klansman David Duke for speaking out for immigration control, has received some
important political inoculation on this issue. Both of California's U.S.
senators -- Democrats Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein -- have called for
stiffened border patrols. And his chief Democratic gubernatorial rival, state
Treasurer Kathleen Brown, has called for tamper- proof Social Security cards and
a $1 border toll.

If Wilson is attacked as a demagogue by some liberals, he's assailed as too
timid by more conservative immigration groups working to shore up a porous
border.

Ira Mehlman, California spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, says Wilson needs to be tougher in calling for strict border controls
and curtailment of illegal immigration.

Supporters of a proposed ballot initiative that would deny illegal immigrants
all taxpayer benefits, including education, are urging Wilson to publicly back
their efforts.

Bigger worry than crime

"People are concerned about crime but illegal immigration is a more far-
reaching problem than crime is," said Harold Ezell, a former western regional
INS commissioner and co-author of the proposed ballot measure. "Wilson had the
guts to speak up first. Now it's no longer a Republican or a Democratic issue.
It's mainstream."

Despite the photographs and television news video of Wilson's border appearance
today in Texas, one immigration expert said the governor's visit will shed
little light on California's immigration debate.

"He's going to see that the streets have fewer kids raising hell and it looks a
little more peaceful," said Rodolfo O. de la Garza, a government professor at
the University of Texas at Austin. "But you know what? The immigrants have just
moved their point of entry."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Wilson
940421 CA 3B 3

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 23, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON ASKS CONGRESS FOR ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT FUNDS REACTION: GOV. PETE WILSON
SAYS THE STATE WILL SUE FOR MORE AID ANYWAY.

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


President Clinton asked Congress on Friday for $350 million to reimburse states
for imprisoning illegal-immigrant felons, but Gov. Pete Wilson said California
will sue the federal government next week for more aid anyway.

"It's a welcome step -- if not as large as is required," Wilson said after the
White House announcement.

The Republican governor said Friday's pledge from Clinton is for roughly half of
what congressional budget experts say states pay to lock up illegal immigrants
charged with felonies: $600 million.

He said that cost in California alone is $400 million.

"We will be pleased when the amount of the appropriations is something that
approaches the actual costs to the states," Wilson said.

California is expected to file one in a series of lawsuits in U.S. District
Court in San Diego next week, following similar actions by Florida and New York.

Although those suits differ in substance and in legal approach, all make the
same charge: The federal government controls U.S. borders and it must pay for
services provided unlawful immigrants.

Leon Panetta, Clinton's budget chief and a former California congressman, said
the states should devote more energy to lobbying Congress for extra money than
taking the federal government to court for failure to stem illegal immigration.
Calls for partnership

"This has to be a partnership in which we work with the states," Panetta said.
"It would be much better for the states to work with us and to spend a little
more time on Capitol Hill."

But Panetta acknowledged what Wilson said was his chief fear: Budget constraints
make Clinton's request Friday hardly a guarantee. New money has been authorized
for the past eight years but never made available through appropriations.

"It's not going to be easy," Panetta said.

While Wilson declined to detail exactly how much California will ask for in its
lawsuits, he has said California now pays $400 million to incarcerate, $400
million to medically treat and $1.7 billion to educate people in this state
illegally.

"It should be Congress that corrects what has been a gross injustice," Wilson
said. "On the other hand, if they are only partially correcting it, we have no
alternative than to go forward with the lawsuit."

A senior Wilson administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said the first suit, to be filed Friday, will seek 100 percent reimbursement for
incarceration costs.

The state Department of Corrections estimates there will be 18,112 illegal
immigrants in California's prisons in the 1994-'95 fiscal year. The state says
it costs $20,751 to imprison an inmate for one year.

The official said she did not know when a hearing on the state's suit could be
expected and acknowledged that resolution may take several years.

'Uphill struggle'

"What we're really asking the courts to do here is to try to make the political
process work," the official said. "We all recognize that it's something of an
uphill struggle to do this kind of suit. . . . Things change when they have to,
and we have reached the point where they have to."

She said U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service will be named defendants in the California suit. The
state will be represented by Attorney General Dan Lungren's office.

"We will be asking for some money that has already been expended in order to
make us whole," Wilson said.

Florida's suit, filed two weeks ago, seeks payment for the costs of illegal
immigration that it contends it has been unfairly forced to shoulder because
Washington has failed to halt illegal immigrants.

Panetta said the new effort to help the states bear the costs of incarcerating
illegal immigrants is in addition to $368 million -- primarily for education and
health -- already in the 1995 federal budget.

"This is an emotional issue, and it has to be handled fairly and with
responsibility," Panetta said. "If we are not careful, it can be used to inflame
the public and become a political whipping boy."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wires services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 27, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAYING FOR PRISONERS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT INMATES ARE A FEDERAL PROBLEM TOO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 193 words


SOME illegal immigrants wind up in California prisons. Somebody has to pay for
their incarceration. Gov. Pete Wilson thinks it should be the federal
government.

It's a nice idea, as long as Wilson remains realistic about the chances it will
happen.

On Friday, California will sue the federal government for $377 million, which
Wilson says is the cost of housing illegal immigrant felons in state prisons.
The feds should chip in because border and visa control are federal
responsibilities, and because some states like California attract more
immigrants than other states.

President Clinton agrees. He's offered $350 million to help states house illegal
immigrant prisoners (California's share could be $200 million). He's beefing up
the U.S. Border Patrol, especially south of San Diego. And the House just passed
a crime bill that would require the feds to pay for undocumented felons starting
in 1998.

Wilson's suit objects to one layer of government setting policy that another
layer has to pay for. He may regret a victory. Cities and counties would be
delighted to use a court decision to overturn mandates from Sacramento.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 29, 1994 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

WILSON SUES U.S. OVER ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HIGH COSTS: WANTS $2 BILLION AS
REIMBURSEMENT FOR ESCALATING BILLS.

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1057 words

DATELINE: San Diego


Gov. Pete Wilson, quickening an angry drumbeat among states charging that
illegal immigrants are swamping their budgets, sued the federal government today
for nearly $2 billion.

"California has had enough, and it's time to stop illegal immigration," Wilson
told reporters after he personally filed the suit in federal court in San Diego.

"The remedy sought is essential to the survival of the state of California,"
states the 34-page complaint Wilson filed this morning just miles from one of
America's most porous borderlands.

California's lawsuit follows similar action by Florida, which in mid-April sued
for $1.5 billion in immigration reimbursements. New York also has sued the
United States, and several other states are pondering legal action.

Although those suits take different legal tacks, they make identical charges:
The federal government is legally responsible for control of U.S. borders, and
it must pay for services provided unlawful immigrants.

"If the federal government were held accountable, they would quickly discover
that the cost of ignoring the real and explosively growing problem of illegal
immigration is far greater than the cost of fixing it," Wilson said.

Wilson's legal advisers would not handicap the state's chances for success,
although they conceded final resolution could take several years. New York's
lawsuit, for example, was filed in 1990 and still is pending.

Today's lawsuit is one of several the state intends to file in federal court.
Future lawsuits will seek $2 billion more that the state claims to spend
annually to educate and medically treat illegal immigrants.

"Congress must be forced to bear the fiscal consequences for its immigration
policy," Wilson told a Los Angeles audience early this week. "If they feel the
(financial) pinch in the federal budget, then and only then will they have an
incentive to fix this policy that simply doesn't work."

Prisoner reimbursement

Today's lawsuit seeks $377.2 million -- the amount Wilson said it will cost
California taxpayers to imprison illegal aliens at an estimated per-prisoner
cost of $21,000 a year.

And in an unexpected twist, the state also asks the federal court to order
reimbursement of $1.6 billion for the eight state prisons it says it takes to
house the illegal immigrant-felons behind bars.

Taxpayers paid $200 million to construct each of those prisons.

The Republican governor said state prisons this year will hold more than 17,000
illegal immigrants -- triple the number held here in 1988 and five times more
than any other state.

"Reimbursement would allow those funds to be expended by the state of California
in accordance with the needs of its residents rather than to implement federal
immigration policy," the state's complaint says.

Wilson wants the court to order the deportation of all inmates who can be
expelled under federal law. The suit asks the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service to take into custody those who have completed their
sentences but whose deportation cases are pending.

And he wants a federal court order that deported immigrants be shipped well
inside their country of origin instead of being simply bused to the border and
released.

"Transportation of deportees to the border and release by 'dropping them off at
the border' does not constitute 'deportation' as required by law," the suit
states.

Panetta, Reno named

Defendants include U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno, INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner and Leon Panetta, President Clinton's budget chief and a former
California congressman.

Wilson aides said they don't know when a hearing on today's suit might occur.
They acknowledged that resolution could take several years.

The chief legal underpinning of today's lawsuit is the state's claim that the
federal government's immigration practices violate the U.S. Constitution's 10th
Amendment, which spells out the authority of states.

Wilson charges that California must spend 10 percent of its general fund budget
on immigration services that, by law, are the responsibility of the United
States. The governor has estimated that fully half of those who enter the U.S.
illegally cross the rugged international border that divides San Diego and
Tijuana.

California's lawsuit comes one week after President Clinton said he will ask
Congress for $350 million to help states pay for prison costs for illegal
immigrant felons.

And while Wilson called that a welcome step, he dismissed it as too little, too
late.

Political cover

Wilson desperately needs full federal reimbursement if he is to balance his
1994-'95 budget without further severe cutbacks in state programs or higher
taxes or fees. The lawsuit gives the governor important political cover in this
year's budget debate because -- with Democratic complicity -- California
budget-writers are counting on total reimbursement even though they openly
acknowledge that won't happen.

That means the fiscal 1995 budget won't be balanced until this fall, when
Congress completes work on the federal budget, or perhaps until next year.

The Clinton administration has said flatly it has no intention of forwarding the
full amount California will seek in court, but it counseled Wilson last week to
work with Congress for some additional money instead of petitioning the court.

"This has to be a partnership in which we work with the states," Panetta said.
"It would be much better for the states to work with us and to spend a little
more time on Capitol Hill."

Panetta said the new effort to help the states bear the costs of incarcerating
aliens is in addition to $368 million -- primarily for education and health --
already in the 1995 federal budget.

Wilson has been criticized by some Democrats as being more concerned about his
own re-election this fall than in recovering the immigration-related costs.

Assembly Speaker Willie Brown, D-San Francisco, said this week he agreed with
critics who have called Wilson an immigrant basher.

"I do not support a lawsuit, will not endorse the lawsuit and will not be a part
of the lawsuit," Brown told reporters this week. "I think the lawsuit is
counterproductive and I think it will inhibit or impede the efforts to develop a
better dialogue with the Clinton administration."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 29, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON TO FILE $2 BILLION SUIT AGAINST U.S. OVER IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1049 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


Gov. Pete Wilson, quickening an angry drumbeat among states charging that
illegal immigrants are swamping their budgets, will sue the federal government
today for nearly $2 billion.

"The remedy sought is essential to the survival of the state of California,"
states the 34-page complaint Wilson will file this morning in U.S. District
Court in San Diego, just miles from one of America's most porous borderlands.

California's lawsuit follows similar action by Florida, which in mid-April sued
for $1.5 billion in immigration reimbursements. New York also has sued the
United States, and several other states are pondering legal action.

Although those suits take different legal tacks, they make identical charges:
The federal government is legally responsible for control of U.S. borders, and
it must pay for services provided unlawful immigrants.

"If the federal government were held accountable, they would quickly discover
that the cost of ignoring the real and explosively growing problem of illegal
immigration is far greater than the cost of fixing it," Wilson said.

Wilson's legal advisers would not handicap the state's chances for success,
although they conceded final resolution could take several years. New York's
lawsuit, for example, was filed in 1990 and still is pending.

Today's lawsuit, copies of which were distributed to reporters at the Capitol
Thursday, is one of several the state intends to file in federal court. Future
lawsuits will seek $2 billion more that the state claims to spend annually to
educate and medically treat illegal immigrants.

"Congress must be forced to bear the fiscal consequences for its immigration
policy," Wilson told a Los Angeles audience early this week. "If they feel the
(financial) pinch in the federal budget, then and only then will they have an
incentive to fix this policy that simply doesn't work."

Prisoner reimbursement

Today's lawsuit seeks $377.2 million -- the amount Wilson said it will cost
California taxpayers to imprison illegal aliens at an estimated per-prisoner
cost of $21,000 a year.

And in an unexpected twist, the state also asks the federal court to order
reimbursement of $1.6 billion for the eight state prisons it says it takes to
house the illegal immigrant-felons behind bars.

Taxpayers paid $200 million to construct each of those prisons.

The Republican governor said state prisons this year will hold more than 17,000
illegal immigrants -- triple the number held here in 1988 and five times more
than any other state.

"Reimbursement would allow those funds to be expended by the state of California
in accordance with the needs of its residents rather than to implement federal
immigration policy," the state's complaint says.

Wilson wants the court to order the deportation of all inmates who can be
expelled under federal law. The suit asks the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service to take into custody those who have completed their
sentences but whose deportation cases are pending.

And he wants a federal court order that deported immigrants be shipped well
inside their country of origin instead of being simply bused to the border and
released.

"Transportation of deportees to the border and release by 'dropping them off at
the border' does not constitute 'deportation' as required by law," the suit
states.

Panetta, Reno named

Defendants include U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno, INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner and Leon Panetta, President Clinton's budget chief and a former
California congressman.

Wilson aides said they don't know when a hearing on today's suit might occur.
They acknowledged that resolution could take several years.

The chief legal underpinning of today's lawsuit is the state's claim that the
federal government's immigration practices violate the U.S. Constitution's 10th
Amendment, which spells out the authority of states.

Wilson charges that California must spend 10 percent of its general fund budget
on immigration services that, by law, are the responsibility of the United
States. The governor has estimated that fully half of those who enter the U.S.
illegally cross the rugged international border that divides San Diego and
Tijuana.

California's lawsuit comes one week after President Clinton said he will ask
Congress for $350 million to help states pay for prison costs for illegal
immigrant felons.

And while Wilson called that a welcome step, he dismissed it as too little, too
late.

Political cover

Wilson desperately needs full federal reimbursement if he is to balance his
1994-'95 budget without further severe cutbacks in state programs or higher
taxes or fees. The lawsuit gives the governor important political cover in this
year's budget debate because -- with Democratic complicity -- California
budget-writers are counting on total reimbursement even though they openly
acknowledge that won't happen.

That means the fiscal 1995 budget won't be balanced until this fall, when
Congress completes work on the federal budget, or perhaps until next year.

The Clinton administration has said flatly it has no intention of forwarding the
full amount California will seek in court, but it counseled Wilson last week to
work with Congress for some additional money instead of petitioning the court.

"This has to be a partnership in which we work with the states," Panetta said.
"It would be much better for the states to work with us and to spend a little
more time on Capitol Hill."

Panetta said the new effort to help the states bear the costs of incarcerating
aliens is in addition to $368 million -- primarily for education and health --
already in the 1995 federal budget.

Wilson has been criticized by some Democrats as being more concerned about his
own re-election this fall than in recovering the immigration-related costs.

Assembly Speaker Willie Brown, D-San Francisco, said this week he agreed with
critics who have called Wilson an immigrant basher.

"I do not support a lawsuit, will not endorse the lawsuit and will not be a part
of the lawsuit," Brown told reporters this week. "I think the lawsuit is
counterproductive and I think it will inhibit or impede the efforts to develop a
better dialogue with the Clinton administration."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 10, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION HEMORRHAGE

BYLINE: PETE WILSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 812 words


TODAY IN Los Angeles, illegal immigrants and their children total nearly a
million people. That's a city of illegal immigrants the size of San Diego,
America's sixth largest. And by the Clinton administration's own estimates, an
additional 100,000 illegal immigrants cross the border into California every
year.

Our schools, our hospitals, and our social services are overwhelmed by the
federal government's failure to control the border. California's hard-pressed
taxpayers, who are already reeling from natural disasters and federal defense
cuts, need relief now.

It might be hard for people in Washington to fully understand the urgency or the
impact of massive illegal immigration on California -- they talk of doing
something next year. But the numbers are shocking. Two-thirds of all babies born
in L.A. public hospitals are born to parents who have illegally entered the
United States. The cost to California taxpayers of federally required health
care for illegal immigrants has grown eighteenfold, to $400 million in just six
years. And while for the third year running California will be facing the
painful necessity of cutting state services, its taxpayers will be compelled by
federal law to spend millions incarcerating enough illegal immigrants to fill
eight state prisons.

The cost to California of providing federally mandated services to illegals and
their families is more than $3 billion a year -- nearly 10 percent of a state
budget that has already been reduced by $4 billion in the past two years.
California simply cannot afford this continual hemorrhaging in its budget. But
some congressional leaders in Washington appear not to have gotten the message.
In March, when both houses of Congress adopted language directing the federal
government to reimburse states for the cost of education, incarceration and
emergency health care for illegal immigrants, House Majority Leader Richard
Gephardt was quoted as saying: "Let us please not burden every piece of
legislation that comes through here with an added responsibility to enforce the
immigration laws of this country."

Well, excuse me, Mr. Majority Leader. Since when was enforcing the laws of our
country a responsibility the federal government could choose to ignore? It is
the federal government alone that has jurisdiction and the responsibility for
devising and implementing immigration law and policy.

I've already urged President Clinton to do what's necessary to control our
borders and stop the flood of illegal immigrants into California. But
controlling the border alone isn't enough. What the governors of New York,
Florida, Texas, Illinois, Arizona, and New Jersey have joined me in demanding is
that the federal government take responsibility for the cost of federally
mandated services to illegal immigrants.

Under the government's perverse immigration policy, we have a federal Border
Patrol to keep illegal immigrants out, while the federal government compels the
states to provide free health care, education, and other benefits to illegal
immigrants -- a powerful incentive for slipping in.

These mandates should either be abolished or Washington should pay the bill.
President Clinton did not create this problem; he inherited it. But the
spiraling costs of illegal immigration make it imperative that he and Congress
act now to solve it. They could start by attaching an amendment to the crime
bill that acknowledges the federal government's responsibility to pay the costs
of illegal immigrants in state prisons.

And if Congress and the Clinton administration won't act to relieve these
mandates, maybe the courts will. The exploding costs of unfunded mandates have
already driven Florida and California to the drastic step of filing lawsuits
against the federal government for repayment. These suits are just the first
signal of a bipartisan rebellion brewing among the states.

Congress and President Clinton need to do three things:

* They must control the border and stop massive illegal immigration. That means
major increases in the dedicated but grossly understaffed Border Patrol. * They
must repeal the federal mandates that require the state to spend billions on
services for illegal immigrants. What sense does it make to even have a Border
Patrol to enforce a system of elaborate quotas and criteria, and then undermine
it by creating incentives that reward those who succeed in evading the Border
Patrol?

* Until it has repealed these mandates, the federal government must reimburse
the states in full for performing responsibilities that are exclusively federal.
It is simply not fair that the states are required to spend for illegal
immigrants, and as a result, must deny needed services to their own legal
residents.

In California, we simply can't wait any longer. We need immigration reform, and
we need it now.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Pete Wilson is governor of California. He wrote this article for the Washington
Post.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: TIM BRINTON
940510 ED 7B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 12, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TOWN PUZZLES OVER CRYOGENICS PROJECT FOUND IN A STORAGE SHED COOL RESPONSE TO
FROZEN BODIES

BYLINE: CLAY EVANS, Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: Nederland, Colo.


POLICE in this rough-edged mountain town have recovered two frozen bodies from
the home of an illegal immigrant from Norway. The charge they're considering is
not murder but illegal storage.

Trygve Bauge, 36, the keeper of the bodies, was not on hand for the raid on his
bunker-style home Tuesday. After more than 10 years as an illegal resident in
the United States and two months on the lam from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he was nabbed in a Boulder supermarket May 4 and flown
back to his native Norway.

Bauge left behind his mother, Aud Morstoel. He also left two bodies -- those of
his grandfather, Bredo Morstoel, who died of a heart attack in 1989, and a
Chicago man named Al Campbell, who died of a kidney ailment -- packed in an
insulated box in a storage shed and a standing order for dry- ice deliveries.
After Bauge was sent back to Norway, Nederland officials declared the house
uninhabitable until a building inspector had checked it because Bauge did not
have a certificate of occupancy for the property -- in violation of town law.
Aud Morstoel then let the cat out of the bag: If she were evicted, she told a
newspaper reporter, who would care for the bodies?

Officials then contacted Bauge at his father's house in Oslo, and Bauge
confirmed to police that he was storing the bodies on his property.

The storage project is part of Bauge's long-term interest in cryonics, the
practice of freezing the body of a person who has just died in order to preserve
it for possible resuscitation in the future.

When his grandfather died, he arranged for the body to be flown from Norway to
Oakland, where it was stored for four years in a cryogenics facility called
Trans Time in hopes that he might someday be revived or reproduced from his
preserved DNA.

The body of Bredo Morstoel had been moved to the Nederland storage shed "quite a
while" ago, Aud Morstoel told authorities. Campbell's body was put into the shed
in February, she said.

When authorities, armed with a search warrant, peeked into the storage shed
Tuesday afternoon, they saw a 4-foot-high, thickly insulated wooden box
containing a frost-rimmed, chained stainless-steel coffin holding Bredo
Morstoel, and a green sleeping bag containing Campbell's body. On top of the
bodies they found a stack of dry ice wrapped in brown paper and a ther mometer
indicating a temperature lower than 60 degrees below zero.

"I feel like I'm in a David Lynch movie," said Nederland Mayor Bryan Brown, who
watched the bizarre proceedings.

Bauge, best known for founding Boulder's Polar Bear Club -- whose adherents leap
into 34-degree water in the Boulder Reservoir each New Year's Day -- called the
Boulder Daily Camera on Tuesday from Oslo to discuss his research.

"I look on ice swimming as training sessions for later cryonics suspension, to
see what my body can handle and what it can take," he said.

On Feb. 14, Bauge sat in a tub of ice-cold water for 64 minutes, breaking his
own record for ice-bathing.

Bauge insisted the bodies on his property were "widespread knowledge" and said
"if they try to remove the bodies, I am holding everyone up there legally
responsible."

"I will sue them until hell freezes over," he said.

But freezing wasn't the main concern for Nederland officials Tuesday. It was
defrosting they were worried about. Nobody was quite certain what, if any, laws
were being violated by Bauge's makeshift cryogenics lab, but Marshal Hugh Pitzer
said several times he did not think "it is a criminal matter."

"It does bother me a little bit," said Shirley Filer, who with her husband,
Jack, is building a house about 100 feet up the hill from Bauge's unusual
steel-and-concrete home. "What's going to come of this if they start
defrosting?"

The bodies looked in no danger of defrosting any time soon, with temperatures
hovering below the 60-below-zero mark in the dry-ice-packed container. Bauge's
mother said two of his friends had been repacking the container with 800 pounds
of dry ice every 14 days.

If the dry-ice packs are discontinued, "Al Campbell would dry up and (my)
grandfather would rot away," Bauge said. "That would be horrendous."

Bauge emphasized that the bodies are packed tightly within several layers of
insulation and are "no danger to the public at all."

What happens next? Neither the Boulder County Coroner's Office nor the Boulder
County Department of Health considered the matter urgent enough to respond
Tuesday. Nederland town officials made it clear that the bodies will not be on
ice in their town for long.

"Nobody is supposed to be up there, dead or alive," Pitzer said, referring to
the decision by the town to rule the peculiar house where Bauge had lived with
his mother "uninhabitable" until the town building inspector could have a look.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map;
PHOTO: JAY QUADRACCI -- KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
Bryan Brown, the mayor of Nederland, Colo., inspects the dry-ice-covered bodies
of two men found on the premises of a man who has since been deported.
940512 FR 15A
MAP: Mercury News
Nederland

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 12, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

IT'S ABOUT THOSE FROZEN BODIES . . . ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT IS SENT PACKING, BUT HIS
FREEZER PRESENTS A PROBLEM

BYLINE: CLAY EVANS, Knight-Ridder News Service

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 802 words

DATELINE: Nederland, Colo.


Police in this rough-edged mountain town have recovered two frozen bodies from
the home of an illegal immigrant from Norway. The charge they're considering is
not murder but illegal storage.

Trygve Bauge, 36, the keeper of the bodies, was not on hand for the raid on his
bunker-style home Tuesday. After more than 10 years as an illegal resident in
the United States and two months on the lam from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he was nabbed in a Boulder supermarket May 4 and flown
back to his native Norway.

Bauge left behind his mother, Aud Morstoel. He also left two bodies -- those of
his grandfather, Bredo Morstoel, who died of a heart attack in 1989, and a
Chicago man named Al Campbell, who died of a kidney ailment -- packed in an
insulated box in a storage shed and a standing order for dry- ice deliveries.
After Bauge was sent back to Norway, Nederland officials declared the house
uninhabitable until a building inspector had checked it because Bauge did not
have a certificate of occupancy for the property -- in violation of town law.
Aud Morstoel then let the cat out of the bag: If she were evicted, she told a
newspaper reporter, who would care for the bodies?

Officials then contacted Bauge at his father's house in Oslo, and Bauge
confirmed to police that he was storing the bodies on his property.

The storage project is part of Bauge's long-term interest in cryonics, the
practice of freezing the body of a person who has just died in order to preserve
it for possible resuscitation in the future.

When his grandfather died, he arranged for the body to be flown from Norway to
Oakland, where it was stored for four years in a cryogenics facility called
Trans Time in hopes that he might someday be revived or reproduced from his
preserved DNA.

The body of Bredo Morstoel had been moved to the Nederland storage shed "quite a
while" ago, Aud Morstoel told authorities. Campbell's body was put into the shed
in February, she said.

When authorities, armed with a search warrant, peeked into the storage shed
Tuesday afternoon, they saw a 4-foot-high, thickly insulated wooden box
containing a frost-rimmed, chained stainless-steel coffin holding Bredo
Morstoel, and a green sleeping bag containing Campbell's body. On top of the
bodies they found a stack of dry ice wrapped in brown paper and a thermometer
indicating a temperature lower than 60 degrees below zero.

"I feel like I'm in a David Lynch movie," said Nederland Mayor Bryan Brown, who
watched the bizarre proceedings.

Bauge, best known for founding Boulder's Polar Bear Club -- whose adherents leap
into 34-degree water in the Boulder Reservoir each New Year's Day -- called the
Boulder Daily Camera on Tuesday from Oslo to discuss his research.

"I look on ice swimming as training sessions for later cryonics suspension, to
see what my body can handle and what it can take," he said.

On Feb. 14, Bauge sat in a tub of ice-cold water for 64 minutes, breaking his
own record for ice-bathing.

Bauge insisted the bodies on his property were "widespread knowledge" and said
"if they try to remove the bodies, I am holding everyone up there legally
responsible."

"I will sue them until hell freezes over," he said.

But freezing wasn't the main concern for Nederland officials Tuesday. It was
defrosting they were worried about. Nobody was quite certain what, if any, laws
were being violated by Bauge's makeshift cryogenics lab, but Marshal Hugh Pitzer
said several times he did not think "it is a criminal matter."

"It does bother me a little bit," said Shirley Filer, who with her husband,
Jack, is building a house about 100 feet up the hill from Bauge's unusual
steel-and-concrete home. "What's going to come of this if they start
defrosting?"

The bodies looked in no danger of defrosting any time soon, with temperatures
hovering below the 60-below-zero mark in the dry-ice-packed container. Bauge's
mother said two of his friends had been repacking the container with 800 pounds
of dry ice every 14 days.

If the dry-ice packs are discontinued, "Al Campbell would dry up and (my)
grandfather would rot away," Bauge said. "That would be horrendous."

Bauge emphasized that the bodies are packed tightly within several layers of
insulation and are "no danger to the public at all."

What happens next? Neither the Boulder County Coroner's Office nor the Boulder
County Department of Health considered the matter urgent enough to respond
Tuesday. Nederland town officials made it clear that the bodies will not be on
ice in their town for long.

"Nobody is supposed to be up there, dead or alive," Pitzer said, referring to
the decision by the town to rule the peculiar house where Bauge had lived with
his mother "uninhabitable" until the town building inspector could have a look.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JAY QUADRACCI -- KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
Mayor Bryan Brown checks out the freezer.
940512 FR 1A PF 3; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 14, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HONOR STUDENT WON'T BE DEPORTED

BYLINE: JANET RAE-DUPREE, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 726 words


For the past four years, Servando Molina Garcia has teetered between worlds -
Stanford honor student and illegal immigrant fighting deportation to a country
he left 10 years ago.

On Friday, Molina, 22, learned he soon will have a green card as well as a
Stanford degree, after a federal immigration judge awarded him permanent
residency.

"I recognize that there's a limit to how many immigrants this country can hold .
. . but who knows how many people out there are in the same predicament I am?"
he said. "People just aren't really familiar with the human stories behind all
these (immigration) numbers."

Molina's situation certainly was a peculiar one. All five of his brothers and
sisters and his mother have gained legal residency over the last few years. But
Molina's age kept him in legal purgatory.

He was too young to fall under the amnesty program for illegal immigrants. But
he was too old to win residency under a federal law intended to prevent children
from being deported away from their legal-resident parents. So Molina was forced
to find some other way to stay in the country he calls home.

His deportation battle began the same week he learned he had been accepted at
Princeton, Yale and Stanford and that he would be co-valedictorian at his high
school in Reedley, in the San Joaquin Valley.

"Everything was going so right," he said. "Everyone was saying what a great
future I had, and then I get this letter saying, 'Hey, we want to throw you out
of the country."'

Molina was born in the village of Cutzian Grande in the Mexican state of
Michoacan. His father died when he was 3, and an aunt helped raised him after
his mother moved to Fresno to earn enough money to support her children.

In 1984, on the night of his 13th birthday, Molina slipped into the United
States through a hole in a fence near Tijuana. With him were an older sister and
a younger brother. They were guided by a man to whom his mother had paid $1,000.

A-plus in English

Molina spoke no English when his mother enrolled him in junior high school. He
learned quickly. The following year, he earned an A-plus grade in freshman high
school English. Despite working afternoons and weekends in the San Joaquin
Valley's fields and orchards picking fruit to help support his family, Molina
finished high school with a straight-A average.

Judging from the letters of support in his court file, his teachers adored him.

"A more conscientious, hard-working, naturally gifted student than Servando
would be difficult to find," said Reedley High English teacher Elizabeth
Hardcastle.

Molina's problems with the INS began when he applied for permanent residency in
1988. His application alerted the INS to his illegal status. Instead of giving
him a green card, the agency rejected his application and began deportation
proceedings two years later.

Molina feared that Stanford might withdraw its scholarship offer because of his
tenuous residency status. But the university continued to support him and Molina
lost only one of several state and federal education grants.

Plans to teach math

Next month, he will graduate with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering and
immediately begin work on a master's degree in environmental engineering. He
plans to work as an engineer for a few years to pay off student loans, he said,
and then return to Reedley to teach mathematics.

Attorney Kip Steinberg said he took on Molina's deportation battle free because
of what the student represents.

"Servando is such a remarkable role model for the Hispanic community and he's
shown that an investment in education can really pay off," Steinberg said. "His
case highlights a serious problem that children of legal (resident) parents face
. . . and shows that Congress needs to finish the job it started with amnesty in
1986."

INS attorney Stephen Briggs, who made few comments during Molina's deportation
hearing Friday in San Francisco, called the case "unusual and compelling."

After Judge Bette Stockton granted Molina's request for permanent residency, she
urged him to apply for citizenship when he becomes eligible in five years. "He
has made a significant contribution to this country and this court believes he
will continue to do so," she said.

Smiling after the hearing, she added: "Good things do happen on Friday the
13th."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Molina
4-year battle ends as stanford grad wins residency
940514 FR 1A 1; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 21, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REALITY CHECK: JUDGING CAMPAIGN ADS AN ANALYSIS OF CAMPAIGN COMMERCIALS.

BYLINE: Compiled by Mercury News Staff Writer Scott Thurm.

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 125 words


These charges are made in radio and television ads now being aired in the Bay
Area.

Pete Wilson

Candidate for governor

(box)What's the claim? "Kathleen Brown . . . says illegal immigration is not a
cause of problems in California."

(box)Is it true? The claim is factual but misleading. On the screen, the ad
accurately quotes Brown as saying that "illegal immigration is wrongly seen as a
cause." But Brown was referring to public concern about jobs, education and
health care. In the same speech, Brown said that illegal immigration causes
other problems, although she was vague. She suggested withholding foreign aid
from the home countries of illegal immigrants who commit additional crimes, to
recover the costs of imprisoning them.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 26, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REALITY CHECK: JUDGING CAMPAIGN ADS

BYLINE: Compiled by Mercury News staff writers Barry Witt, Scott, Thurm, Ken
McLaughlin and Jack Fischer.

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 531 words


An analysis of campaign commercials.

These charges are made in radio and television ads now being aired in the Bay
Area.

PETE WILSON

Republican candidate for governor

(box)What's the claim? "Kathleen Brown . . . says illegal immigration is not a
cause of problems in California."

(box)Is it true? The claim is factual but misleading. On the screen, the ad
accurately quotes Brown as saying that "illegal immigration is wrongly seen as a
cause." But Brown was referring to public fears regarding the impact of illegal
immigrants on jobs, education and health care. In the same speech, Brown said
illegal immigration does cause other problems, although she was vague. She
suggested withholding foreign aid from the home countries of illegal immigrants
who commit additional crimes, to recover the costs of imprisoning them.
KATHLEEN bROWN

Democratic candidate for governor

(box)What's the claim? In a television spot, Brown says, "With tough fiscal
management, I've kept California solvent through the worst economic crisis since
the Great Depression."

(box)Is it true? The claim is true but overstated. As state treasurer, Brown's
job is to manage California's money -- both by selling bonds authorized by
voters and investing idle reserve funds. Like her predecessors as treasurer, she
has ensured that the state kept enough cash on hand to meet ongoing expenses.
But the authority for balancing the state budget rests with the governor and the
Legislature, not the treasurer.
PHIL ANGELIDES

Democratic candidate for treasurer

(box)What's the claim? In a television commercial, Angelides says his opponent,
state Sen. David Roberti, "refuses to vote to protect (abortion) clinics" and
"attempts to cut off (abortion) funding." The ad also says the treasurer's
office "provides funding for health-care facilities."

(box)Is it true? Some of the claims are true. Roberti has voted to cut Medi-Cal
abortion funding. As treasurer, he would direct the California Health Facilities
Financing Authority. But as Senate president pro tem, Roberti has appointed two
members to that panel, both of whom are pro-choice. One claim is false: Although
he has abstained on advisory measures that urge Congress to make it a crime to
block access to abortion clinics, Roberti has voted for state legislation
increasing the penalties on those who block access to clinics.
ARMAND TIANO

Candidate for Santa Clara County sheriff

(box)What's the claim? In 60-second radio spots for Tiano, the announcer says
incumbent Sheriff Chuck Gillingham "stood by and watched 350 deputies eliminated
from his department." And no new deputies have been hired in eight years.

(box)Is it true? The claim is misleading. The sheriff's department has fewer
officers, but the reason dates back to before Gillingham became sheriff. In
1988, voters decided to take operation of the county jails away from the sheriff
and create the new county Department of Correction. About 400 deputies' jobs
were shifted to the new department. No new sheriff's deputies have been hired
because deputies assigned to the jails have been allowed to return to the
sheriff's department when there is an opening there.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 26, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

20TH DISTRICT CANDIDATES SQUARE OFF ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION, ECONOMY DEBATED

BYLINE: DENNIS AKIZUKI, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 764 words


Jump-starting the economy. Handling the sensitive and emotional topic of illegal
immigration. Grappling with the issues of affirmative action and quotas.

Candidates running in the 20th Assembly District focused Wednesday on those hot
political topics in a forum that attracted all six candidates for the first time
during the campaign.

With less than two weeks before the primary, the breakfast forum in Fremont
failed to generate any fireworks or mudslinging in the race to represent a
district that covers Fremont, Newark and Milpitas, the Berryessa area of San
Jose, and portions of Santa Clara and Pleasanton.

Instead, the candidates presented their priorities and responded to a wide range
of questions in a tightly controlled 60-minute event attended by members of the
sponsoring Fremont Chamber of Commerce and Centerville Business Association.

Running for the Democratic nomination are Milpitas Councilman Bob Livengood,
Union Sanitary District director Liz Figueroa of Fremont and businessman Doug
Gunn of San Jose.

The Republican primary race pits Scott Haggerty, a Fremont planning
commissioner, against Lowell King, a Newark conservative best known as an
anti-abortion leader. Winfred Cundiff, a third GOP candidate, withdrew from the
race and has endorsed Haggerty, although his name will still appear on the
ballot.

Libertarian Terry Savage, an electronics company quality control manager in San
Jose, is the other candidate.

All six agreed that illegal immigration is a serious problem for California, but
they varied in their strategies to address it.

Savage, King and Haggerty said they support Gov. Pete Wilson's effort to reduce
service for illegal immigrants.

"We have women who are pregnant in Mexico who about the time they are about to
give birth to the children, run across the border and, lo and behold. we have a
U.S. citizen," Haggerty said. While he agrees children born here to illegal
parents are Americans, Haggerty said they still should be sent back to Mexico
and not allowed to return until they are 18 years of age.

King draws the line at reducing education. He said the state should continue
providing education to children of illegal immigrants.

The Democrats favor other methods to combat illegal immigration.

Gunn suggested the state implement a computer system that employers can use to
ensure their employees are legal residents, while Livengood said the state
should deport illegal immigrants who are in prison.

"I support the plan the president has to strengthen our border between Mexico
and the United States with more border patrol, better fencing and more
barriers," Livengood said.

Figueroa said it's the federal government's role to deal with illegal
immigration, though she did not say what kind of measures she believes the
Clinton administration should implement. She criticized immigrant-bashing and
decried employers who are making money on the backs of illegal immigrants.

Helping the economy and creating more jobs was a recurring theme in all of their
remarks, with Livengood emphasizing his creation of a 1975 economic development
program in Milpitas that he said rapidly brought 12,000 jobs to the city. The
other five pointed to their experiences in private industry.

Asked what they would do to improve the business climate in the state, King and
Savage said they would reduce taxes and government regulation.

Haggerty proposed tax incentives for companies that provide day care, flexible
work hours and telecommuting; Figueroa called for less red tape in getting
permits; Livengood said an electronic clearinghouse could enable companies to
disseminate paperwork to numerous public agencies at the same time; and Gunn
called for the abolition of income tax for anyone under age 21.

Savage called affirmative action and hiring quotas "appalling" and an example of
reverse discrimination. Haggerty agreed, saying police departments have lowered
test-score standards to meet hiring goals.

While decrying quotas, King -- who noted his wife is Mexican-American -- said
the country must acknowledge racism exists and erase inequality.

Livengood said he supports his city's affirmative action program to make sure
the workforce reflects the diversity in the community, but he added that doesn't
mean Milpitas is hiring unqualified people.

Noting that hiring quotas are illegal, Figueroa said she supports affirmative
action goals.

Gunn said he practices affirmative action at the marble and granite store he
owns -- he employs a Mexican-American, a black and several women.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Election 1994

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map;
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
20th Assembly district
940526 LO 2B 2
PHOTO: no credit
Border Crossing
940526 LO 2B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 28, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEDERAL IMMIGRATION FIGURES QUESTIONED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 154 words


Both legal and illegal immigration are increasing more than government figures
show, and the foreign-born population is growing at nearly four times the rate
of native-born Americans, a private study contends.

The Center for Immigration Studies, which examines immigration issues and has
been critical of the high numbers of foreigners allowed into the United States,
said the 1993 total added more than 1.25 million to the population.

The study counted 972,000 new legal immigrants for the fiscal year, compared to
the 880,014 the Immigration and Naturalization Service reported. The center
counts refugees and asylum-seekers not included in the INS figures.

In addition, 300,000 foreigners illegally settle in the United States each year,
according to government estimates. The center said the actual number is probably
higher because of increased smuggling of Chinese and fraudulent asylum
applications.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 29, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HISPANICS AIM CAMPAIGN AT ANTI-IMMIGRATION ADVOCATES

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 554 words


Hispanic activists in San Jose and across California on Saturday launched a
major campaign to combat anti-immigrant sentiment, get more Hispanics registered
to vote and defeat a ballot measure intended to prevent illegal residents from
using schools or other public services.

About 70 Hispanics gave impassioned speeches and discussed strategies in the
gymnasium at San Jose's Peter Burnett Academy, which was adorned with
Spanish-language signs that declared, "Down with Pete Wilson" and "I also
contribute to this society -- I pay taxes."

Elsewhere, about 2,000 demonstrators carrying banners and chanting slogans
marched on Los Angeles City Hall on Saturday to support immigrant rights.
Similar events were held in Fresno, Sacramento, San Diego and Santa Maria, said
organizers with the California Latino Civil Rights Network. The group was formed
in February to counter what its literature terms "anti-immigrant hysteria and
intolerance."

Many who attended the San Jose session were especially bitter that a number of
politicians -- Republican and Democrat -- have made illegal immigration into
what they said was a divisive and racist campaign issue.

"We all better get angry," said Maria Fuentes of the Santa Clara County group,
United for Justice. "Immigration has touched all of us. It's a personal issue.
We must work very hard and be very organized."

Among other things, Hispanic activists want to raise $2 million to finance the
Network's pro-immigrant efforts, push to get more foreign-born Hispanics
naturalized and register 250,000 new Hispanic voters by this time next year.

Encouraged to vote

Noting that 3.7 million Hispanics in California are not naturalized or
registered to vote, Network organizer Mario Salgado urged the Hispanic community
in California to realize its full political potential.

"The sleeping giant has to wake up," he said. "We can really turn around
California politics."

Of special concern to many Hispanics at the meeting was the so-called Save-
Our-State initiative, which has been proposed for the November ballot. It would
attempt to cut the number of illegal immigrants using schools, hospitals and
other public agencies by requiring officials who run such programs to determine
the legal status of everyone they serve.

Law sides with immigrants

Opponents of the measure say it's unconstitutional and note that the Supreme
Court previously has ruled that all children, regardless of legal status, are
entitled to an education. They also argue that the measure would place an
extraordinary and costly burden on school and other public officials.

Moreover, Martha Jimenez, an attorney with the Mexican American Legal Defense &
Educational Fund, warned the San Jose group that many Hispanics, including
citizens and legal immigrants, would likely be more closely scrutinized because
of the way they look.

If the ballot measure passes, "We're going to have to prove that we have a right
to receive services that we receive today," she said. "I just want people to
understand the dangerous nature of this initiative."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To get in touch with the California Latino Civil Rights Network, contact Jorge
Gonzalez at (408) 295-0656, Carmelita Gutierrez at (408) 924-2518, or the
Hispanic Concilio of San Mateo County at (415) 589-2964.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 1994

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 1, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON SUES U.S OVER HEALTH CARE COSTS OF ILLEGALS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 132 words


Gov. Pete Wilson filed a lawsuit against the federal government Tuesday in Los
Angeles, seeking nearly $370 million to reimburse California for the cost of
health care for illegal immigrants. The federal suit was the second
election-year lawsuit filed over the issue of illegal immigration, following one
in April to recoup prison costs. A third suit dealing with education is planned
by Wilson. Wilson contends large numbers of illegal immigrants coming over a
porous border have contributed to a medical crisis and are partly responsible
for shutting down emergency rooms, forcing doctors to seek jobs out of state and
denying state services to legal residents. U.S. Justice Department spokesman
Carl Stern said the Clinton administration has not shut the door on the issue.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Wilson
940601 CA 3B 4.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 2, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL GETS COMPUTER SYSTEM

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: Washington


Attorney General Janet Reno unveiled computer systems for documents and
fingerprints today that she said could free Border Patrol agents to spend more
time catching illegal immigrants and help them identify repeat offenders.

"Border Patrol agents currently spend nearly half their valuable enforcement
time doing paperwork," Reno told her weekly news conference. She said the
document system could save enough time in San Diego, where it is being tested,
to equal the effect of adding 48 agents there.

The document system, known as ENFORCE, began a one-month test Wednesday at three
Border Patrol sites in San Diego. The system puts on computers 43 of 51 forms
that agents previously typed or filled out by hand in various immigration
activities.

"Right now, a criminal alien who is deported at San Diego can re-enter at
Brownsville, Texas, without the INS (Immigration and Naturalization Service)
knowing of this history," Reno said.

Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner said the current computer system at
airports and border crossings includes some INS, terrorism and Customs data. but
no information from INS stations on the southern border.

"We have never been able to get funding to get more than piecemeal data
systems," Meissner said. "The new system will be integrating all our data bases
and give us a case-tracking system." It could allow the service to determine for
the first time how many people enter the country each year, she said.

In an earlier test in McAllen, Texas, the document system reduced the time
required to process a Mexican illegal immigrant from 20 minutes to 3 or 4
minutes and the time for a non-Mexican illegal from 1 hour and 15 minutes to
just 15 minutes.

If the system passes the new test, it will be installed for six months in four
San Diego offices that handle investigations, employer sanctions, anti-
smuggling and criminal detention programs.

Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner said crime bills headed for compromise
negotiations in Congress contain $200 million for the document and fingerprint
systems and several other technologies in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. That
is the largest part of 2-3 years of spending required for full installation, she
said.

The Automated Fingerprinting Identification System takes an electronic
fingerprint and searches computerized fingerprint data bases for a match. If a
match is found, the computer can display law enforcement history, biographical
information and even a photograph in 3 or 5 minutes.

The INS, the nation's largest fingerprint user, now does paper checks with an
FBI system designed for identifying prints found at crime scenes within 24
hours. Meissner said the fingerprint system would be used on people apprehended
by immigration agents to prevent the release of those who have outstanding
warrants or previous records that agents cannot easily access now.

The fingerprint system has not yet been sent out for field testing.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Ron Collision, associate INS commissioner, demonstrates the Automated
Fingerprinting Identification System for Attorney General Janet Reno.
940602 FR 8A PF

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 3, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW COMPUTER SYSTEM SPEEDS BORDER PATROL

BYLINE: JAMES R. CARROLL, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: Washington


In a move to get more Border Patrol agents in the field to combat illegal
immigration, Attorney General Janet Reno unveiled a computer system Thursday
aimed at cutting paperwork and speeding investigations.

"Border Patrol agents have, up until now, been spending 40 percent of their
valuable enforcement time doing paperwork," Reno said at a Justice Department
news conference. "That is unacceptable."

The new computer system, called Enforce, is expected to save so much time at the
three Border Patrol sites in San Diego where it will be tested for a month that
it will free up the equivalent of 48 agents. The test operations began
Wednesday.

About 40 percent of the 1.2 million undocumented immigrants apprehended in 1993
were trying to cross the border in the San Diego region.

The Clinton administration initiative is also intended to address public
concerns in three politically important states -- California, Texas and Florida
-- that illegal immigration is out of control and straining local and state
budgets for police, social services and health care.

California and Florida have sued the federal government for hundreds of millions
of dollars in costs they have incurred because of the influx of undocumented
immigrants. Other states are considering similar suits.

The new computer is part of a continuing effort by the Clinton administration to
toughen border controls. Already under way is an expansion of the Border Patrol,
installation of additional lighting and fences along the Mexican border and the
deployment of more vehicles for the agents.

Catching people trying to enter the United States illegally seems almost easy
compared to dealing with the blizzard of paper that must follow each arrest.
Depending on each case, Border Patrol agents must choose from among 51 forms and
fill them out by hand or on manual typewriters.

The computer will handle 40 of those forms, and Reno said a department review
was expected eventually to reduce the number of forms.

In an earlier test in McAllen, Texas, the computer cut the time to process an
undocumented Mexican immigrant from 20 minutes to between three and four
minutes. A non-Mexican undocumented immigrant took 15 minutes, instead of about
one hour and 15 minutes.

Once a network is set up, the computers also will hook into government law
enforcement files to determine whether someone has a criminal record, is a
repeat border crosser or is wanted by the police.

Reno and Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner want to deploy the computer
network all along both U.S. borders. However, that will depend on Congress.
Anti-crime legislation soon to be taken up in a conference committee includes
$200 million for Enforce, a separate fingerprint identification system that is
still to be tested and other technological improvements.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: 'Border Patrol agents have, up until now, been spending 40 percent of
their valuable enforcement time doing paperwork. That is unacceptable. '
--Attorney General Janet Reno
940603 FR 11A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 7, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DON'T EXPECT BAILOUT TO FILL 'IMMIGRANT GAP'

BYLINE: LEON E. PANETTA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 851 words


THROUGH much of our history, immigration has been among this country's most
emotional political issues. We are a nation of immigrants. Yet too often we have
forgotten our heritage and used immigrants as scapegoats for our problems.

Once again, in a period of tight budget constraints, immigrants are in the
political cross hairs. There is a genuine need to curb illegal immigration and
to assist states with costs related to illegal immigration. However, in the rush
of political rhetoric, the public needs to distinguish between the exploitation
of these issues and responsible efforts to address them.

All agree on the need to combat illegal immigration. That is a central federal
responsibility, and this administration is overcoming years of inertia at the
federal level to strengthen enforcement along the border.

As to fiscal relief, however, we are hearing some very easy answers to very
complicated problems. They range from assertions that Washington should write a
blank check to cover traditional state and local services to all immigrants to
proposals that all benefits be cut off for legal and illegal immigrants alike.
The answer lies at neither extreme but in a strong partnership between the
federal and state governments.

Enforcement. President Clinton has directed the Immigration and Nationalization
Service to make a comprehensive effort to secure our borders and deter illegal
immigration. His budget, now before Congress, would add more than 1,000 agents
at the border and 200 inspectors at land ports of entry, provide agents with
better equipment, fund deportation of aliens who commit serious crimes after
they complete their sentences, increase enforcement of sanctions against those
who hire undocumented aliens and improve the asylum and naturalization
processes.

Assistance. Regardless of these efforts, millions of undocumented aliens are
here already. Previous administrations looked the other way when it came to the
states' costs of providing services to them, but the president believes that
these costs are a shared responsibility. His budget contains billions for states
relating to immigrants, around 30 percent more than in previous administrations;
included is $350 million to assist states for the first time ever with the costs
of imprisoning illegal immigrants who are convicted felons.

But the states cannot send the entire bill for health, prison and other costs to
Washington. These are, after all, not just federal responsibilities.

Before Congress will approve additional funds, it must have the facts, and
states have provided widely varying estimates of their costs. For example, the
governor of Texas estimates that undocumented immigrants cost her state $166
million annually, or an average of about $300 per immigrant. The governor of
California is asking for $2.3 billion. His estimate of undocumented immigrants
is 2.1 million, one-third greater than the INS estimate of 1.6 million. And
because he does not count taxes, lottery receipts and other revenues that the
state collects from undocumented immigrants, he wants $1,000 for each one, more
than three times what Texas is asking.

To separate facts from rhetoric, a working group of affected states and the
federal government has asked the respected, non-partisan Urban Institute to
provide an objective estimate of the costs and revenues associated with illegal
immigration. This will help determine what additional assistance might be
appropriate.

In addition, the administration is committed to working with the governors of
the states with the largest numbers of illegal immigrants to obtain support from
Congress. In a tight federal budget, a powerful case must be made that a
relatively few states are entitled to special help.

Nevertheless, some elected officials seem more interested in scoring political
points on this issue than in solving the problem. Lawsuits have been filed that
legal experts give virtually no chance of success, resulting in wasted legal
costs that the states can ill afford. Clearly, some politicians are laying the
groundwork for blaming Washington when the inevitable tough state budget choices
are made. For example, California has built its budget around a so-called
$3-billion immigration gap that is somehow, mysteriously, to be filled by
federal funds that simply do not exist.

Nobody should be under any illusions. In the zero-sum budget game, every dollar
spent on this problem must be taken from somewhere else. Therefore, we had
better work together instead of pointing fingers.

As our nation decides on a policy path, we should remember our immigrant
heritage. My parents came to this country looking for the opportunity to work
for a better life for themselves and their children. Most immigrants still come
to this country for the same reason.

No, we should not tolerate people immigrating illegally. But we need to treat
this issue honestly and fairly. If public officials at all levels can do that,
this problem can be solved in keeping with the great spirit and heritage of this
nation.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Leon E. Panetta is director of the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, and a
former congressman from Monterey.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: NANCY OHANIAN
940607 ED 7B 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 11, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

2 FIRMS FINED FOR BREAKING FOREIGN WORKER RULES

BYLINE: PETE CAREY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 365 words


Digital Equipment Corp. and a small Michigan computer consulting company have
been fined by the Department of Labor for breaking the rules covering the use of
temporary foreign workers.

The fines, the result of two unrelated investigations, are among the first in
the computer industry involving a temporary visa established under the
Immigration Act of 1990, which allows U.S. companies to hire foreign citizens to
work in the United States in "specialty occupations" for up to six years.

The jobs include computer programmers, engineers, teachers, physicians and
physical therapists -- fields in which workers are said to be in short supply.
Thousands of computer programmers from other countries are working in the United
States on temporary visas, and their presence has stirred controversy. While
such visas have long been used to recruit talented experts from overseas, some
American programmers charge that a few companies recruit foreign temporaries
with average skills simply because they are cheaper.

The law is supposed to protect American workers from replacement by less-
expensive foreign workers and requires employers to pay prevailing wages, advise
their American and resident alien workers of the openings and maintain public
files that describe the jobs and how the prevailing wage was determined.

Digital, a Boston computer manufacturer, underpaid 24 computer programmers and
will pay $26,360 in back wages and a $19,000 civil penalty, the Labor Department
announced. The company also agreed not to use the temporary worker visa for
three months.

A Digital official said the company tried to comply with the rules, but they
were ambiguous.

Complete Business Solutions Inc. of Farmington Hills, Mich., paid a $45,000 fine
for violating regulations affecting about 90 temporary workers. The firm agreed
not to use the visa for nearly five months, the Labor Department said, and will
increase the number of domestic workers in its training program.

The department dropped charges that CBSI had paid substandard wages to 48 of its
foreign workers.

"We're paying them market wages in our opinion," said Tim Manney, chief
financial officer.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 15, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROBE SET FOR RAID AGAINST VIETNAMESE HONG KONG POLICE STORMED REFUGEE CAMP

BYLINE: MICHAEL ZIELENZIGER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 688 words

DATELINE: Hong Kong


The police came before dawn, with nightsticks and tear gas. Their mission was to
move some Vietnamese boat people from their squalid detention camp to another
location.

But the raid injured more than 200 unarmed refugees, prompting Gov. Chris Patten
to order a special investigation Thursday into the use of force and giving Hong
Kong another black eye in its efforts to conclude one of the last tragic
chapters of the Vietnam War.

The raid -- and subsequent charges of official coverup -- reflect the fraying of
nerves as Hong Kong steps up its efforts to close Vietnamese detention camps in
the colony by next year, as agreed to by the United Nations, and send some
25,000 boat people back to Vietnam.

The colony already has begun forcing refugees to return to their country --
earning public-relations scars every time it forces boat people at gunpoint onto
airplanes for the ride home.

Hunger strikes

The refugees, who have staged an intense new round of hunger strikes and other
acts of civil disobedience over the past three months, want to immigrate to the
United States or other nations, which simply don't want to take them.

The raid occurred at the Whitehead Detention Center, where residents had been
objecting in recent days to being transferred to another camp for fear it was
the last stop before being sent back to Hanoi.

Patten ordered the inquiry after authorities finally admitted Wednesday that 213
refugees at the camp required medical attention, not the 34 they initially
reported. Officials also acknowledged firing 557 canisters of tear gas into the
compound to subdue the boat people, more than double the figure originally
announced.

Neighbors demand apology

A 6-year-old girl burned by tear gas and a 27-year-old woman who fell from the
roof of her barracks as hundreds tried to evade the police remained
hospitalized, officials said.

So intense was the raid that residents who live in the neighborhood surrounding
the compound demanded an apology from the colony's Correctional Services
Department.

Ken Woodhouse, Hong Kong's acting secretary for security, acknowledged his
office was "negligent" in its reporting of the incident, but defended his
department's conduct during the raid.

"We simply got the figures wrong," he said.

Jahanshah Assadi, the local representative of the U.N. High Commissioner for
Refugees, which operates the camp in conjunction with the Hong Kong government,
told reporters the assault was the logical outcome of recent events.

U.N. criticized

"This is what I was telling the Vietnamese might happen if they did not stop
their hunger strikes and dramatics -- they are compelling the government to take
dramatic action," he was quoted as saying. Assadi could not be reached Thursday
for additional comment.

But critics say the United Nations stood by silently while allowing a police
attack on unarmed civilians. Pam Baker, an advocate for refugees here, called
the attack "utterly disgraceful. An unprecedented attack like this is neither
desirable nor justifiable."

The refugees says they deserve political asylum and will be punished if they go
back to the communist nation they fled as much as a decade ago. But the office
of the U.N. High Commissioner on Refugees has reviewed individual cases and
determined the detainees left the country in search of better economic
opportunities. As "economic" migrants, they are not entitled to political asylum
under international rules.

Inducements

The United Nations has tried all manner of inducements, including financial
assistance, to get the Vietnamese to leave the camps, where families are
warehoused in tiny wooden cubicles, three levels high, built into long huts of
corrugated metal surrounded by barbed wire.

The United States' decision in February to lift the trade embargo with Vietnam
now makes it even more difficult for the detainees to win passage to the West.
With Vietnam's economic prospects improving as foreign aid and investments pour
into the nation, Western countries are less likely than before to offer asylum
to former boat people looking for a better life.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 31, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNORS URGE U.S. TO PAY MORE FOR IMMIGRANTS' SERVICES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 164 words


California Gov. Pete Wilson enlisted his colleagues Sunday in his crusade to
compel the federal government to pick up more of the costs for services provided
to illegal immigrants.

Committees of the National Governors' Association approved resolutions calling
on the federal government to assume the costs of providing illegal immigrants
with emergency medical care and education, as well as the tab for incarcerating
those convicted of felonies. The states now bear most or all of those costs.

Wilson and the governors of Florida, Texas, New York, and Illinois -- all among
the states with the largest populations of illegal immigrants -- are scheduled
to meet Monday with senior Clinton administration officials to press their case
for more aid.

"Bill Clinton did not create the problem; the president inherited the problem
like all the rest of us," Wilson said. "But we are asking that he exercise the
leadership that we think necessary to help move the Congress."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 18, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OFF IN A DITCH GOP'S MEXICAN BOUNDARY MOAT BORDERS ON CRAZY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 255 words


THE Republican answer to President Clinton's border enforcement plan looks like
the work of a medieval Big Brother.

GOP members of the House of Representatives would add ditches along fenced
stretches of the border with Mexico. They'd order tamperproof Social Security
cards for all American workers, citizens as well as legal immigrants. You have
to wonder what the GOP fears more, Mexican maids or civil liberties.

On a farm or orchard, a ditch is for irrigation. When a ditch is dug between two
countries, it's a moat, a sign that one wants to seal the border completely, but
is unlikely to succeed.

Taking a more practical approach, President Clinton's $540 million initiative
adds more fences and Border Patrol agents along strategic crossings, including
San Diego and El Paso, Texas.

For civil liberties reasons, the Social Security card has never been used as a
national identity card. But what else do you call a card and number that
virtually everyone would be required to have before being hired?

Pretty soon, everyone would be advised to carry it at all times. Government will
know more about who people are, what they are doing and where they are doing it.

Another part of the GOP House plan, charging $1.50 a head for every entry, would
merely discourage Mexican shoppers from spending money in U.S. border cities,
thereby hurting American businesses and prompting a Mexican retaliation.

Congressional Republicans probably could produce a worse plan, but it's
difficult to imagine how.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 4, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE SENATE OVERRIDES VETO ON IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 94 words


The Senate voted Thursday in Sacramento to override Gov. Pete Wilson's veto of a
politically charged illegal immigrant bill, but Republicans blocked an effort to
complete the override in the Assembly. It was the first time since 1984 that
either house of the Legislature had voted to overturn a veto. The Legislature
hasn't overridden a veto since 1979. The vetoed bill, by Sen. Art Torres, D-Los
Angeles, would have directed state officials to try to transfer about 16,000
illegal immigrants in California prisons to federal custody to reduce state
costs.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 14, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

KEY SUSPECT FOUND IN SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 77 words


A new suspect was arrested Wednesday in the Golden Venture immigrant- smuggling
case, and New York City law enforcement officials described him as the
highest-ranking suspect taken into custody so far.

Prosectors said the suspect, Weng Yuhui, 40, was in charge of communications in
the weeks before the freighter, carrying nearly 300 illegal immigrants from
China, was beached off the Rockaway Peninsula last June. Ten passengers died
trying to swim ashore.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 21, 1994 Friday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

IN THE FIELDS, DRESS IS MORE

BYLINE: LAURA J. TUCHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: PENINSULA LIVING; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 303 words


AT FIRST glance, some of Herlinda Cancino's black-and-white photographs of women
migrant workers look like portraits of bandits -- only dark eyes show out from
the panuelos, the kerchiefs that hide their faces from the eyes down.

Yet Cancino's photographs, on view beginning Monday at Stanford University's
Institute for Research on Women and Gender, actually document the ritual dress
worn by women who work the fields of California's agricultural valleys.

Looking good

Besides their panuelos, which aid against the pesticides, sun, dust and wind of
the fields, the women don eye-enhancing facial make-up and color- coordinated
garments. This is certainly not the stuff of bandits; it's the women's way of
bringing cultural, aesthetic and feminine concerns into an otherwise harsh and
mundane life.

Twenty-seven photographs, taken in natural light in the fields or the workers'
quarters with a 35mm camera, are on view in "Una Mirada al Campo: Images by
Herlinda Cancino." Some show the women at work in the fields, others show them
dressing to go to work.

Project on rural peoples

The photos were taken over a two-year period, while Cancino was working on a
larger research project involving California's rural peoples. Some of them
appeared in the book "Northward Bound, the Mexican Immigrant Experience in
Ballad and Song" by Maria Herrera-Sobek.

Cancino, an expert in linguistic and cultural diversity, is an associate
professor in San Francisco State University's School of Education.
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

"Una Mirada al Campo: Images by Herlinda Cancino," Monday through March 22 at
the Institute for Research on Women and Gender in Serra House (off Campus Drive
East, next to the Haas Public Service Center) at Stanford University. The
institute is open Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO:
"Mexican Eyes" by Herlinda Cancion, at Stanford's Serra House.
940121 PL 16 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    February 8, 1994 Tuesday STREET EDITION

CALIFORNIA, HERE WE COME . . . AND THERE WE LEAVE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 218 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


California's population last year grew at the slowest rate in more than two
decades despite a record number of foreign immigrants moving to the Golden
State, according to a report released today.

California had 67,000 new residents -- the difference between those who moved
out of state and new immigrants -- which was the smallest since the 1940s, the
state Department of Finance reported.

The state's population last year reached 31.74 million, a 1.4 percent increase,
or a total of 442,000. It was the smallest numerical increase in five years.
Besides the 67,000 new residents, the department attributed the addition of
375,000 residents to natural growth of the population.

The department said 319,000 foreign immigrants came to California, a 5 percent
increase from the prior year, but 252,000 Californians left the state.

Northern California grew at a faster rate, 1.8 percent, than the south, 1.2
percent. The Gold Country counties were the fastest growing regions, 2.7
percent; the fastest-growing county was San Benito, with a 4.9 percent increase.

In the Bay Area, Sonoma County showed the highest growth rate, 1.93 percent, as
the population reached 417,700. Santa Clara became the state's fourth-most
populous county, with 1,575,700 residents, 100 more than San Bernardino.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  February 8, 1994 Tuesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

STATE POPULATION GROWTH IS LOWEST IN 20 YEARS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


California's population last year grew at the slowest rate in more than two
decades despite a record number of foreign immigrants moving to the Golden
State, according to a report released today.

California had 67,000 new residents -- the difference between those who moved
out of state and new immigrants -- which was the smallest since the 1940s, the
state Department of Finance reported.

The state's population last year reached 31.74 million, a 1.4 percent increase,
or a total of 442,000. It was the smallest numerical increase in five years.
Besides the 67,000 new residents, the department attributed the addition of
375,000 residents to natural growth of the population.

The department said 319,000 foreign immigrants came to California, a 5 percent
increase from the prior year, but 252,000 Californians left the state.

Northern California grew at a faster rate, 1.8 percent, than the south, 1.2
percent. The north also gained more residents, 234,000, compared with 208,000 in
the south.

The Gold Country counties were the fastest growing regions, 2.7 percent. But the
fastest growing county was San Benito, with a 4.9 percent increase, as its
population swelled to 41,000.

In the San Francisco Bay area, Sonoma County showed the highest growth rate,
1.93 percent, as the population reached 417,700.

Santa Clara became the state's fourth-most populous county, with 1,575,700
residents, 100 more than San Bernardino.

San Francisco added 9,800 residents to reach 739,600. Most of the gain was from
immigration as births outnumbered deaths by only 1,129.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY PAGE 12A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 13, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NATURALIZED MEXICANS FARE BETTER, CENSUS SAYS

BYLINE: MARILYN LEWIS, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 522 words


Mexican immigrants who become naturalized U.S. citizens do better,
scholastically and financially, than their fellow immigrants who do not pursue
citizenship, according to figures released today by the U.S. Census Bureau.

The naturalization study was one of three census reports out today that
illustrate, their authors said, the inaccuracies of broad generalizations about
Hispanic or Asian immigrants.

Mexican-Americans who arrived before 1980 and became naturalized citizens are
the wealthiest among that group. It was unclear if the people who did well did
so because they became citizens or if citizenship gave them some extra benefit,
according to Jorge del Pinal, chief of the bureau's Hispanic statistics section.

The widely held generalization that family income is extraordinarily high among
people of Asian or Pacific Island background - $41,251, compared with $35,108
for the average American family - failed to hold up. That statistic fails to
take into account that, on average, Asian-Pacific Islander families are larger,
with more workers whose incomes contribute to the total, said Stan Rolark, a
statistician with the Census' Racial and Statistics Branch.

"There is a great diversity within the API (Asian-Pacific Islander) population.
Not everyone has that relatively high income," Rolark said. For example,
populations with roots in Japan, China, India and the Philippines are
better-established in the United States and have high average family incomes.
Poverty among groups with an Asian background ranges from 3.4 percent of
Japanese-Americans with incomes below the federal standard for poverty to 61.8
percent of Hmong.

For the first time, based on results from the 1990 census, the bureau has
compiled a count of the numerous Hispanic nationalities, del Pinal said. There
is also diversity among the many groups known as Hispanic, although the
differences are less striking, said del Pinal.

The results show that Cuban-Americans are no longer the best-educated and
well-off American Hispanic group. Uruguayans, Chileans, Argentines and
Paraguayans have taken their place. These, however, are small populations of
people who must be well-to-do in the first place to travel such distances, del
Pinal said.

A third report, on the ancestry of 74 nationalities in the United States,
contained no startling new conclusions, researchers said. Among the findings:
Slovenes (from the former Yugoslavia) have the highest median age - 47 - of any
group and the lowest proportion of its members - 55 percent - in the civilian
workforce, compared with the nationwide median age of 33 and 65 percent
nationally in the workforce.
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To obtain the reports, visit libraries at San Jose State, Santa Clara or
Stanford universities or call the U.S. Government Printing Office at (202)
783-3238 and ask for: Ancestry of the Population in the United States: 1990,
(CP-3-2), #003-024-08698-1, $41; Persons of Hispanic Origin in the United States
(C-3-3) #003-024-08705-7, $23; or Asians and Pacific Islanders in the United
States: 1990 (C-3-5) #003-024-08699-9, $21.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charts (2);
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
DISPARITY AMONG ASIANS
The following chart shows that high family incomes among Asian nationalities in
the United States are achieved by having many workers in the same household.
Family Per capita
Nationality income income
All Americans, average $35,108 $14,444
Asian-Pacific Islander 41,251 13,638
Japanese 51,550 19,373
Asian Indian 49,309 17,777
Filipino 46,698 13,616
Chinese 41,316 14,877
Vietnamese 30,550 9,033
Laotian 23,101 5,597
Cambodian 18,126 5,121
Hmong 14,327 2,692
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
BENEFITS OF NATURALIZATION
Naturalization and length of residence in the United States go along with
reduced poverty among Mexican-Americans.
Poverty rate
All Mexican-Americans 26.3%
U.S. native Mexican-Americans 24.5%
Foreign-born Mexican immigrants 29.8%
Those who entered the United States 1980-'90 36.3%
Those who arrived before 1980 23.2%
All U.S. residents 13.1%
All U.S. natives 12.7%
Naturalized Mexican immigrants who arrived before 1980 22.3%
Source: U.S. Census Bureau

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 25, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLITICAL-ASYLUM SEEKERS MAY FACE TOUGHER RULES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 146 words


The Clinton administration is expected to soon unveil new regulations and
legislative proposals that would make it tougher to apply for political asylum
in the United States, congressional sources and immigration advocates say.

The initiatives, expected since President Clinton proposed legislation to
eliminate immigration abuses last July, have been delayed by indecision within
the administration about how to get what it wants without opening a huge debate
in Congress that could result in harsh anti-immigrant legislation, congressional
sources say.

The administration has been under pressure to act quickly because, after the
World Trade Center blast Feb. 26 and last summer's beaching of the Golden
Venture smugglers ship off New York City, there has been a flood of stories
about how easy it is to enter and stay in the United States through political
asylum.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 3, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GIVING JESSE A HAND JACKSON EXHORTS BILINGUAL TEACHERS IN S.J.

BYLINE: MAYA SURYARAMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 454 words


The Rev. Jesse Jackson came to San Jose on Wednesday to address a statewide
gathering of bilingual teachers jittery about the state's anti-immigrant
climate, and he did not disappoint them.

Sounding like the preacher he is, Jackson delivered a ringing speech that
denounced those who would seal California's borders.

"The same kind of anti-immigrant hysteria that drew Japanese-Americans into
camps must not be revisited in California," Jackson declared before an audience
of more than 1,000 at the California Association of Bilingual Education
convention.

Here and there in the audience, cries of "Tell it, Jesse" rang out.

In his evening speech at the San Jose McEnery Convention Center, Jackson used
many of the progressive themes that have been staples of his political agenda.
He said there should be more money for education and job training -- and less
for defense and prisons.

"We can't go forward arguing for private schools and public jails," Jackson
said.

He also called for more multicultural education in the schools, and for schools
whose graduates could speak a language in addition to English.

"The new trade treaty (the North American Free Trade Agreement) obligates us to
speak the language of our neighbors and our customers," Jackson said. "You can't
make a strong case for hemispheric trade and language chauvinism."

His message fell on grateful ears at the convention. Bilingual education -- in
which immigrant children are taught academic subjects in their native language
while they learn English -- has long been controversial in California. But in
the current political climate, with even some liberal legislators calling for
National Guard troops on the border to control illegal entry into the country,
the embattled bilingual community was happy to find an advocate.

"It's really wonderful to have people in positions of power saying 'stop the
immigrant bashing,' " said Kathy Cox, a bilingual teacher from Mendocino County.

Winnie Porter, who teaches in San Francisco, said she hoped Jackson's speech
would build bridges between bilingual educators and the black community. She
said some black people view bilingual education as competing for resources that
could go to their children.

"To have someone like Jesse speak -- it will send a message out to
African-Americans that we all have to pull together," Porter said.

More than 6,000 teachers, principals, aides and others have come to San Jose for
the annual convention, which will continue through Saturday.

President Clinton, who endorsed bilingual education during his election
campaign, had been scheduled to speak to the convention via satellite Wednesday
but had to cancel because of his voice problems.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LEN LAHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
One of more than 1,000 educators welcomes the Rev. Jesse Jackson to San Jose
McEnery Convention Center on Wednesday night.
940203 LO 1B
PHOTO: LEN LAHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Jesse Jackson acknowledges his warm reception from bilingual teachers group.
940203 LO 2B P

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 5, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AS EMBARGO ENDS, PAIN, PROMISE RISE

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1448 words


FOR the 800,000 immigrants from a country that many of their neighbors know only
as a battlefield, this week's demise of the U.S. trade embargo against Vietnam
creates an emotional tangle of pain and promise that their fellow Americans can
only try to comprehend.

Perhaps nobody understood it more than a San Jose businessman who left San
Francisco International Airport on Friday morning with his mother for their
first trip back to their homeland since a 1975 North Vietnamese invasion
triggered one of the largest diasporas in history.

He left Saigon on a U.S. destroyer when he was 9 years old and Vietnamese. He'll
return to Ho Chi Minh City on a South Korean jetliner as a 27-year-old American
whose memories of war-ravaged Saigon are as rusty as the wreckage of B-52s in
Vietnam's war museums.

"My vision of Vietnam is fragmented, the memories of a naive and innocent
child," he said before leaving to join an estimated 50,000 other Vietnamese
emigres from around the country for an incredible convergence of global politics
and ancient moons.

Not only will Vietnamese citizens be celebrating the Return of the Americans,
they'll also be celebrating Tet, the lunar new year.

"I couldn't ask for a better time to go," he said.

(hbox)

For many anti-communist activists, the embargo, like the South Vietnamese anthem
that emigres still sing at almost every large Vietnamese-American gathering, had
become a symbol that kept the red-and-gold flag of the Republic of Vietnam
alive. For them, the embargo was also a powerful reminder that Vietnam still
lacks human rights.

To other Vietnamese emigres, many of whom kept quiet for fear of being
ostracized, the embargo was a symbol of a war-torn past, of stubbornness and
hate.

Within the emigre community was a quiet battle of ideology vs. pragmatism. A
battle of generations, of sexes. Often, young Vietnamese professionals tried to
persuade their parents to talk less about the war and communists and more about
reconciliation and renewal.

Wrestling with demons

The embargo's end forced many Vietnamese-Americans to define their feelings for
the homeland they loved and a government they despised. It meant wrestling with
the demons of communism and the ghosts of thousands of boat people who fled
tyranny only to die in South China Sea.

To others, who only a decade ago never thought they would see their country
again, the end of the embargo evoked hope -- often bordering on giddiness.

"I've heard a lot of Vietnamese people talking today about finally going back
home, maybe opening a business in Saigon," Dang Son, the 40-year-old San Jose
author of books about the Vietnamese struggle against communism, said Friday.
(hbox)

The San Jose businessman returning to his homeland remembers a magical country
that combined the best of Asia and the best of Europe, a Confucian and Buddhist
nation flavored with French cuisine and architecture. A wonderland of dramatic
rock formations, resplendent rice fields and gorgeous coastlines.

"It's a dream, but the image is mixed up with poverty and the horrors of war,"
he said. "I don't know what I'll find. But I know that the first thing I want to
do is take off my socks and shoes and walk on the soil."

He couldn't be more thrilled about Tet, a time when the normally reserved
Vietnamese, often absorbed by sorrow, let down their guard.

"I see firecrackers and dragon dances and everyone having a good time," he said.
"But I also expect a lot of crying, a lot of tears as I see relatives I haven't
seen since I was 3 feet tall."

Returning discreetly

Like most other Vietnamese emigres, he will return to Vietnam discreetly. Out of
respect for his father, a former high-ranking officer in the South Vietnamese
military who refuses to make the trip back, the businessman asked that his name
not be used.

"The men, all they have is a bunch of bad memories from the war," he said. "The
women are different. My mother wants to see her friends and relatives. My father
still wants to hold onto the war. Men, especially in Asia, are conditioned to be
a lot more proud. It's easier for my mother to go back. All she cares about is
Vietnam's food and smell, about her old friends and family members. My father's
memories are out in the battle zone. He missed the beauty of Vietnam. Sure, my
mother had the pain, but her focus was the family.

"I still remember the time a bomb fell on my house and I ran down the hall
scared to death and half-asleep. By mostly I remember cricket fights. Picking
fruits. The gambling at Tet. My father was always out in the battlefield. He
never came home.

"My memories are mostly of home, so they're closer to that of my mother than my
father. I'm an American with visions of optimism and light. Vietnam has enough
sadness."

(hbox)

"Most people in the Vietnamese community had no illusion as to what would happen
to the embargo," said Son, the author.

Most had been in the United States long enough to realize that the U.S.
government would act in its own interest, that geopolitics and business
interests would supersede noble motives.

More idealistic

But, Son said, the latest wave of emigres tended to be more idealistic, more
innocent when it came to the debate over the embargo.

They are the emigres who survived the Vietnamese gulag, the network of communist
forced-labor camps where hundreds of thousands of former South Vietnamese
officers and others tied to the Saigon regime were sent for "re- education"
after the war. Tens of thousands died from starvation and torture. Beginning in
1990, the re-education camp survivors and their families began arriving by the
hundreds in the United States each month under a humanitarian program. In
Vietnam, many heard magnificent tales about a generous U.S. government rewarding
them with houses and new cars for their years of military service and
imprisonment.

Instead, many landed in the Promised Land in the middle of a recession -- and
ended up unemployed or on welfare. Many are bitter. Some are further depressed
by this week's events.

"The propaganda machine in Vietnam will announce that Vietnam has won another
war over the United States," said Pham Van Hao, a former South Vietnamese air
force captain who spent three years in the camps.

But thousands of emigres, mostly people in their 20s and 30s, argue that the
best way to change Vietnam is to flood it with Western ideas and cash -- to foil
the dictators at their own game. And many see nothing wrong with making a little
money of their own.

Shadow business partners

In the past couple of years, thousands have traveled to Ho Chi Minh City, a
place everyone still calls Saigon, to become shadow business partners with old
friends and relatives. Although most of the businesses -- restaurants, hotels
and garment factories -- were illegal under the embargo, what they often feared
most was the wrath of the anti-communists back in California.

"But as long as you did it quietly, you were OK," said Tam Nguyen, a 37-
year-old San Jose attorney who visits Vietnam regularly. And the end of the
embargo will only accelerate the trend.

"I've met hundreds, if not thousands (of emigres) there," Nguyen said. "Most of
them are visiting. But half are trying to find a way to do business. So many of
them are gathered in Saigon that they're thinking of forming the San Jose
Vietnamese Club, where we can talk about California and American life."

One San Jose professional who visits Vietnam frequently regrets having missed a
chance to buy a $50,000 house near Tan Son Nhut airport three years ago. "My
wife thought it was a communist trick," he said. "Now it's worth $250,000."

Americans favored

If he were a American contractor, he said, he would build villas in Saigon where
Vietnamese-Americans could go to retire.

"The most amazing thing is that the Americans are the most favorite people of
the Vietnamese," he said. "They don't want the French. They don't want the
Russians. They certainly don't want the Japanese or Chinese."

(hbox)

"I understand there is bitterness from the past," the San Jose businessman said
a day before his flight to Ho Chi Minh City. "But communism? What are we talking
about? It's dead.

"Vietnam has been fighting for its freedom for thousands and thousands of years.
The 15 years of the Vietnam War were just a drop in the bucket.

"I'm sorry my father is not able to go back home. But it won't stop me. As the
eldest son, I will go in his place.

"Our community's medicine is to move forward. It'll be our poison if we don't
let go of the war. I feel confident that one of my father's last wishes will be
to be buried in Vietnam."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE OPENING OF VIETNAM
Mercury News Staff Writer De Tran contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
In Ho Chi Minh City, a young boy carries home holiday flowers for Tet, the lunar
new year celebration.
940205 FR 1A 1; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 9, 1994 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

HAITIANS: WHY THEM AND NOT US? REFUGEES: CUBANS HELPED ASHORE

BYLINE: DAVID BEARD, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 587 words

DATELINE: San Juan, Puerto Rico


It is becoming commonplace. Two groups of boat people seeking refuge on U.S.
shores. The Cubans are whisked into America. The Haitians are imprisoned before
being forced to return.

The differences have rarely been as stark as on Tuesday.

The bodies of four Haitian boat people, two of them children, washed up on
Florida shores as authorities took 60 survivors into custody. At the same time,
in the U.S. commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American boats and helicopters helped a
group of Cubans complete their illegal journey to the United States, where they
would be allowed to remain.

"It's hard to understand," acknowledges Mike Wimberly, agent-in-charge of the
U.S. Border Patrol office on Puerto Rico's west coast. Still, he must follow a
U.S. policy that refugee advocates and even immigration officials say is
discriminatory.

The U.S. Congress ordered the preferential treatment for Cubans at the height of
the Cold War. Because of the powerful Cuban-American lobby, Congress is under
little pressure to change it now.

"It goes without saying that U.S. immigration policy has a double standard --
one for Cubans, and another for Haitians and other nationalities," said Rep.
Carrie Meek, D-Fla., a Haitian refugee advocate. "This drowning is just another
terrible indication of the unfairness."

On Nov. 15, a boat bringing in both Haitian and Cuban refugees was intercepted
off Florida. The Haitians were put in custody. The Cubans were quickly released
to relatives, guaranteed residency status under the congressional act.

The special Cuban treatment prompts refugee advocates to ask questions:

* Is Communist Cuba a more dangerous place than troubled Haiti?

* Are economic conditions worse in Cuba than in Haiti?

* Why is a Cuban more deserving of U.S. residency than a Haitian?

"The answer unfortunately, is that there appears to be a built-in prejudice
against Haiti and Haitians," said Jocelyn McCalla, director of the National
Coalition of Haitian Refugees. "Discrimination plays a special role in this."
Under a May 1992 White House order, Haitians intercepted at sea are returned to
their military-dominated homeland without a hearing to determine whether they
are fleeing political persecution -- and so more likely to be granted asylum --
or economic devastation.

Presidents Bush and Clinton argued that without such a policy, huge numbers of
the 6.5 million Haitians would head toward the United States on unsafe vessels,
leading to more deaths on the high seas.

"Haitians, unfortunately, have nowhere to hide, because they are being forcibly
returned by the United States," he said.

The Interamerican Commission for Human Rights is meeting Thursday in Washington
to determine if the U.S. direct-return order violates international human rights
conventions.

Meek introduced legislation last year to offer hearings to all Haitian refugees
and to allow the boat people to apply for temporary residency status. But she
has been unable to even get the measure heard in the House Judiciary Committee
and blames anti-immigrant sentiment.

"There is really no sympathy in Congress for Haitian refugees," Meek said
bitterly from Washington.

The 56 Cubans entering Puerto Rico were accompanied by 20 Dominicans who also
landed on the remote U.S. island of Mona in a separate craft Tuesday.

Unlike the Cubans, who were released Tuesday on their own recognizance,
arrangements were made for a charter flight to take the Dominicans home today,
said Wimberly of the Border Patrol.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Florida officers cover the body of a Haitian boy who drowned trying to reach
shore.
940209 FR 14A PF

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 11, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION'S CULTURAL EFFECT FEARED BEHIND THE NEWS: ONCE DEEMED POLITICALLY
INCORRECT, THE ISSUE IS IN THE OPEN.

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1302 words


With a slew of immigration-reform bills before Congress this year, bitter
squabbling is expected over recent claims about the economic impact of the
foreign-born. But some proponents of tougher laws are sounding a far more
provocative alarm about the impact on the country's culture.

The huge numbers of recent Asian and Hispanic arrivals have such different
backgrounds than most Americans, these critics claim, that the country's ability
to assimilate them is being overwhelmed. And they warn that unless that changes,
the nation's social, ideological and linguistic underpinnings could be in danger
of collapse.

"At the root of the growing concern about immigration," declared Ira Mehlman of
the influential Federation of American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, in a recent
National Review, "is the public's sense that their country is being dramatically
transformed without their consent."

Immigrant advocates tend to regard that sort of talk as rash and xenophobic.
Similar criticisms have been leveled at the foreign-born throughout history,
they note, though the nation has managed quite nicely to keep from falling
apart. But many of them also believe such concerns are widely shared.

"I think there certainly is an escalating controversy, discussion, debate over
the question of how do we define America and who are Americans," said Ronald
Takaki, an ethnic studies professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
"A lot of people are perplexed: 'What does it mean for us when whites (in places
like California) become a minority?' "

For the most part, immigrant advocates say, social pressures have made it much
easier to criticize newcomers because of their impact on jobs and public
services than because of their ethnic customs. But that may be changing.

Pointing to recent polls that show growing anxiety about legal as well as
illegal immigrants, those raising the culture controversy say the climate has
never been better to bring up the issue.

"I think it's definitely gotten easier to talk about," said David Simcox, of the
Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies, which also favors tougher
immigration laws. "The concern has increased so much, particularly in a state
like California, things you weren't able to say seven or eight years ago you can
say now."

Most of the cultural worries about immigrants are being expressed in far- right
and sometimes obscure publications. But they are turning up elsewhere, too.

In a nationally syndicated column last summer, Washington Post writer George
Will argued that "immigration is discussed first, and too much, as an economic
issue."

'Rapid change' perceived

Calling the cultural issue "more important and interesting," he added, "the high
rate of immigration since 1960, combined with the high fertility rate of
immigrants relative to that of native-born Americans, is producing rapid change
in the nation's ethnic and cultural balance."

And conservatives are not the only ones fretting over that change. Among others
are such well-known liberals as former Sen. Eugene McCarthy and Arthur M.
Schlesinger Jr.

In his recent book, "The Disuniting of America," Schlesinger warned that mass
migration makes "the mixing of peoples a major problem for the century that lies
darkly ahead."

Many such critics contend recent newcomers not only are much different
ethnically than the mostly European immigrants of the past, but that in many
cases they are also more determined to preserve their native languages and
cultures here.

As a result, the critics say, the United States is being increasingly fragmented
by legions of special-interest immigrant groups, each demanding rights and
privileges in the name of "multiculturalism." And as evidence of that, they cite
everything from the proliferation of bilingual-education and ethnic-studies
classes to corporate diversity-awareness campaigns and history books crammed
with politically correct ethnic references.

Others, however, find the misgivings worrisome and wrongheaded.

"There's a paranoia here" said Daz Lamparas, a Filipino-born representative of
the Service Employees International Union in San Francisco, who has lived in
this country seven years.

In recent weeks, Lamparas has had to battle several local employers over
on-the-job rules that ban workers from speaking in foreign dialects -- even in
private conversations. And three months ago, he said, a fellow he had never met
"yelled at me and said, 'Hey, go back to China.' "

"I'm really tired," he said, "of all this immigrant bashing."

'A real cheap shot'

So is Bill Ong Hing, a Stanford law professor and immigration scholar. "To point
to immigrants and this label of multiculturalism as a reason for excluding
people is a real cheap shot," Hing said. Besides, he added, it is a mistake to
assume the country ever had a fixed culture, because "we are always changing as
a people."

Berkeley professor Takaki, the author of two books on immigrants, agreed.

"There's a kind of nostalgia that's pervasive: 'Gee, in the old days we had the
melting pot,' " he said. "But the melting pot never included African-Americans,
never included Mexican-Americans, never included Asian- Americans."

Many people, however, do not want the country redefined. Among them is John
Tanton, who founded FAIR, the most prominent voice in the immigration
restriction movement, and who helped found U.S. English, a national group
opposed to bilingualism.

Tanton has long been at the forefront of those voicing cultural concerns about
immigrants. And five years ago, he wrote a controversial memo for another of his
groups concerned about immigration matters that was widely denounced as bigoted
after it was leaked to the media.

The memo commented on the birth rates of some ethnic groups in a way many people
found tasteless. And it asked, "As whites see their power and control over their
lives declining, will they simply go quietly into the night? Or will there be an
explosion?"

Outraged, broadcaster Walter Cronkite and Linda Chavez, the former executive
director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights under President Reagan, both
quit U.S. English. Tanton resigned shortly after them.

'Ahead of my time'

But to this day, Tanton denies his memo was racist, saying only that "I was five
years ahead of my time." And he has not backed off his ideas a bit.

Among his more recent endeavors, Tanton now publishes The Social Contract, a
journal on migration and culture, whose summer issue was devoted to "What makes
a nation?" and "How much diversity can it tolerate?"

One article warned, "immigration is potentially much more of a threat to public
order than we realize." Another declared, "the nation's racial-ethnic
composition is being transformed overnight, against the will of the majority."
With the exception of Patrick Buchanan during his presidential bid two years
ago, most of them have steered well clear of the topic.

Even California Gov. Pete Wilson, whose recent public comments have helped stoke
a nationwide furor over immigration, has pointedly limited his criticisms to
people who come here illegally.

Moreover, Wilson's literature stresses that California welcomes legal immigrants
"with open arms, valuing the diversity immigrants bring to our work force,
education system and culture."

Comments like those -- especially from conservatives -- irk many immigration
critics.

"Republicans seem to be frozen by fear of political incorrectness on this
issue," said FAIR's Mehlman in his recent National Review article.

Nevertheless, the issue may be heating up, if the growth of the California
Coalition for Immigration Reform is any indication.

Since its formation last year, said co-founder Barbara Coe, the coalition claims
to have built a mailing list of 12,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Will
940211 FR 10A 1
PHOTO:
McCarthy
940211 FR 10A 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 23, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY RATES U.S., MIGRANT STUDENTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Immigrant children do better in school than their American classmates, but their
performance declines as they become more Americanized, a new study says. The
study, the largest of its kind, is key to helping immigrant children advance as
the nation loses the manufacturing jobs where their parents traditionally have
found work, Ruben Rumbaut, a sociology professor at Michigan State University,
said Tuesday.

"The longer you are in the United States, the more you learn, among other
things, the bad habits, such as wearing headphones while studying or waiting to
the last minute to study for a test," Rumbaut said at the annual meeting of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science.

Many studies have shown that children of immigrants do better in school than
American children. This study shows that as immigrant children become
Americanized they move in the direction of their American counterparts.

Rumbaut's study showed that foreign-born children who have lived in the United
States for five to 10 years had a grade point average of 2.6, higher than that
of U.S.-born children of immigrants.

The figures are based on analysis of school records of 5,000 children in San
Diego and Miami.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 5, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

S.J. BAND'S RHYTHMS TRANSCEND BORDERS;
FOR THESE MUSICIANS, SONGS ARE THE MEANS TO SPEAK
TO THE FEARS AND HOPES OF A GENERATION OF
IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1388 words


A saxophone wails, an accordion bellows and a guitar-like bajo sexto twangs.
Then the vocals begin.

Amid the purring about pretty young girls in love, there is a rage about
boundaries that divide and conquer. And there are cries about the struggle to
leave a homeland only to find a broken dream.

In much the same way that rock 'n' roll bands spoke to the '60s generation, Los
Tigres del Norte -- the Grammy-caliber Mexican-American band based in San Jose
-- have tapped into the consciousness of a multitude of immigrants who left
behind their native Mexico, Central America and South America for an uncertain
future in the Golden State.

For more than a quarter of a century, the four Hernandez brothers and their
cousin Oscar Lara have honed a special brand of politically and socially frank
Norteno music that has served to entertain and educate, to redeem and reaffirm
-- and to give voice to those who often have none.

"Our job is the same," band member Raul Hernandez explained to a reporter. "What
you do in newspapers, we do in songs."

They are the Tigers of the North, the Beatles of Mexico. Los Tigres have sold
millions of albums and starred in 10 films. They drew almost 11,000 fans to the
San Jose McEnery Convention Center on New Year's Day. They routinely fill
stadiums in Mexico.

Like country and western, the music of Los Tigres is filled with vivid stories,
reflecting their own lives and those of their fans.

Their compositions defend immigrants and criticize what they see as the
artificial political borders that divide people. They tackle persecution by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, abuse of workers by employers, tension
between generations, the alienation of living in a new land and the disdain
faced by those who do not fit in.

"We sing songs about things people cannot express," said band member Hernan
Hernandez during a recent break at Music Annex in Menlo Park, where the band
rehearsed a new album. "We give them what they cannot say. They listen. And they
understand themselves."

The songs ring true for Jesus Martinez, 33, a Santa Clara University political
science professor. A native of Michoacan, Martinez has maintained his Mexican
citizenship, and he still talks with despair about how his father came to
California as a farmworker and truck driver, making little more than $4 an hour
despite working 15 years for the same company.

A positive view

"One finds in their songs a perspective that views Mexican-Americans not in
pejorative terms, but as productive citizens who contribute to both countries,"
said Martinez, who analyzed the group's songs in his doctoral dissertation at
the University of California, Berkeley. "For most Mexican- Americans, most of
whom aren't integrated into U.S. culture or aren't citizens, the songs give them
a channel for the views they have."

The group's music has clearly struck a chord. At concerts, groupies line up to
give band members ideas for new songs. Farmworkers send lyrics they've penned
about their struggles. Fans in the United States tape radio song dedications to
send to relatives in Mexico.

"With other music, you don't even listen to what's being said. But when you
listen to them, you really listen to the words," said San Jose community
activist Sophia Mendoza, 59. "They carry the message about your life, about
what's happening now.

"Some of their music makes me feel very happy," she said. "Some makes me focus
on problems and makes me think of what I have to do to make things better. Their
music has a message of hope, that people can overcome, that things will get
better."

Overcoming tragedies

Los Tigres know that well. The band had to overcome its own share of tragedies
when, last April, Freddy Hernandez, the band's youngest member at age 25, died
of unknown causes in a Los Angeles hotel room after a concert.

Just six months earlier, band member Eduardo Hernandez's wife, Isabel, a solo
recording artist who sang under the name Chavela, died after falling from a
horse during a photo session for an album cover.

The band endured. Over the years, the quintet's catchy rhythms and bold lyrics
have garnered seven Grammy nominations, including one this week for their 24th
album, "La Garra de Los Tigres del Norte" ("The Claw of the Tigers of the
North"). In 1988, they captured a Grammy for best Mexican- American album of the
year.

Their musical direction was established in the late 1970s when the band hooked
up with its former composer, Enrique Franco. From poring over newspapers and
talking to people, their compositions took shape. They began to focus less on
songs about drug smuggling and crime -- some of which were so forthright they
were banned on Mexican radio -- and more on the growing anti- immigrant fervor
sweeping Washington at the time.

'The Gilded Cage'

In 1985, at the pinnacle of that contentious period and just before the approval
of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, the band recorded what they
consider one of their most important songs -- "La Jaula de Oro" ("The Gilded
Cage").

It tells the poignant story of an undocumented Mexican immigrant who sacrificed
to bring his wife and children across the border, only to find himself growing
alienated in this new land and his children increasingly ashamed of their
homeland.

"We talk a lot about immigration because it has given problems to a lot of
people," band leader Jorge Hernandez said. "We talk about families who come from
different countries to learn a different language and lose where they came from.
We tell them it's important not to lose where you are from."

That's something that hasn't happened to the five band members -- Jorge
Hernandez, 42, accordion player and lead singer; Raul Hernandez, 37, singer,
guitarist and player of the bajo sexto, a 12-string guitar; Hernan Hernandez,
36, singer and bass player; Eduardo Hernandez, 33, saxophonist; and Oscar Lara,
37, drummer. Memories of their native Mexican state of Sinaloa remain vivid.

Humble backgrounds

The musicians, members of a rural family with 11 children and a disabled father,
grew up with little food, scant clothing and even fewer hopes. Jorge Hernandez
was only 7 when he began to play the guitar and accordion for audiences to try
to earn a few cents for his family.

When he was 12, Jorge Hernandez and his younger brothers moved to the Mexican
border city of Mexicali to try to find work as musicians. Once there, they were
hired by a local promoter to work in San Jose, where they charged 50 cents to $1
for each song they sang.

In one scary episode, the band members found themselves here undocumented when
an employer ran off with their visas and passports. For three months they waited
for new papers to be processed. At one point, a Border Patrol officer stopped
them to take a closer look at an acoustic bass in the back of their truck.
Fortunately, the officer never asked to see their papers.

It is experiences like these that color their music.

"I know a lot of people who have crossed illegally -- a lot," Jorge Hernandez
said. "I can tell you their stories, what they went through. Most believe they
have better lives here in the United States. But I have a few friends ready to
go back. Some never get used to it here."

Although they are a phenomenon in Spanish-speaking communities, Los Tigres,
whose songs are sung almost entirely in Spanish, have yet to gain a foothold
among mainstream audiences. Yet fans argue the universal themes of hope and
struggle in the band's songs could touch others, particularly those in the
United States, a country whose history and success have been forged by people of
many races and many nationalities.

Other fans go a step further. If they had their way, politicians who have
championed crackdowns on illegal immigration would be required to listen to Los
Tigres' music.

"Their music is full of a je ne sais quoi that moves us all," said Jose Cuellar,
53, chairman of San Francisco State University's La Raza Studies Department and
founder of the Chicano world music group, Dr. Loco's Rockin' Jalapeno Band.
"Those of us who are English-dominant would learn a great deal of the needs and
aspirations of our immigrant population, of their frustrated hopes, their
frustrated dreams. In these songs, it's all there."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LOS TIGRES DEL NORTE
See related articles on page 24A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICHARD HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Los Tigres del Norte sax player Eduardo Hernandez jams as drummer Oscar Lara
watches at practice for a new album.
940305 FR 1A 3; color

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 9, 1994 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

TRUCK CRASHES, KILLING 12 EIGHT MORE ARE BADLY INJURED

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Report

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 494 words


A pickup truck apparently carrying 20 immigrants drifted off Interstate 15 today
near Barstow and slammed into a 10-foot-deep drainage ditch, killing 12 people
and injuring eight, authorities said.

Thirteen people inside the truck with a camper shell were ejected on impact in
the 5:50 a.m. crash five miles south of Barstow in the Mojave Desert, said
California Highway Patrol Officer Angie Britton.

Sneakers, dress shoes, shreds of clothing and a side door were scattered about
the accident site.

Three people were hospitalized at San Bernardino County Medical Center, two at
Loma Linda University Medical Center and three others at Barstow Community
Hospital. Their injuries varied in severity.

One victim told a CHP officer that 19 of the 20 people were undocumented
immigrants from El Salvador and had arrived in the United States overnight,
although that wasn't immediately confirmed, Britton said.

The driver, from Guatemala, survived the crash and could face 12 counts of
vehicular manslaughter, Britton said.

Names not released

Seven of the dead were male, five female. All were adults.

Their names weren't immediately released. It wasn't known where they were going
at the time of the crash, Britton said. A motorist alerted authorities to the
accident by using a freeway call box.

Alcohol didn't appear to be a factor, Britton said.

The 1981 brown pickup drifted off the highway and continued about 190 feet over
rocky sand and dirt before slamming into the culvert, Britton said.

The truck didn't roll over but simply bent back upon itself.

"There were bodies all over the place within a pretty small area," said Robert
Silver, a motorist who said he was among the first on the scene. Inside the cab,
the driver appealed for help, he said.

"Every time I went over to him he said, 'Open the door,' but the door was too
banged up. I couldn't open it," Silver said. "I know enough about CPR to know
that there wasn't much I could do except comfort them."

Bill Peters, a San Bernardino County sheriff's spokesman, said six people died
in the truck cab and seven were ejected from the back of the vehicle.

Cause is unknown

Once the extent of the tragedy was known, dispatcher Carol Martinez quickly
began rounding up helicopters to transport the survivors.

"We don't know if the driver fell asleep or went out of control," she said.
Coroner's officials were prying four bodies from the wreckage hours after the
accident, Peters said.

Two of the injured, a man and a woman, were taken to Loma Linda University
Medical Center, said spokeswoman Anita Rockwell. The man was in surgery and the
woman appeared to have a fractured pelvis and several broken ribs, Rockwell
said.

One person with major injuries and two others with moderate injuries were at San
Bernardino County Medical Center, said hospital spokeswoman Nelda Heft.

Barstow, in San Bernardino County, is about 80 miles northeast of downtown Los
Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Betty Barnacle contributed to this report

GRAPHIC: Map;
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Site of crash
940309 CA 3B PF 2

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 10, 1994 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

MAN GUILTY OF SMUGGLING 5 NOW WILL BE SENTENCED FOR BRINGING IN CHINESE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 208 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


A federal jury has convicted a crew member involved in smuggling Chinese
immigrants into California by boat last summer, bringing to five those to be
sentenced in what prosecutors called a sophisticated ring.

After a two-week trial, the jury convicted crew member Lung Van Nguyen, 35, of
Philadelphia on charges of smuggling immigrants, U.S. Attorney Michael Yamaguchi
announced Wednesday.

The case involved two ships seized in June in Half Moon Bay and Moss Landing.
The 65-foot Angel held 150 immigrants and the 41-foot Pelican held 125. The
mother ship that brought them from China escaped undetected, authorities said.
The two boats were involved in what Yamaguchi called a sophisticated ring that
used Ryder moving trucks to transport the refugees from boats to "safe houses."
Nguyen is a lawful, permanent resident from Vietnam who has lived in the United
States since 1981.

Four others pleaded guilty in the case in February. They include crew members
Duc Van Nguyen, 21, and Ren Tsu Yang, 20; Minh Quoc Lu, 27, of South San
Francisco, who was accused of running a "safe house" where the immigrants
stayed; and Wing Wu, 25, of New York, who was caught taking the people off one
of the boats.

Sentencing is scheduled for May.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               March 11, 1994 Friday SANTA CRUZ/MONTEREY EDITION

SANTA CRUZ YOUTH WORKER WINS INS WORK PERMIT

BYLINE: PAUL ROGERS, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 426 words


Marciano Cruz, who helped coordinate city anti-gang and anti-drug programs in
Santa Cruz's Beach Flats neighborhood until he was forced to resign over
immigration problems last year, may be returning to work soon.

Cruz, 30, was granted a temporary work permit Thursday by officials of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in San Francisco.

"It's a relief," said Cruz. "At least I'll be able to work and support my kids
now. We won't have to worry about missing the rent."

The permit came after several prominent political leaders wrote letters to the
INS in support of Cruz, including U.S. Rep. Sam Farr, D-Carmel and Santa Cruz
Mayor Scott Kennedy.

A former gang member who served time in prison for a 1986 burglary conviction,
Cruz gained the respect of the largely Hispanic Beach Flats community -- and
many city leaders -- by teaching children how to avoid drugs and violence by
recounting his own experiences.

"With his background and the changes he's gone through, he is irreplaceable,"
said Kennedy.

Since June 1990, Cruz had worked part time as a senior playground leader with
the Santa Cruz Parks and Recreation Department, overseeing the after- school
Kids Klub program in Beach Flats for children 6 to 12.

He resigned last March after officials at the state Employment Development
Department notified Santa Cruz City Hall that Cruz's temporary visa had expired.

Since then, Cruz has battled to stay in the United States.

He is scheduled to appear at a deportation hearing May 25 in San Francisco
Immigration Court, where a judge will decide whether he may remain in the United
States while his application for residency is pending.

City parks officials said Thursday they would like to hire Cruz back.

"We want to talk to him about a variety of opportunities," said Dannettee
Shoemaker, recreation superintendent of the city parks department.

Cruz was born in Mexico and first came to the United States in 1980. His wife,
April, a security guard, and two children are U.S. citizens. Her wages have
supported the family during the past year.

Because he could not legally work, Cruz has lectured students in schools across
Santa Cruz County as a volunteer. He also has helped run the Santa Cruz Soccer
league, a collection of 16 teams of adults.

Although still worried about the deportation hearing, Cruz said he is thankful
for the letters and phone calls to the INS from dozens of supportive community
members.

"They had faith in me," he said. "I have faith in God now that something good
will happen."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 11, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IT'S NOT OUR FAULT THIRD WORLD IS MISERABLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 14B

LENGTH: 262 words


A recent letter ("Land of immigrants taking leave of its compassion" March 6) is
typical of the sloppy thinking of those who are crying "immigrant bashing."
Examples:

(check) We can't have immigration reform because of "impoverished conditions in
neighboring countries."

Until poor countries get a handle on their devastating birth rates, poverty in
Latin America and Asia can only increase. America is not rich enough to take in
all the world's people eager to escape the effects of overpopulation, now or in
the future.

(check) "Economic studies . . . show an increase in economic activity and
employment during periods of increased immigration."

The studies supporting the benefits of immigration ignore government debt,
environmental cost and services that are being reduced for Americans to provide
basic services to a never-ending flood of new immigrants.

(check) "Immigrants usually take low-paying, low-prestige jobs."

With 38,000 unskilled immigrants entering California monthly, low-prestige jobs
will never pay well. Immigration puts constant downward pressure on wages for
unskilled workers who are already here.

Tell your representatives that you want big cuts in immigration. It is not the
fault of Californians that the Third World is a miserable place to live. Adding
450,000 immigrants yearly to compete for jobs and services with California's
huge population of poor people is nonsensical.

America's "come one, come all" immigration policy is neither kind, wise, nor
fair. There is nothing liberal about it.

-- Bruce Mathias

Aptos

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 13, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW AMERICAN ARTISTS AS IN THE PAST, IMMIGRANTS ENRICH U.S. ARTS SCENE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6P

LENGTH: 266 words


CALIFORNIA art and nature lovers know the majestic western landscapes painted by
Albert Bierstadt, but many don't know he was an immigrant. Willem DeKooning
pioneered abstract expressionism, and Marcel Duchamp did the same for modern
art. They too were immigrants.

On the Commentary Page to the right are the words of current immigrant artists
who have a show at De Anza College in Cupertino. They have lots to say about
leaving home and finding refuge and freedom, but also discrimination and
identity crises, in America. They are mostly optimistic, which, when you think
about it, is the word that best describes the immigrant in history.

Too often, Americans describe immigrants as a threat and a burden. They usually
are proven wrong. For example, many post-colonial Americans feared German
immigrants never could adapt to democracy and would turn America into a
militaristic society, an idea that seems ridiculous now.

Subsequent waves of immigrants through the 1940s came to the United States to
escape genocide, jihad and repression. Then opportunity beckoned to artists when
the creative and financial center of the art world switched from a shattered
Europe to New York.

Some of today's immigrant artists seek refuge from harsh regimes. Others simply
seek their artistic fortunes. Past immigrant waves were largely European. This
one is Asian, Latin American and African, but the idea that newcomers see with
fresh eyes remains valid.

Among them may be the next Bierstadt. Or maybe not. It doesn't matter. They will
contribute in positive ways to art and to America.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 13, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT ART ENRIQUE CHAGOYA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7P

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: Mexico


These are the voices and works of immigrant artists living in the Bay Area.
Although their work is visual, and mostly public, they are invisible immigrants.

They do not stand out in plain view or in political debates over immigration
like the immigrant farmworker, janitor, maid or day laborer. Yet a thousand
years from now their art will help illustrate the ongoing story of America's
willingness to welcome immigrants, change them and in turn be changed by them.

The works of 15 artists, not all of them represented here, are on exhibit in
"Coming Across: Art by Recent Immigrants, Part 1" through April 20 at the
Euphrat Museum of Art at De Anza College in Cupertino. For further information,
call the museum at (408) 864-8356.

The first shock which you get is that you are missing certain things which you
took for granted from your own country. Nostalgia becomes very strong. You have
a sense of emptiness, a cultural vacuum. You develop a critical standpoint to
both countries.

On the other hand, the lack of integration means a constant need for redefining
yourself. And suddenly you become a different person, like a person from a
country that does not exist, has nothing to do with geopolitical boundaries.
Little by little you find fellow citizens of that country, immigrants, refugees,
etc. There is an easiness communicating. The San Francisco Bay Area is one of
richest areas in the country and world for a plural cultural experience. You
feel you're not a foreigner here.

Real immigration takes place internally. People come here, but it may be years
before they land here. It has nothing to do with paper. Instead of change of
place, it is a journey of the spirit, different from being a nomad. It's a whole
transformation.

On American lands, Native Americans, Chicanos and Puerto Ricans saw themselves
annexed -- this country arrived to them. They experience a form of immigrant
status. But originally they were not immigrants. Who was the actual immigrant?
The U.S. as a dominant culture? Or Native Americans?

In a world which has masses of people who move, we are talking about a spiritual
experience in everybody. Everyone is an immigrant of some kind.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigration: New Beginnings
An occasional series
See also related story on this page.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 13, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT ART CLAUDIA BERNARDI

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7P

LENGTH: 221 words

DATELINE: Argentina


When I came to the United States I started realizing what it means to be an
outsider. I have to say that my arrival to this country was not as difficult as
the arrival of many of the refugees I know. I started school, graduated with a
Masters in Fine Arts degree from UC-Berkeley and became part of the artistic
community of the Bay Area.

Frequently, I am asked if my art is political. I would say that my art is
inspired by political events because those events are part of my daily life. In
many countries one cannot choose to be apolitical. In Argentina, we were all
involved simply because we lived there. The desaparecidos (disappeared persons)
are our people.

My sister Patricia has been a member of the Argentine Forensic Anthropological
Team since its formation in 1984. The task of this team is to exhume clandestine
mass graves. A lot of my artworks refer to the pain of finding people of my own
generation being executed. I cannot help thinking that I could have been one of
them.

My images are not violent. I see them as an alternative to the violence I know
exists. I work with dry pigments on paper. The pigments allow me to create
fields of intense luminosity. The dusting of pigments on the paper is similar to
the archaeological experience of exhuming. It feels like uncovering the hidden
truth.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigration: New Beginnings
An occasional series
See also related story on this page.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 13, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT ART VICTOR MARIO ZABALLA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7P

LENGTH: 117 words

DATELINE: Mexico


It's a challenge being separated from the place where I came from, because my
work relates to geography, environment and landscape. To be in California, a
10-minute walk from the ocean, is a liberation. I came from a place 8,000 feet
above the ocean.

I am a Californian. California used to be part of Mexico. I am a Sonorense. I
love the landscape, the people. I find tenderness and support on both sides of
the border. Whether I'm in Mexico or here, I do the best for my community. I
volunteer in community centers, work with seniors and with youth, often those at
risk with respect to drugs, gangs and dropping out of school. I am a social
artist, just not doing strikes and picket lines."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigration: New Beginnings
An occasional series
See also related story on this page.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TITLE: LIFE AND MOVEMENT
940313 ED 7P 3

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 13, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT ART VI LY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7P

LENGTH: 29 words

DATELINE: Vietnam


When do you stop being an immigrant?

I've had my citizenship forever, but, somehow, I wouldn't feel comfortable just
coming straight out and saying, "I'm an American."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigration: New Beginnings
An occasional series
See also related story on this page.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 20, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AUSTRALIA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 306 words


Population: 17 million (1991)

percent foreign born: 21.4 (1987)

legal immigrants: 116,600 (1991)

estimated illegal population 90,000 (1990)

* immigrant target cut 40% to 80,000 (1993)

* faster application for asylum, refugee status.

CANADA

population: 27 million (1991)

percent foreign born: 16.1 (1991)

legal immigrants: 229,700 (1991)

"Non-permanent" residents (incl. students): 223,000 (1991)

* employer sanctions for hiring illegal aliens

* border authorities can reject "refugees"

* six-month deadline for processing applications for asylum, refugee status

* airlines penalized for taking passengers without proper documents

FRANCE

population: 57 million (1990)

percent foreign born: 7.3 (1990)

total immigrants 176,115 (1990)

estimated illegal population: 400,000 (1990)

* speeded-up asylum application process

* employer sanctions; national ID card

* asylum seekers returned to "safe" countries transited on way to France GERMANY

population: 79.5 million (1991)

percent foreign born: 7.2 (1991)

asylum seekers: 438,200 (1992), 322,800 (1993)

illegal population: up to 300,000 (1985)

* employer sanctions; national ID card; aliens fingerprinted

* border authorities can reject refugees

* asylum seekers returned to "safe" countries transited on way to Germany *
foreign aid to immigrant-sending countries

EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

* computerized alien registration systems

UNITED STATES

population: 252 million (1990)

percent foreign born: 8.7 (1990)

legal immigrants: 973,977 (1992)

undocumented population: 4,800,000 (1992)

* employer sanctions for hiring illegal aliens

* no absolute cap on immigration.

Sources: Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development; Center for
Immigration Studies; U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service; Universal
Almanac 1993; Statistics Canada.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IMMIGRATION: NEW BEGINNINGS
AN OCCASIONAL SERIES
COMMENTARY
See also related stories on this page

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 20, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT INFLUX NO COUNTRY IS A MONO-RACIAL, MONO-CULTURAL PLACE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 427 words


SOME Californians are feeling overrun and overwhelmed by the influx of
immigrants from other parts of the world. But our angst isn't unusual. All over
the world, industrialized countries are reeling from a wave of immigration that
washed over them in the 1980s.

None has closed off immigration altogether - that would be politically and
logistically impossible. But most are tightening their immigration laws to
reduce numbers of immigrants, cut back on illegal immigration, and reduce fraud
in special categories such as political asylum.

There are no success stories directly applicable to the United States, but we
can learn from others' experiences:

Germany, for instance, has successfully cut back on the huge flow of people
requesting political asylum. Entrance requirements were tightened, border
patrols were stepped up, and welfare grants to asylum applicants were scaled
back. The idea was to discourage people who mostly wanted German jobs and
welfare, not protection from political persecution.

But as S.L. Bachman points out on the Commentary page, Germany has yet to
realize that the immigration clock can't be turned back. A lot of people in
Germany and many other European countries still act as if they live in mono-
racial, mono-cultural, mono-lingual countries. It's just not true, and the
longer they refuse to face up to the multicultural truth, the longer it will
take to control nay-sayers who would rather harass or throw out anyone who
doesn't look, sound or cook like them.

Immigration is really the story of human migrations, and that's a story as old
as human history. Anti-foreigner backlashes are also nothing new. But
assimilation occurs.

Look around. Immigrant groups that used to be hated - Irish, Italians, Germans -
produce today's mayors, professors, business tycoons, teachers, you name it.
Today's immigrants will eventually become as accepted as these former
scapegoats.

Americans are ahead of people of many other countries. Most of us came from
immigrant stock. The melting pot is part of our own stories. Yet with more and
more newcomers on the block, adjusting is not always easy.

Like Germany, the United States needs to take better control of its borders and
reduce immigration fraud. But also like Germany, the more important task is to
come to grips with the changing makeup of our population. Throughout this year,
Mercury News editorials and columns will explore what it means to be a nation of
immigrants. Today's Commentary page provides a global perspective. It's a good
place to start.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 20, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AS THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE INCREASES IN POOR NATIONS, THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE AT THE
BORDERS OF RICH COUNTRIES DOES, TOO. THE HUMAN TIDE COMES IN

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 1670 words


A BACKLASH against immigrants is whipping through industrial countries, slamming
border doors shut. The reason can be found in the numbers: Unemployment is 7
percent in the United States, and between 9 and 12 percent in Germany, Italy,
the United Kingdom, Canada and France.

That's the first thing to know when talking about immigration worldwide. The
backlash is primarily driven by economies tightening after several boom years,
when immigrant workers were welcomed. Cultural factors - societies gagging on an
influx of people with different languages, religions, traditions - come second.

There is no easy way to compare immigration policies of different nations. Each
nation's unique blends of history, economics, culture and public policy
determine its ability to welcome and assimilate newcomers.

Nevertheless, some truths apply around the globe:

* Few nations are mono-racial or mono-cultural anymore, although many nations
think they are.

* Some immigration is inevitable, and so is some backlash against newcomers. But
failure to acknowledge diversity often makes the backlash worse. * Nations that
fail to control their borders to limit the pace of immigration encourage panic,
and that sometimes makes the backlash worse.

* As long as populations rise faster in poor countries, the number of people who
want to get into rich countries - through the legal front door or illegal back
door - will increase.

Today's immigration debate is a reaction to a tide of human migration from poor
countries that swept through the industrial world in the 1980s. (The United
States and Germany took and continue to take the bulk of new immigration;
immigration fell off in many other developed countries in 1992 and the first
part of 1993.)

The United States took in about 9 million legal and illegal immigrants and
refugees in the 1980s. About one-half of immigrants, legal and illegal, came to
California. Some projections suggest that 10 million to 12 million may come to
America in the 1990s.

Canada accepts about 250,000 immigrants annually, equivalent to almost 1 percent
of its population. Anti-foreigner sentiment comes and goes in Canada, but on the
whole, it is much less of a problem than in countries that don't think of
themselves as immigration countries, and fail to plan for it.

Philip Martin, an economist at the University of California at Davis, says the
three engines of immigration are misery and poverty pushing people out of their
own countries; demand for cheap labor in industrial countries that pull them in;
and networks of immigrants that, once established in a country, pull in more
from their home countries.

Europe has planned badly. Germany is an example. Like France and other European
nations, Germany opened its doors to "guest workers" in the 1960s. But Germany
maintained the fiction that it was a mono-lingual, mono-cultural, mono-racial
society. When the economic tide ebbed, Germans turned to throw out their
"guests" and discovered they had become permanent residents. Becoming a
naturalized Germany citizen is extremely difficult, and so most foreigners had
not even tried. Throwing them out was politically and socially divisive. And so
foreigners, especially Turks, became scapegoats. There were nearly 2,600 acts of
right-wing violence in 1992. The number fell to 1,814 in 1993 after the
government cracked down on right-wing groups.

The guest worker program remained strong into the 1970s, and then declined. But
another stream of migrants continued to flow: political refugees. After World
War II, Germans, trying to pay back the world for Nazi violence, opened their
doors to political refugees. But the method of processing asylum claims was
extremely slow. Germany's social services filled in the gap, with free housing
and welfare payments while asylum seekers waited for a judgment on their cases.

In the late 1980s, the system overloaded. The numbers of asylum applicants
mushroomed: In 1990, Germany took in over 1 million immigrants, asylum seekers
and illegal immigrants, equal to over 1 percent of its population.

Abuses of Germany's welfare system increased. When the two Germanys became one
in 1990, and West Germany's national budget surplus disappeared into the former
East Germany, the liberal asylum policy suddenly became an economic and social
millstone. Again, the unassimilated newcomers became scapegoats.

Most industrialized countries suffer from similar social and economic strains
from immigration. They welcomed immigrant labor in the past, when their
economies were doing well. Now that unemployment is high, newcomers with
different traditions and languages are suddenly perceived as a social problem.
Foreign populations also sometimes act different: They tend to be poorer, a
greater percentage of newcomers are unemployed; and their birth rates tend to be
relatively high. Since 1975, native Germans, for instance, haven't been
producing enough children to keep the population growing; big families are the
norm among many immigrant groups.

Europe has suffered two bad reactions. Violence against foreigners has risen.
Right-wing politicians, preaching hatred for other cultures and races, have
gained support.

Right-wing violence has risen not only in Germany, but also in Italy, where
"naziskins" (fascist skinheads) have attacked foreigners, and anti- foreigner
slogans are a staple of fascist campaigns for the parliamentary election
scheduled for March 27-28. Anti-fascist demonstrations also have increased.

In France, the conservative government has been attacked on the right by a
fascist, anti-foreigner movement.

The United States, too, is feeling the strain of the unusually high level of
in-migration in recent years. States that take the bulk of immigrants, such as
California and Florida, are trying to get the federal government to pay more of
the costs of absorbing immigration.

Immigration policies distinguish among several kinds of immigrants: legal
economic migrants; undocumented aliens; refugees; candidates for political
asylum; families of citizens; students; tourists. Host nations try to control
them by figuring out why they come, and how to convince some not to come.

Every major industrial nation except the United States and Japan has tightened
its immigration policies in the last couple of years (see table of selected
policies), mostly by screening legal immigrants more carefully and faster.
(Japan's were tight, but police didn't crack down on illegal immigration until
the economy slumped.) For six or seven years, the European Community has been
trying unsuccessfully to write a common migration policy. (The United States
last tightened its immigration policies in 1990.) Some of the legal changes are
too new to have had significant impact. But these lessons already are clear:

* Germany's crackdown on political asylum has had a dramatic effect. Stiffer
regulations went into effect in July last year, and the number of asylum
applicants immediately dropped by one-third.

Germany and many other European countries now send political asylum applicants
back to countries they have crossed on the way to Germany, if those countries
are deemed safe.

* France's laws, which went into effect Jan. 1, are more bark than bite.
Children born in France of non-French parents will no longer receive automatic
citizenship - they'll have to ask for it. Police are stopping more people -
especially Africans - and ejecting illegal immigrants.

* Several countries have much more draconian methods of keeping track of their
populations than we do. Countries such as Germany, France, Italy and Sweden
require people to carry national identification cards. Some countries - notably
Canada and Germany - have begun fingerprinting applicants for political asylum.
In the first six months after the system was put in place, authorities
identified more than 17,000 immigrants who filed more than one asylum claim,
says Rosemary Jenks, a senior analyst at the Center for Immigration Studies, a
non-partisan, non-profit think tank in Washington.

* Canada and Australia carefully regulate the economic, family and humanitarian
mix of the immigrant stream. But these countries are not good general models,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, because
their immigration controls are "only partially selective and not easily
transposable."

The Law of Unintended Consequences upsets planning. The 1965 policy change to
allow all countries in the eastern hemisphere to send a fixed number of people
to the United States was not supposed to change the overall immigrant mix, then
mostly European. Instead it inaugurated an era of increased Hispanic and Asian
immigration that continues today, according to Martin, the UC-Davis economist.
Also, laws designed to keep out illegal immigrants are quickly flouted by
labor-hungry employers, the Organization for Economic Cooperation notes.

It takes a lot to get most people to pick up and move. The vast majority of
people in this world live and die within a few miles of where they are born. Yet
as absolute numbers of people increase in poor nations - where populations are
increasing much faster than in rich countries - the absolute numbers of people
standing at the borders of rich countries are increasing. Since human beings are
endlessly inventive, it will be harder to keep them out. And since many of their
relatives and friends are already here, it will be harder to keep the doors
closed.

Tad Homer-Dixon, a Canadian academic quoted in the February edition of the
Atlantic Monthly, likens the citizens of the rich world to passengers in a plush
limousine, riding through a ghetto.

Shut-'em-out immigration policies amount to locking the doors and barring the
windows. That might keep the people inside safe, until they need to get out. In
the meantime, the sight of the limousine passengers riding around in locked-in
luxury will simply make people outside more desperate to get in.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IMMIGRATION: NEW BEGINNINGS
AN OCCASIONAL SERIES
COMMENTARY
See also related stories on this page
S.L. Bachman is a Mercury News editorial writer.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
DESPERATE DASH - Undocumented immigrants run across Interstate 5 near San Diego
to cross into the United States.
940320 OP 6C

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 25, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. GRANTS ASYLUM TO GAY MEXICAN HE CITES PERSECUTION BY THE POLICE

BYLINE: BOB EGELKO, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


A gay Mexican, who said police harassed and raped him in his native land before
he fled to the United States, has been granted political asylum in a case his
lawyer called precedent-setting.

It is the first time the Immigration and Naturalization Service has granted
asylum in a claim of persecution based on sexual orientation, attorney Ronald
Silberstein said Thursday.

"We hope that this decision is a wake-up call to governments all over the world
that the persecution on account of someone's sexual orientation is
unacceptable," Silberstein said at a news conference.

His client, who used the pseudonym of Jose Garcia, said the INS decision "saved
my life." He said he hoped it sent a signal to all gays "that there are
countries in the world which respect the human rights of all (their) citizens."
Fear of persecution

Garcia, who said he was in his 30s and had been in the United States illegally
for about a decade, won the right to remain permanently when an INS asylum
officer ruled March 18 that he had established a "well-founded fear of
persecution" in Mexico because of his membership in a particular "social group."

The INS had not previously concluded that gays were a "social group," a category
protected by asylum laws if fear of persecution is established, Silberstein
said. He said the decision, though not legally binding on other INS officers,
should establish a precedent for similar cases elsewhere.

INS spokesman Duke Austin confirmed that the decision had been reviewed at INS
headquarters in Washington before it was issued.

The decision sets no precedent and does not mean that all gays from Mexico are
eligible for asylum, Austin said. But he said it was a logical conclusion that
"if a gay who's being persecuted in Mexico can get (asylum) on that grounds,
then a gay who's being persecuted in any other country can get it on that
grounds."

In July, an immigration judge in San Francisco granted asylum to a Brazilian
homosexual, a decision the INS is appealing. The Board of Immigration Appeals in
1990 barred deportation of a Cuban homosexual.

Silberstein said Garcia's case was different because the INS did not oppose
asylum, but instead "recognized that sexual orientation is clearly a social
group." He said another distinction was that Garcia was not under a deportation
order, but instead walked into an INS office and applied for asylum.

Harassment, extortion

Garcia, from Coahuila, Mexico, said he knew he was gay at an early age, after
being beaten by schoolmates as a child. He said cultural prejudice against gays
affected his family. He quoted a grandmother as once telling him, "It would have
been nice if you had been born a man."

As he grew up, he said, police arrested him for walking in certain
neighborhoods, patronizing certain bars and attending certain parties, falsely
accused him of crimes and extorted money from him.

He said that once when he was a teen-ager, he and a friend were driving and were
stopped by police, who told the friend to go home and get some money if he ever
wanted to see Garcia again. While the friend was gone, he said, one of the
officers raped him.

"As a gay man in Mexico, life was made intolerable for me," he said. "I had no
one to turn to. When I learned that being gay in the United States was not only
tolerated but even accepted in some areas, I had only one desire: to flee Mexico
for some kind of freedom in the United States."

An activist volunteer

He said he spent an entire night crawling across the border at Calexico. After
living in Chicago and Miami, he said, he wound up in San Francisco, where he has
worked as a volunteer and a paid employee in gay-rights and anti- AIDS
activities.

Despite those public activities, he declined to give his real name or allow
photographs. "You don't know where the future will lead," he said.

Besides Garcia's experiences, the INS also was given evidence of the involvement
of police and military authorities in the assassinations of gays and doctors
working against AIDS in certain parts of Mexico, Silberstein said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 29, 1994 Tuesday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

COPS ROLE WITH INS AT ISSUE MTN. VIEW CHIEF, HISPANICS AT ODDS

BYLINE: S.L. WYKES, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 390 words


Unable to resolve their differences informally, Mountain View police and
Hispanic leaders are expected to face off before the city council tonight over
the role of local police during immigration raids.

Mountain View Police Chief Brown Taylor is expected to tell the council that he
wants to formalize a policy that allows local officers to show up during
Immigration and Naturalization Service raids only to control traffic and prevent
people from being hit by cars.

But Hispanic leaders have not given up trying to persuade city officials to
legislate a ban on any police presence at the raids.

Reynaldo Herrera, a U.S. citizen who has lived in Mountain View for 13 years,
said it is the sight of patrol cars, not INS agents, that creates the kind of
panic that Taylor fears could trigger the hazard of someone running in front of
traffic.

"When INS officials come, they come in unmarked cars, so there is no commotion.
But the minute patrol cars come and surround the area, that's when the commotion
starts," Herrera said.

Taylor said Mountain View's proposed order is an almost verbatim copy of those
found in San Diego and San Jose, two cities where the INS is active.

"We're there for the safety of the community," he said. "I'd feel real
uncomfortable letting (people) fend for themselves running across the street."
Attention was focused on the police department's role in raids such as last June
when two laborers were arrested by the INS and transported in a Mountain View
police car at the request of a federal agent.

Taylor later admitted that had been a mistake and that the department would not
again get that involved.

The general order Taylor will propose to the council today says that police will
show up at raids "only to provide for the general safety and welfare of all
community members."

It specifies that officers will not, under any circumstances, initiate or become
involved in actions designed to discover a person's immigration status. But
Herrera and Latinos Unidos de Mountain View, a recently formed group of
long-term city residents, will instead ask the council to consider passage of an
ordinance that forbids any police presence at INS raids.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Mountain View City Council will meet at 7:30 p.m. tonight in Mountain View
City Hall at 500 Castro Street.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     March 29, 1994 Tuesday STREET EDITION

U.S. SEEKS TO SPEED UP ASYLUM REQUESTS BUT SOME FEAR THAT MOVES TO INCREASE
PROCESSING WILL JUST ADD TO THE BUREAUCRACY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 516 words

DATELINE: Washington


Swamped by 150,000 asylum requests a year, the Clinton administration is taking
steps to speed up processing, but critics fear it will merely create a new
backlog elsewhere in the system.

The backlog now stands at 370,000 cases, and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service estimates it could hit 500,000 cases by the end of the year. In New York
and Miami, it can take more than year to get an asylum case heard by an
immigration judge.

Federal officials and immigration advocates said Monday the Justice Department
is ready to double the number of officials who adjudicate claims, impose a $130
processing fee for those who can afford it and delay work permits until six
months after application.

In a major change, the new system will take over new claims immediately. "We're
adopting a last-in, first-out policy," said one government official, speaking on
condition of anonymity. "We are going to process new applications first and not
immediately deal with the backlog."

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner was to provide details of the changes at a news
conference today. Proposed regulations are to be printed in the Federal Register
this week, with a final version due by summer.

But Arthur Helton, director of migration programs for the Open Society
Institute, said, "There's a real risk that this will simply transfer the backlog
from one office to another within the Justice Department."

The administration plan to increase, perhaps double, the 85 immigration judges
simply does not add enough judges to handle the caseload, said Helton, whose
pro-immigration foundation was established by Hungarian-born financier George
Soros.

Helton, who worked on the immigration transition for the Clinton administration,
said the 85 judges have other business and only decide 20,000 asylum claims a
year. Doubling the number might add 40,000 asylum decisions, but Helton thinks
they would be given an additional 120,000 cases a year "because the new system
may involve less work for an immigration officer to refer cases to immigration
judges than to grant asylum."

The government official said, "We're trying to discourage claims based on no
sound evidence but merely on a desire to get a work permit."

Applicants with no real chance of getting asylum can now get work permits just
90 days after applying and work for years while they wait for their claims to be
denied. To get asylum, an applicant must have a well-founded fear of ethnic,
religious or political persecution if returned to his or her country of origin.
The new system envisions that immigration officers who handle these claims --
their numbers doubled to 300 -- will be able to process meritorious claims
within 60 days and hand out a work permit at the same time.

Those not given asylum within 60 days will be handed a notice to appear before
an immigration judge for a deportation hearing. They will not be able to get
work permits until six months after they applied for asylum.

In addition, the immigration service will begin fingerprinting asylum applicants
to eliminate duplicate applications.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 29, 1994 Tuesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S. SEEKS TO SPEED UP ASYLUM REQUESTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: Washington


Swamped by 150,000 asylum requests a year, the Clinton administration announced
steps today to speed up processing, but critics fear it will merely create a new
backlog elsewhere in the system.

The backlog now stands at 370,000 cases, and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service estimates it could hit 500,000 cases by the end of the year. In New York
and Miami, it can take more than year to get an asylum case heard by an
immigration judge.

At a news conference, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner announced a proposed
"fast-track" method of reviewing applications for asylum that would include
granting legitimate claims within 60 days. A proposed regulation for the plan
will be published this week in the Federal Register, with a final version due by
summer.

"The reforms we propose will preserve fundamental legal protections for
legitimate asylum-seekers while addressing the problems of asylum abuse,"
Meissner said. "We do not want the close the door on people who are persecuted,
but we cannot allow others to take advantage of a process they don't really need
or deserve."

Meissner said the Justice Department is ready to double the number of officials
who adjudicate claims, impose a $130 processing fee for those who can afford it
and delay work permits until six months after application.

In a major change, the new system will take over new claims immediately.

"Our emphasis here is to get on top of current" applications, Meissner said. But
Arthur Helton, director of migration programs for the Open Society Institute,
said, "There's a real risk that this will simply transfer the backlog from one
office to another within the Justice Department."

The administration plan to increase the immigration judges from 85 to 135 simply
does not add enough judges to handle the caseload, said Helton, whose
pro-immigration foundation was established by Hungarian-born financier George
Soros.

Helton, who worked on the immigration transition for the Clinton administration,
said the 85 judges have other business and only decide 20,000 asylum claims a
year. Doubling the number might add 40,000 asylum decisions, but Helton thinks
they would be given an additional 120,000 cases a year "because the new system
may involve less work for an immigration officer to refer cases to immigration
judges than to grant asylum."

Meissner said the government is trying to discourage claims based on no sound
evidence but merely on a desire to get a work permit.

Applicants with no real chance of getting asylum can now get work permits just
90 days after applying and work for years while they wait for their claims to be
denied. To get asylum, an applicant must have a well-founded fear of ethnic,
religious or political persecution if returned to his or her country of origin.
The new system envisions that immigration officers who handle these claims --
their number increased from 150 to 334 -- will be able to process meritorious
claims within 60 days and hand out a work permit at the same time.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
INS Commissioner Doris Meissner announces the "fast track" asylum processing
today.
940329 FR 6A PF 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 7, 1994 Thursday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

SKIPPING OUT ON INN BILLS GETS MAN 45 DAYS IN JAIL

BYLINE: S.L. WYKES, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 285 words


An Algerian who wove a complicated web of tall tales about himself at Stanford
University was sentenced Wednesday to spend 45 days in jail as punishment for
the effects of two of his inventive stories.

Abdelghani Attou, 26, was convicted of two misdemeanor counts of defrauding an
innkeeper -- he had rented rooms at two Stanford guest houses using false names
and then left without paying.

He told people on campus he was -- Swedish, Swiss, a visiting scholar from
Oxford University in England, a doctor, a doctoral candidate in computer
science.

None of that was true. Those who knew him say he was, however, smart, well- read
and quite gentlemanly.

Attou's attorney, Riccardo Ippolito, who worked the case for free, said his
client told a Santa Clara County Municipal Court judge Wednesday he is sorry for
what he did and that he has learned his lesson.

Attou has already been in jail long enough to fulfill the judge's sentence, but
the question remains whether he can get out on his own. Attou has been held
without bail, on an immigration hold, since his arrest at the San Francisco
International Airport on March 7. The immigration hold on Attou remains in place
and he will not be released except to an immigration agent, said a sergeant at
the Santa Clara County Jail late Wednesday afternoon.

County prosecutors were glad to have Attou back -- Stanford police had arrested
him on the defrauding charges in January and he had been released on bail.

Attou was also sentenced to three years of probation. To maintain that probation
he must pay back Stanford $624 by June 2. If he does not, he could be liable to
serve six months jail time on each of the two defrauding counts.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 9, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE STATE OF IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 87 words


Community leaders are invited to take a look at the impact of immigration on
California's economic, political and social system during a "Symposium on Ethics
and Immigration," 1 to 5 p.m. April 17, at Santa Clara University. Participation
is limited to 100. Training in the ethics case-study methods will be offered in
follow-up sessions. The symposium is sponsored by Santa Clara University, the
Catholic Diocese of San Jose and the Interfaith Task Force on Immigration. For
more information, call (408) 554-5004.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 10, 1994 Sunday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

INS TO EASE UP ON LABORER SWEEPS MTN. VIEW: ACTIVISTS' PLEA HEEDED, BUT THERE'LL
BE NO MORATORIUM, OFFICIAL SAYS.

BYLINE: DAVID W. CHEN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 610 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has promised Hispanic activists
in Mountain View that it will ease up on its sweeps of day laborers who line El
Camino Real looking for work so local groups can try to resolve the problem, a
top INS official said Friday.

While declining to declare a six-month moratorium on immigration raids as had
been sought by activists, Philip Waters, acting district director for INS in San
Francisco, said the agency would concentrate less on day laborers and more on
employers who employ illegal immigrants.

"I couldn't promise them (a six-month moratorium), but I said, 'Look, if you can
alleviate the situation, I'm not about to roust people around,' " Waters said in
a telephone interview. "I'm making it lower down on the priority list. We don't
really want to go down to Mountain View."

The INS adjusted its policy following a mid-March meeting with Latinos Unidos de
Mountain View in which Hispanic activists requested leniency and immigration
agents noted manpower problems in enforcement.

If INS officials do stay away, it would mean one less worry for civil rights
advocates, police and businesses trying to stitch together an agreement that
gets the workers off the streets without offending ethnic sensibilities.

"We need to have this cooling-off period where the INS won't get involved," said
Latinos Unidos spokesman Reynaldo Herrera. "We certainly hope they won't (carry
out raids) -- otherwise they'll blow everything."

On March 29, the Mountain View City Council agreed to look into the possibility
of enacting a ban on local police providing traffic control during immigration
raids. Council members also agreed to quickly establish a human relations
commission to sort out problems of ethnic diversity.

More than 40 people spoke during that heated, four-hour meeting, indicating the
intense level of interest in an issue that has been bubbling for years.

Immigration enforcement has been a bone of contention since day laborers began
to gather at El Camino Real and San Antonio Road, prompting complaints from
merchants and raids by the INS.

In one recent sweep a Mountain View police officer transported two men who had
been detained by an INS agent to an INS van because immigration officials said
they were short-handed. In another operation, Mountain View police officers were
posted at side streets to reroute incoming traffic. Police Chief Brown Taylor
later admitted the department should not have helped with detaining and
transporting the day laborers.

On one side of the controversy stand the business owners who say the men scare
off customers by littering, spitting and urinating. The merchants are joined by
the Save Mountain View Coalition, a group founded last summer to oppose illegal
immigration. They advocate closer police cooperation with the INS to prevent the
city from, as one member said, "becoming a Third World outpost."

On the other side are Mountain View residents and advocates for immigrants who
say the men are just trying to support their families. Hispanic residents say
their children now fear the police because they've watched police officers help
immigration agents.

Waters said the INS wanted to help resolve, not worsen, the situation by trying
to crack down on employers who pay low wages to illegal aliens and no taxes,
instead of targeting the day workers.

"I want to give these groups a chance," Waters said. "I'd rather be working the
criminals and getting them off the street than just the plain old illegal
worker. Unless the situation gets to a point where businesses are affected and
it gets worse, we're going to step back."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter version ran on page 1B of the Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 19, 1994 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FILLING TOP PROFESSIONS IN U.S., STUDY SAYS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: Washington


Immigrant professionals are getting higher-paying jobs than native-born
Americans in science, medicine and several other professions, with Asians
outdistancing all others in some fields, according to a new study.

The census-based study found more foreign-born Indian doctors than native- born
black doctors, and a striking disparity in median salaries among racial groups.
And it found significantly larger proportions of Asian and white professionals
than blacks or Hispanics.

"Asian professionals are now outdistancing, numerically, their white
counterparts in engineering, math and computer science, natural sciences,
college teaching and medicine and the health professions," the report concluded.

The report by the Center for Immigration Studies suggested that if the trend
continues, it could result in a three-tier structure of professional jobs and
salaries with Asians pushing toward the top, whites in the middle and blacks and
Hispanics at the bottom.

The independent research center has published several reports showing the impact
of immigration on American society and the economy.

The report credited foreign-born professionals with providing a "double gift" to
the United States by enriching scientific research and education and by
providing services for people who would not otherwise get them. It also noted
that the children of foreign-born professionals tend to perform well
academically and to become professionals themselves.

But it said the increase of foreigners in professions has led to neglect of
native-born minorities.

"The United States may be neglecting the interests of the native-born,
particularly minorities, in its increased reliance on foreign scientific and
technical talent," the report said. It cited a trend toward acceptance of more
foreigners in American graduate schools, while the number of black Americans
earning advanced degrees is declining.

The study covered a variety of professions in physical and social sciences,
health services, teaching, legal fields and artistic endeavors.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart;
CHART: How salaries compare
Median salaries of U.S. professionals by race, foreign-born and native-born
940419 FR 8A 2; v. bar chart

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 28, 1994 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INEXPENSIVE LIFESAVER SAN JOSE SHOULD FUND IMMIGRANT FIRE SAFETY PROGRAM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 271 words


ONE of the best lifesavers ever invented is the lowly smoke detector. It has
reduced American fire deaths from 12,000 to 5,500 a year in a little over a
decade. No wonder. When that inexpensive and simple device goes off in a house,
everybody jumps and knows what to look for.

Well, almost everybody. Newcomers to this country aren't all familiar with smoke
detectors. The results can be tragic, and avoidable.

Take the death of 2-year-old Nghia Dinh last year in San Jose. The Vietnamese
American infant was sleeping in his bedroom when a fire started, according to
fire officials, but none of the adult occupants recognized the smoke detector's
alarm.

They thought the screeching noise was coming from a car outside. By the time
firefighters arrived, it was too late to save the baby boy.

Dinh's death moved fire prevention experts in the San Jose Fire Department to
launch the Multicultural Fire Safety Education Program. They've been meeting
with Vietnamese and Mexican-American community groups to get the word out on
smoke detectors and basic fire prevention methods to recent immigrants, some of
whom arrive from places that have no detectors or even fire departments.

But the program suffers for lack of money. A request for $30,000 is working its
way through the budget process. The money would pay for the translation and
printing of educational materials that could save lives and avoid property
damage and loss.

Money is tight for every city service, but the fire safety program for
immigrants promises to be as thrifty and effective as the simple smoke detector.
City Hall should fund it.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 7, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ACTIVIST WINS ASYLUM, LACKS FREEDOM

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: Port-au-prince, Haiti


Maurice Damicy, one of thousands of Haitians in hiding from military-allied
killers, beat incredible odds by persuading the United States to accept his
application for political asylum.

Now he just has to get out of Haiti alive.

While U.S. officials process visas for Damicy, 30, his wife and five children,
the family plays a cat-and-mouse game with Haitian soldiers and their armed
civilian allies.

The gunmen have intensified their hunts in recent weeks for supporters of exiled
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Those seeking asylum in the United States must prove to U.S. immigration
officials in Haiti they face persecution. Only 1,200 have succeeded out of about
30,000 who have tried in the two years that the policy has been in place, said
Luis Moreno, the U.S. State Department's refugee coordinator in Haiti.

U.S. officials believed the asylum appeal of Damicy, a former coordinator of
Aristide's political party in the central Artibonite Valley town of Verrettes.
He said he was kidnapped March 27 and survived five days of beatings at a secret
detention center.

A bitter smile showed two front teeth were missing -- he said they were knocked
out in captivity. Damicy said he does not know why he was dumped semiconscious,
bleeding from the head and back, onto a rural road March 31 instead of being
killed.

His case received quick attention by U.S. officials, and his asylum request was
approved last month. "I felt like I was saved from all this sadness and death,"
Damicy recalled of the day he was accepted. "But now I see that since I've
gotten all documents, they're not in a hurry to process it."

Moreno said it usually takes a couple of weeks to process the paperwork. When
ready, U.S. officials put those awarded asylum on commercial jetliners to the
United States.

Damicy, who is staying in a safe house, urged U.S. officials to hurry.

"I could die before then," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related articles on page 4A

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     May 9, 1994 Monday STOCK FINAL EDITION

NO SURGE OF HAITIANS EXPECTED, OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: Washington


The Clinton administration said today its new policy of giving Haitian boat
refugees an opportunity to seek asylum at sea won't result in new waves of
immigrants flooding Florida's shores.

The policy, spelled out Sunday by President Clinton, also includes stepped up
international sanctions against Haiti's military dictators and the appointment
of former Rep. William Gray as special adviser on Haiti.

Economic refugees will continue to be returned to Haiti, but changes must be
made to protect "some who genuinely fear for their lives," Clinton said.

Clinton issued an executive order today putting his actions on Haiti into effect
and sent an official notification to Congress, restating the U.S. determination
"to end the assault on democracy and human dignity in Haiti."

The executive order bans arriving and departing flights and overflights stopping
or originating in Haiti, except commercial passenger flights, and blocks funds
and financial resources of Haitian military officers and those who took part in
the 1991 overthrow of the Aristide government.

Clinton's deputy national security adviser, Sandy Berger, said today he didn't
think there would "be overwhelming numbers" of Haitians granted asylum because
most would not be considered political refugees deserving of asylum.

"There were 1,300 people so far this year who were picked up on boats," Berger
said, and probably only 5 percent qualified as political refugees.

"The real problem here is what's going on in Haiti," Berger said on ABC. "And
the real solution is to get the military leaders who are perpetuating this
terrible violence in that country to stop."

Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles disagreed with Berger's contention that there would
be no great influx of refugees, saying on ABC that in spite of the
administration's efforts, "a lot still get through. And we don't need more waves
and waves in Florida. We're sort of awash right now."

Gray, a former congressman from Pennsylvania and House majority whip who now
heads the United Negro College Fund, said he shared Clinton's "determination to
help end the suffering of the Haitian people at the hands of their military
leaders."

Gray replaces Lawrence Pezzullo, who was forced from office last month because
of differences over the administration's faltering Haiti policy. Pezzullo
alienated exiled Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and some in the State
Department by calling for political reconciliation among the different factions
in Haiti.

The policy moves came as the administration seeks to blunt criticism that it is
too tough on refugees or too weak on the military leaders who overthrew
Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected president, in a September 1991
coup.

The administration in recent days has also pushed the United Nations to impose
tougher economic sanctions if the military leaders do not agree by May 21 to
step down and restore Aristide to power.

Clinton said a six-week review made clear that his Haiti policy had to be
changed.

He spoke of intensified killing and mutilation of civilians and said he was
increasingly concerned that forced repatriation of all boat people "may endanger
the safety of those who have valid fears of political persecution."

He added: "I don't believe the policy we have now is sustainable given the level
of political violence" in Haiti.

Aristide, exiled in Washington, said in a statement that Clinton's plan for
offshore processing was a "step in the right direction" but said "it will not
protect the millions of Haitian citizens who continue to face increased violence
in Haiti."

Randall Robinson, head of the TransAfrica lobbying group, said he was ending a
hunger strike Sunday after 27 days because he was assured that more attention
would be given to political refugees.

"It's an important step in the right direction that we take pains to identify
those people who have a well-founded fear of persecution," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Gray
940509 FR 4A PF 4
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Randall Robinson of the TransAfrica Forum dines in Washington with his wife,
Hazel, on Sunday, after ending a 27-day hunger strike.
940509 FR 4A PF 1

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 16, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

E PLURIBUS WHO? DIVERSITY AND UNITY IN AMERICA

BYLINE: Joanne Jacobs

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 299 words


AMERICA is a nation of immigrants, but many Americans believe that today's
immigrants are reluctant to become Americanized.

In response to the first "E Pluribus" forum, we received dozens of letters from
readers worried that multiculturalism is dividing our society into hostile
ethnic groups. A few said they enjoyed interacting with people from many
countries and cultures; many more said they welcomed ethnic diversity only if
newcomers are willing to assimilate and learn English.

Carol Wilson, who teaches English and English as a Second Language at Mission
College, is the modern equivalent of the Mr. Parkhill, the harried teacher in
"The Education of H(star)Y(star)M(star)A(star)N K(star)A(star)
P(star)L(star)A(star)N." Most of her students are recent immigrants from
Vietnam, Mexico, El Salvador, Pakistan, China, Korea, Ethiopia. "They
desperately want to learn English," Wilson says. "They want to learn it as
quickly as possible so they can enter the mainstream."

Public celebrations of Cinco de Mayo or Tet sometimes upset native-born
Americans. Some of Wilson's Vietnamese students skipped the college's Tet
celebration. They used the time to study their English.

When Wilson asks students to write about how their cultural identity differs
from the dominant U.S. culture, "many of them do not want to discuss
differences. They are far more interested in exploring their similarities."

Wilson gave her introductory composition students the option of writing on the
common bond that holds Americans together, the American dream or the cultural
diversity of the United States.

Some of their essays appear on this page. I don't think they sound much
different from the older generation of new Americans. They could have been
written by my grandfather, or yours.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
See also related stories on this page

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 16, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MELTING POT OR ETHNIC MELTDOWN?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1166 words


I AM 14 years old, and it is my dream for America that people will stop seeing
other people as white, African-American, Hispanic, Asian, etc., and just look at
people as people. We're not so different that we need to be so categorized. We
as Americans all have something in common, and it's not really all that hard to
find it. It lies in our minds.

My ancestors, along with the Asian and Hispanic immigrants of today, were all
drawn here in a quest for something to believe in, for ideals, for a hope to be
something better. It's the essence of the American Dream. It holds our country
together.

Krissi D. Pulliam, San Jose
IT used to be that immigrants coming here had this dream: They wanted to live,
work, look and speak like Americans. Their goal was to blend into a new society
and enjoy the advantages it offered. They worked hard, and most succeeded. Their
children were brought up as Americans. Their main, and often only, language was
English.

This has somehow changed. It seems to have been become popular to exhibit one's
"roots" and remain different. Is there a better way to invite discrimination?
Sure, you should remember the land of your origin, but you have now chosen to
become an American, and many of the old ties must be broken.

Having arrived in this country as an adult immigrant I know it takes hard work
and determination to become integrated in a new society, but that soon pays off.

Despite all apparent differences people are basically the same, and this
discovery made it easier for me. I also found that Americans are eager to assist
immigrants who show that they really want to become part of their new country.
-- Sigurd J. Rosenlund, Campbell
TOUTING slogans such as "the center will not hold" or "Bosnia" merely reduces
the growing cultural mosaic in the U.S. to a dangerously unproductive, emotional
level of discourse.

We have always been diverse. Our entire history is the story of intercultural
contact and conflict. The difference today is that for the first time, people
who are not European descendants are starting to acquire a bit of economic and
political power. Until white Americans begin to examine our own heritage and
uniqueness and the power relationships between cultural groups, we will all
remain locked in a fear-driven discussion.

This is not a zero-sum game: Our goal should be a society where everyone feels a
sense of ownership and control.

-- David Gerard, Morgan Hill
PUBLIC discourse in a free press, its protection by law and the Constitution are
for the most part traceable directly to the English parliamentary system and to
other West European political institutions.

A descendant of someone who landed on the Mayflower is no more and no less an
American than someone who was naturalized last week. But American values do
present a dilemma. What are commonly held to be important American values (the
"common ground") are woven historically and culturally into a European heritage
that many minorities and immigrants view with mistrust and resentment. Yet the
political tolerance necessary for multiculturalism appears to be sustainable
only in societies dominated and sustained by that heritage.

-- Skip Wall, San Jose
I COULD start out by dwelling on my being a Franco-American, but I won't.
Rather, I feel comfortable living and traveling among America's multi- cultures.
Knowledge does it for me: of our nation's history, of my own, of our
constitutional inheritances, of English and other languages.

I admit that it has helped that my skin is white. But that is now less and less
an entree into the power realm of the supposed Anglo elite. At age 71, my
baldness and my wrinkles create my niche.

It's being an accepted part of the multicultural pattern of this society that
does it for me. I like being a part of the warp and woof that make the brilliant
fabric of our cultures. I enjoy observing the traditions of those thriving
cultures that are much more intact than my fragmented "Franco- ness."

Yet I enjoy using some of the French I remember, words and phrases, as well as
keeping an eye on the vicissitudes of France, and of Ireland, where one- fourth
of my forebears originated. I do this to keep in touch with this part of my
identity. But what I celebrate is the larger whole to which I belong.

It's the contemporary ebb and flow of this multiculture that fascinates me.
Laissez les bon temps rouler!

-- Richard J Bernard, Watsonville
AMERICANS can be proud of their cultural ancestry but by choosing to live in
America they must give up publicly living that other culture. This means they
must learn English and speak, read and write English outside of their home.

Public education should be conducted in English only; no tax dollars should be
spent on bilingual education or bilingual driving tests, voter pamphlets,
library books and so forth. All public signs and advertising should be in
English only.

Public funds should be spent only on activities that apply to all Americans, and
that focus on American ideals, values and history. In other words, no more
government support for the Vietnamese Tet Festival, Chinese New Year, Cinco de
Mayo, etc. The only legal holidays should be non-religious and strictly American
such as President's Day, Memorial Day, 4th of July, and Thanksgiving.

My four grandparents were German, Italian, French and English. The English
ancestors came on the Mayflower, and the others much later, but the point is
that they all gave up those cultures and became Americans.

-- Cynthia Newman, Santa Clara
"DIVERSITY" sounds well-intended, as do most elements of feel-good liberalism.
However, there are grave, adverse, unintended consequences of this nation-wide
hyper-emphasis on our differences and of the devaluing of our common American
culture and heritage.

Our wise founders were well aware of how dangerous factionalization can be in an
open, heterogeneous democracy. The constant focus on our differences is
polarizing the nation. It has fueled an over-all climate of anger and rage, with
factions pitted against factions.

Contrary to the position of the diversity activists, there certainly is a
unified American heritage, a common culture, and common principles on which our
great nation is founded. These are liberty, private property, free enterprise,
limited central government, personal responsibility, and the observation of
behavioral standards and moral values.

"Multiculturalism" is ultimately divisive and destructive.

-- Leslie Lam

Mountain View
I MOVED from India to the U.S. three years ago. I believe in a universal human
culture that knows no geopolitical boundaries and think that American culture is
a part of it. Just as all religions preach peace and harmony, all cultures
propagate broadly similar values. It is in the best interest of all to imbibe
what they feel is good from other cultures. One of the things I have learned
from Americans is "work hard, play hard."

-- Rachna Dhir, Sunnyvale

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
See also related stories on this page

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: REID BROWN--MERCURY NEWS
940516 ED 7B

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 21, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON STICKS TO HIS PLAN FOR BUDGET GOVERNOR STILL PINS HOPES ON IMMIGRATION
AID

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


Further complicating efforts to balance the state's budget, the Wilson
administration said Friday it won't decide until mid-June whether to count on
federal immigration aid -- $3.1 billion almost nobody expects -- to settle its
books.

The Republican governor tinkered slightly with his $39 billion general fund
spending plan, reporting that because California has begun to emerge from its
economic slumber, the state has about $280 million more than he expected in
January.

"California's economy is improving," said Wilson's budget chief, Russell Gould.

But the difference between existing levels of state spending and current
receipts is still $3.8 billion, a gap Wilson would bridge by so-far unspecified
cuts, by borrowing, or both.

The non-partisan Legislative Analyst's Office, relying on a less rosy scenario,
has put the budget gap at $5 billion.

Wilson and Democratic legislative leaders have been saying for weeks that they
expected relatively easy budget approval this year because they intended to
count on $3.1 billion in federal immigration aid.

Even though the White House has said the state can expect only about $500
million, top state lawmakers have said the reliance on what some call the
"mystery money" would allow Wilson and them to get through Election Day this
November without making politically unpopular budget cuts.

Facing the bad news

But Gould told reporters at a Capitol news conference Friday that Wilson may be
willing to confront what is likely to be bad news from Washington by June 15,
the Legislature's constitutional and widely ignored deadline for budget action.
"We're going to have to make an assessment in mid-June of where we are," Gould
said. "We're going to have to make a realistic assessment of what kind of
federal reimbursements we can expect and then proceed to a balanced budget.
We're going to fight for every dollar."

Wilson plans a trip to Washington next week to step up lobbying for money over
which California has filed suit in U.S. District Court in San Diego.

In contrast to recent years, Wilson's May rewrite of his budget plan --
typically setting the stage for a monthlong fight over its approval -- was not
calamitous.

The revised budget includes most of what Wilson called for four months ago,
including no cuts in per-pupil spending for students in kindergarten through
high school, massive cuts in welfare grants, and higher community college fees.
It calls for $33 million in extra spending on prisons as the effects of
California's new "three strikes, you're out" law begin to take hold.

Property tax revenue to dip

Because of historic housing depreciation, particularly in Southern California,
the state will lose $500 million more than expected in property taxes. But that
loss is offset, in part, through lower than expected demand on the state's
classrooms and medical services.

Wilson also has ordered that funds for the controversial California Learning
Assessment System (CLAS) tests be removed from his budget until an audit of its
performance is finished.

"We believe that through legislation, modifications can be made to that program
and should be before it is funded," said Gould, director of the state Department
of Finance.

Administration officials said its revised budget picture was conservative when
compared with private economic projections.

State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, a Democrat and Wilson's most formidable foe in
this year's gubernatorial contest, assailed the revised Wilson budget as a
farce.

"It was a lie when he proposed it and it remains a lie today," Brown said in a
statement faxed to political reporters. "Wilson's budget is still cobbled
together on the hope and prayer that the federal government will balance
California's budget with $3.1 billion."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 22, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HEALTH CARE FOR IMMIGRANTS LIKELY TO LAG, OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: DONNA ALVARADO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 383 words


One of California's biggest health care issues -- how to provide medical care to
immigrants -- is unlikely to be solved by health care reform, a former state
health director said Saturday.

There is little public support to extend health insurance to undocumented
workers, Dr. Molly Coye told a community forum meeting in San Jose. The
recession has created financial tensions that have led many people to blame
immigrants for the state's problems, she said.

"There tends to be scapegoating," said Coye, now vice president for a local
network of hospitals called Good Samaritan Health Systems. "Within California,
things turned ugly as the economic situation deteriorated."

The real reason for the state's budget problems is that population growth and
tax revenue have not kept pace with exploding costs of various state programs.
The biggest cost increases have come in the budget for prisons, followed by
Medi-Cal, welfare and schools, Coye said.

Although many people view immigrants as a drain on the health care system, they
are often healthier than their U.S. counterparts when they first arrive here,
Coye said.

Smoking rates are lower in Hispanic and Asian women than in white women. And
ethnic immigrants often are accustomed to meals heavy on vegetables and grains
until they learn fast-food habits in this country.

"The more Americanized each group becomes, the less healthy they become," Coye
said.

An executive with Santa Clara County's public hospital also told the audience
that having health insurance doesn't guarantee that people have access to
medical care.

Although many people have insurance from Medi-Cal, the government program that
pays health care bills for low-income people, they can't always find a doctor or
hospital to treat them. "They tend to be more sick. They tend to be more costly
medical patients," said Anne Moses, associate director at Santa Clara Valley
Medical Center.

As a result, only three of the county's 13 hospitals accept a substantial number
of Medi-Cal patients, Moses said. "As long as doctors can say they don't want to
serve people, there may not be universal access," she said.

Moses also predicted that health care reform is likely to be gradual because it
would be very expensive to cover most people now uninsured.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 23, 1994 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS REPORTEDLY USING FAKE FINGERPRINTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 92 words


Convicted criminals from other countries may have been granted residency or
other benefits in the United States because they were able to circumvent
background checks with fraudulent fingerprints bought from street vendors,
according to an inspector general's report on the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

When an immigrant applies for naturalization, the immigration agency directs the
person to local professional fingerprinting services. But when the person
submits prints, the agency has no way of knowing whether they are genuine.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       May 23, 1994 Monday STREET EDITION

MAJORITY OPPOSE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: New York


A majority of Americans believe most recent immigrants cause problems, as
opposed to making contributions, and one in five want to send them all back
home, according to a CBS News poll.

Twenty-nine percent of those surveyed for the "60 Minutes" poll released Sunday
said they think immigrants contribute to the United States, and 53 percent said
they cause problems.

In the long run, only 16 percent said immigrants would make American society
better, 41 percent said they would make it worse and 32 percent said they
wouldn't affect it one way or the other.

Sixty-five percent of those surveyed said hard times make it difficult to
continue welcoming immigrants who arrive with few assets. That's up from 60
percent who felt that way in a poll taken last June, and up 20 percentage points
from a 1986 poll, CBS said.

Although the poll shows an increasingly negative view toward immigration, only
34 percent said they believe it is time to halt all immigration. Nineteen
percent said America should always welcome newcomers, and 43 percent said only
some immigrants should always be welcome.

Thirty-one percent said immigrants take jobs from Americans, but 52 percent said
the jobs are the kind Americans don't want anyway.

Results are based on telephone interviews with 1,210 adults Jan. 3-5. The poll
had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points, CBS said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 25, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. LAWYERS ARGUE AGAINST ASYLUM FOR CHINA'S BIRTH-CONTROL POLICIES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


Clinton administration lawyers say refugees who flee China because of a threat
of mandatory abortion or sterilization aren't entitled to political asylum
despite an executive order by former President Bush.

In papers filed last week with federal judges in San Francisco and Los Angeles,
Justice Department lawyers said a 1990 order by Bush, granting "enhanced
consideration" to asylum requests based on China's coercive birth-control
policies, was unenforceable.

Instead, the administration lawyers said, courts should follow a federal
immigration board's conclusion in 1989 that there was "no evidence that China's
birth-control policy was a subterfuge for (political) persecution."

Unless the policy was applied selectively in a particular case -- for example,
singling out a member of a particular religious group, a political dissident or
an opponent of the policy itself for severe treatment -- it does not constitute
grounds for asylum, the lawyers argued.

The lawyers represent the department's Office of Immigration Litigation and the
local U.S. Attorney's Office.

The Justice Department has taken a similar position in a series of cases in
Virginia, but these apparently are the first cases raising the issue in
California, said Alphan Tsoi, a lawyer for the refugees in San Francisco and Los
Angeles.

Tsoi and other immigrants' lawyers argue that Bush's order extends asylum to
anyone who fled China because of a reasonable fear of compulsory abortion or
sterilization.

No judge in California has ruled on that question yet. Federal judges in
Virginia have issued conflicting rulings.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 25, 1994 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 206 words


Immigrants pay $30 billion more in taxes than they use in public services,
according to an Urban Institute report; however, immigrants cost local and some
state governments more in benefits than they pay in taxes, particularly after a
decade of federal cuts in immigrant-related programs, the report said. * The
Clinton administration ordered a study of safety problems posed by the tons of
plutonium left over from the Cold War; a review was ordered for 14 Energy
Department facilities -- from laboratories to weapons plants -- so more can be
learned about potential hazards. * The Justice Department asked the Supreme
Court to throw out an appeals-court ruling that prosecutors committed fraud by
withholding evidence that favored alleged Nazi death-camp guard John Demjanjuk;
if the petition is successful, it could clear the way for the United States to
again deport the retired Cleveland autoworker who last year had his conviction
overturned by the Israeli Supreme Court. * Legislation authorizing the Martin
Luther King Jr. Holiday Commission to spend $2 million over five years and
directing it to use the holiday to promote community service passed in the
Senate; the House approved a similar bill in March.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 4, 1994 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATORS FACE NEW TAXES ON PARKING EXPERTS TESTIFY ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services, Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 180 words


In yet another blow to the perks of office, senators and their senior staffers
were notified that they no longer are entitled to free assigned parking in
underground garages unless they are willing to pay taxes on it. Underground
parking at the Russell, Dirksen and Hart Senate office buildings will remain
tax-free for those willing to hunt for an open parking space. But senators and
their aides who insist on reserved parking will be socked with additional income
taxes on the imputed value of that space.

0 growing sentiment against immigrants in America can be blamed on hard economic
times, an activist told the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights on Friday. Stiffer
competition for jobs leads many Americans to become more resentful of legal and
illegal immigrants, said Maria de Los Angeles Jimenez, director of immigration
monitoring for American Friends Service. Jimenez was one of seven experts
invited to testify before the commission about discrimination against
immigrants. The commission is researching immigration issues to prepare for any
future initiatives.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News In Brief
Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 127 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 5, 1994 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

YEAR OF FEAR;
WORRIES ABOUT CRIME, ECONOMY, IMMIGRANTS DOMINATE
POLITICAL DISCOURSE IN 1994 PRIMARY

BYLINE: MIKE CASSIDY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1180 words


As California voters head to the polls for Tuesday's primary, they should be
facing an election for the ages.

Never have so many run for so much. Term limits and a fierce campaign for
governor have led to the most competitive political years in memory.

The campaigns of 1992 offered legitimacy to new ways of taking campaigns to
voters: cyberspace, MTV, talk radio and television. The issues facing the state
are riveting. A stubborn recession. A smaller defense industry that is throwing
thousands out of work. Schools that not only fail to educate children but also
occasionally fail to keep them safe.

Despite its potential, this primary season has been anything but inspiring.
Instead of rushing to the polls carrying hopes of a bright new day, voters will
likely carry the message candidates have been sending them for months: Be
afraid. Be very afraid.

Think of 1994 as the Year of Fear. Listen to the campaign themes:

* Crime. The bad guys are out there. They are preparing to beat you, rob you,
harm your children and maybe even kill you.

* Immigration. People who don't belong here are pouring over the border. They
will take your jobs, use the resources intended for your children's education
and take advantage of social services you've been paying for for years.

* The economy. Sure, it's getting better in other parts of the country, but not
here.

It is a long way from 1992, when Ross Perot stirred a sizable part of the
electorate with the promise of a new way to run the country and Bill Clinton and
Al Gore won the White House by urging people to rekindle hope and embrace
change. It also seems a long way from the Year of the Woman, which saw record
numbers of women elected to Congress on the promise that new people would bring
new solutions and sensitivities.

That was then. That was before a 12-year-old girl was snatched from her bedroom
in Petaluma and slain. That was before Republicans like Gov. Pete Wilson and
Democrats like Sen. Dianne Feinstein began talking tough about illegal
immigrants, lending an air of political correctness to what had been a touchy
subject. That was before economists started telling the rest of the country that
happy days are here again, while California companies continued to lay off
thousands.

"The well-being of the state is an issue right now," said Larry Gerston, a San
Jose State University political science professor, who says preying on fears is
a time-tested campaign strategy. "The fears come from stress, alienation,
anxiety . . . the feeling that institutions have let us down."

Politicians know that crime, immigration and the economy are the most important
issues because public opinion polls tell them so. It would be risky for a
politician to promise to solve a problem that voters haven't focused on. Take
the state budget, which is billions out of balance, says Bob Brownstein, San
Jose Mayor Susan Hammer's budget director.

"Candidates are desperately trying to talk about anything but the main issues
that confront the state," said Brownstein, who has railed against the state's
recent practice of balancing the budget with money once set aside for cities,
"because they have no idea how to solve them or they have no idea how to solve
them in a way that the electorate will tolerate."

And so, the drumbeat continues. You're not safe in your home. You're not secure
in your job. Immigrants are coming to take your piece of the pie.

Hardly inspiring stuff.

"There are no leaders who generate passion," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a policy
analyst at the Claremont Graduate School. "There is a sort of negative vision
that says, 'If I don't watch out for myself, no one person, no one agency is
going to be able to do it for me.' "

There is no mystery to the candidates' choice of campaign topics. Despite
statistics showing a modest drop in violent crime, fear of crime has moved to
the top of the problem list in public opinion polls. In the wake of the Polly
Klaas slaying, drive-by shootings and random massacres, California residents now
say they are as worried about crime as they are about the economy, according to
a March Los Angeles Times Poll.

The fear of crime has consumed the country, according to a recent poll conducted
by the New York Times and CBS. In September 1992, 10 percent of those asked said
crime was the country's most serious problem. The economy was cited by 30
percent. In April, 25 percent had settled on crime as the biggest problem, while
just over 15 percent said it was the economy.

"Now, people in the suburbs are feeling threatened and so it's a real issue,"
said Mark DiCamillo, director of the San Francisco-based Field Poll. "It
permeates local politics as well as national politics."

Wilson, facing poor popularity ratings, has seized on crime. He hopes to portray
his most likely challenger, Democrat Kathleen Brown, as weak. And so, Wilson
used his State of the State speech to propose a $2 billion prison building
program and life sentences for child molesters.

Not to be outdone, state Treasurer Brown announced her challenge to Wilson from
the steps of the police station where her grandfather worked. She included in
her speech a hardy endorsement of the "three strikes, you're out" law, which
some say the state cannot afford. It calls for sentences of 25 years to life for
those convicted of a felony after previously having been convicted of two
violent felonies.

Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi, who is running against Brown and state
Sen. Tom Hayden in the Democratic primary, joined the chorus by calling for an
end to the prisoners' bill of rights.

But crime is by no means the state's only problem. Both opinion polls and the
politicians who read them say so. Mindful of a recent Field Poll, which shows
that 61 percent of Californians say they are extremely concerned about illegal
immigration, Wilson traveled to the Rio Grande in Texas to personally inspect a
get-tough Border Patrol program that would be of questionable value along
California's rugged border with Mexico. For her part, Brown proposed issuing
tamper-proof Social Security cards and instituting a $1 border crossing toll to
help pay for beefed-up enforcement. Garamendi said he would see Brown's
tamper-proof Social Security card and raise her night-vision goggles and
high-intensity lights at the border to stop illegal crossings.

Seeking to stake out her own territory, Brown seized on the economy, a perennial
worry and no doubt a sore subject for incumbent Wilson. Brown said she would
create 1 million new jobs in her first term. It's a goal, she said, not a
promise.

Wilson countered that in good times those jobs would create themselves, an
interesting argument but one that hardly inspires hope among those facing
unemployment.

In the end, there may be some cause for optimism. Come Wednesday, the campaigns
will enter a new phase as the surviving candidates fight their way toward
November's general election. Perhaps, the new phase will bring new and
meaningful rhetoric.

Then again, perhaps not.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Voter's Guide for June 7 primary election

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
