
                               1 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            October 1, 2002 Tuesday

Davis puts brakes on illegal immigrant driver's license plan;
Despite revisions, he says proposal still lacks important safeguards

BYLINE: By Don Thompson, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Gray Davis vetoed legislation letting some illegal immigrants obtain
California driver's licenses Monday, as he completed action on some of the most
controversial bills sent to his desk this fall.

The governor's politically charged decision forced him to weigh what he said
were increased security risks from licensing non-citizens after last year's
terrorist attacks against the urging of immigrant rights groups that said it
would make California's highways safer.

Davis demanded a series of safeguards, including fingerprint background checks
and cooperation with the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

That angered Hispanic groups vital to his re-election campaign. Earlier in the
day, however, Davis signed legislation supported by Hispanic groups giving
increased bargaining power to farmworkers.

Legislators reluctantly amended the driver's license bill to comply with the
governor's concerns as they rushed to adjourn a month ago.

But Davis enumerated five specific loopholes in addition to a handful of other
areas where he said the language still fell short of what he had requested.
Without those safeguards, Davis said the bill was too dangerous.

"The tragedy of Sept. 11 made it abundantly clear thatthe driver's license is
more than just a license to drive; it is one of the primary documents we use to
identify ourselves," Davis said in his veto message. "Unfortunately, a driver's
license was in the hands of terrorists who attacked America on that fateful
day."

The bill's author, Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, had said the revised
legislation should have been enough to not only satisfy Davis, but was actually
improved by lawmakers.

California highways would be safer by having all drivers trained and insured,
said proponents. But in addition to Davis' security concerns, opponents
complained licenses encouraged illegal immigration and gave a state privilege to
lawbreakers.

Davis had until midnight Monday to act on the legislation, which took on huge
symbolic importance for immigrants, particularly groups representing
California's large Mexican population.

Cedillo initially estimated as many as 1 million of the state's roughly 3
million undocumented immigrants would be eligible, though his staff subsequently
acknowledged the actual number could be far lower.

Just 130,000 people applied to adjust their status to permanent residents or
extend temporary visitor visas in all of California, Hawaii, Nevada and Arizona
over the last year, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

On the Net:

Read AB60 and SB804 at www.assembly.ca.gov

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                               2 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           October 2, 2002 Wednesday

Davis vetoes driver's license bill;
Thumbs down comes despite denunciations by Latino community

BYLINE: WIRE REPORTS , Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 297 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Gray Davis vetoed legislation Monday letting many illegal immigrants obtain
California driver's licenses.

The decision forced Davis to weigh what he said were increased security risks
from licensing non-citizens after last year's terrorist attacks against the
urging of immigrant rights groups.

Davis had demanded a series of safeguards, including fingerprint background
checks and cooperation with the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service,
angering Hispanic groups vital to his re-election campaign.

Legislators reluctantly amended legislation to comply with the governor's
concerns as they rushed to adjourn a month ago, but aides to the governor said
the language still fell short of what he had requested.

The bill's author, Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, countered that the revised
legislation should be enough to not only satisfy Davis, but was improved by
lawmakers.

California highways would be safer by having all drivers trained and insured,
proponents said. But besides Davis' security concerns, opponents complained
licenses encourage illegal immigration.

Davis had until midnight Monday to act on the legislation. The bill took on huge
symbolic importance for immigrants, particularly groups representing
California's large Mexican population.

Cedillo initially estimated as many as a million of the state's roughly 3
million undocumented immigrants would be eligible, though his staff subsequently
acknowledged the actual number could be far lower.

Just 130,000 people applied to adjust their status to permanent resident or
extend temporary visitor visas in all of California, Hawaii, Nevada and Arizona
over the last year, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

------

On the Net:

Read AB60 at www.assembly.ca.gov

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                               3 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      October 1, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Illegal-immigrant licenses vetoed;
GOVERNOR SAYS MORE SAFEGUARDS ARE NEEDED

BYLINE: Don Thompson Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Gray Davis vetoed legislation letting some illegal immigrants obtain
California driver's licenses Monday, as he completed action on some of the most
controversial bills sent to his desk this fall.

The governor's politically charged decision forced him to weigh what he said
were increased security risks from licensing non-citizens after last year's
terrorist attacks against the urging of immigrant rights groups that said it
would make California's highways safer.

Davis demanded a series of safeguards, including fingerprint background checks
and cooperation with the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

That angered Latino groups vital to his re-election campaign. Earlier in the
day, however, Davis signed legislation supported by Latino groups giving
increased bargaining power to farmworkers.

Legislators reluctantly amended the driver's license bill to comply with the
governor's concerns as they rushed to adjourn a month ago.

But Davis enumerated five specific loopholes in addition to a handful of other
areas where he said the language still fell short of what he had requested.
Without those safeguards, Davis said the bill was too dangerous.

"The tragedy of Sept. 11 made it abundantly clear that the driver's license is
more than just a license to drive; it is one of the primary documents we use to
identify ourselves," Davis said in his veto message. "Unfortunately, a driver's
license was in the hands of terrorists who attacked America on that fateful
day."

The bill's author, Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, had said the revised
legislation should have been enough to not only satisfy Davis, but was actually
improved by lawmakers.

California highways would be safer by having all drivers trained and insured,
said proponents. But in addition to Davis' security concerns, opponents
complained licenses encouraged illegal immigration and gave a state privilege to
lawbreakers.

Davis had until midnight Monday to act on the legislation, which took on huge
symbolic importance for immigrants, particularly groups representing
California's large Mexican population.

Cedillo initially estimated as many as 1 million of the state's roughly 3
million undocumented immigrants would be eligible, though his staff subsequently
acknowledged the actual number could be far lower.

Just 130,000 people applied to adjust their status to permanent residents or to
extend temporary visitor visas in all of California, Hawaii, Nevada and Arizona
over the last year, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      November 18, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Hearing will be held today on jailed foreigners

BYLINE: Newsday

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Somewhere in the United States, as many as three dozen foreigners, most likely
Muslim or Middle Eastern men, sit locked up in immigration jails after being
arrested on suspicion that they have ties to or knowledge of the Sept. 11
terrorists. They are the remnants of the largest law enforcement sweep in
America in decades, the relatively few left in custody after authorities
arrested more than 1,200 foreigners on immigration violations as part of the
Sept. 11 terrorism investigation.

Today, in an open courtroom in Washington, D.C., far removed from those secret
cells, lawyers for the government and a coalition of advocacy groups will
present their arguments about whether the identities of all the Sept. 11
detainees should be made public. Hearing the case will be a three-judge panel of
the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, which will
decide whether to uphold a lower court ruling that ordered the government to
release detainee names but few other details.

Few of the hundreds picked up on immigration violations as ''special cases'' of
interest to the FBI's terrorism investigation are still in custody. Most have
been deported or released, according to immigration lawyers and figures released
by the government.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 6, 2003 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Tyson Foods conspiracy trial opens;
COMPANY ACCUSED OF SMUGGLING, HIRING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By Bill Poovey; Associated Press

SECTION: BU; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, Tenn.


A greed-driven plot that reached the top levels of Tyson Foods used illegal
immigrants smuggled into the country to keep poultry plants running, a
prosecutor said as the company's federal conspiracy trial opened Wednesday.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John MacCoon said secret tape recordings would help him
prove the conspiracy started in 1994 after plant managers had difficulty hiring
help legally at low wages. He said company officials turned to a shadowy
pipeline of illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America.

''This trial is about corporate greed,'' MacCoon said. He said illegal workers
at Tyson plants in Shelbyville and Wilkesboro, N.C., at one point outnumbered
legitimate employees.

Tyson's attorney, Tom Green, said any hiring of illegal immigrants was done by a
few plant managers and was not known to executives at Tyson headquarters in
Springdale, Ark.

''No one in senior management knew,'' Green said. ''No member of senior
management ever violated immigration laws or encouraged'' anyone else to do so.

Green told jurors to expect one or more former Tyson employees to testify:
''Hopefully, I will get them to admit they did this on their own.''

A December 2001 indictment accuses Tyson and three company officials of taking
part in a conspiracy in which illegal workers were smuggled to plants in
Tennessee, North Carolina, Virginia, Indiana, Missouri and Arkansas.

Tyson attorneys turned down a government demand for $100 million to have the
charges dismissed. They have also accused the government of using undercover
agents to entrap Tyson employees.

MacCoon said he would prove the conspiracy through secretly recorded
conversations between undercover agents and Tyson managers, and through the
testimony of two former Tyson managers who have struck plea-bargain deals.

Border Patrol agent Benjamin Maldonado told jurors he posed as an immigrant
smuggler and was introduced to ''various Tyson managers.'' He described 26
deliveries of illegal immigrants to Tyson plants in six states.

Maldonado said he was introduced in 1997 to Shelbyville store owner Amador
Anchondo-Rascon, a former Tyson employee. Anchondo- Rascon has said Tyson
managers asked him to supply them with illegal immigrants, complete with fake
identification.

MacCoon said Tyson sought illegal immigrants because they ''would work for low
wages and never complain -- no matter how much they were exploited.''

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 25, 2003 Tuesday PS1 EDITION

Campaign touts law on immigrant tuition cut

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 519 words


A statewide public service campaign to promote a law that allows undocumented
immigrant college students to pay lower in-state tuition, was launched Monday.

The radio and television campaign by the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Education Fund is hoping to reach between 10,000 and 12,000 college students who
qualify statewide, said Maria Lucero Ortiz, director of MALDEF's program that
does outreach to immigrants on higher education issues.

''We're making sure that no one is left behind getting educational opportunities
they're legally entitled to,'' Ortiz said, referring to Assembly Bill 540, which
took effect last year. ''We know people know about the law but we want to iron
out confusion about the exact requirements.''

The commercials will air for three months primarily in 10 California counties
with large immigrant communities, including Santa Clara, San Mateo and San
Francisco counties in the Bay Area.

Many non-profit immigrant advocacy groups have been promoting the new law, but
there has not been a statewide campaign. No one is sure how many students have
taken advantage of the law, which is designed for undocumented children who
attended and graduated from high schools in California.

''We're talking about children who were not involved in the decision-making of
their parents to immigrate to the United States,'' said Richard Hobbs, Santa
Clara County's citizenship director.

The law allows the students to pay the lower, resident tuition rates at
community colleges and schools in the California State University and the
University of California systems. Non-resident community college students, for
example, pay an average of $141 per unit each semester; a resident pays $11 per
unit.

''A statewide campaign is definitely needed, and it's great that MALDEF is
taking the lead,'' said Lisa Castellanos, community education program director
for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network (SIREN), a San Jose-based
immigrant advocacy group.

''If the main obstacle for some students is how to afford college,'' Castellanos
said, ''this kind of campaign is needed to help those students know that they
can go to school.''

California was one of the first states in the United States to adopt such a law,
along with Utah and New York. Illinois, Massachusetts, North Carolina,
Minnesota, Oklahoma and Wisconsin are considering similar proposals. Texas has a
more generous law: It allows undocumented students to also apply for state
financial aid.

Despite growing national support for laws like AB 540, a debate rages on. Groups
that support strict immigration controls are raising new objections.

''The irony is the state of California is $35 billion in the hole and is looking
to extend costly benefits to people who are breaking the law,'' said Ira
Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national group that opposed AB 540.

For additional information on AB 540, visit the Web site of the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Education Fund at www.maldef.org

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      February 25, 2003 Tuesday F1 EDITION

Campaign touts law on immigrant tuition cut

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 519 words


A statewide public service campaign to promote a law that allows undocumented
immigrant college students to pay lower in-state tuition, was launched Monday.

The radio and television campaign by the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Education Fund is hoping to reach between 10,000 and 12,000 college students who
qualify statewide, said Maria Lucero Ortiz, director of MALDEF's program that
does outreach to immigrants on higher education issues.

''We're making sure that no one is left behind getting educational opportunities
they're legally entitled to,'' Ortiz said, referring to Assembly Bill 540, which
took effect last year. ''We know people know about the law but we want to iron
out confusion about the exact requirements.''

The commercials will air for three months, primarily in 10 California counties
with large immigrant communities, including Santa Clara, San Mateo and San
Francisco counties in the Bay Area.

Many non-profit immigrant advocacy groups have been promoting the new law, but
there has not been a statewide campaign. No one is sure how many students have
taken advantage of the law, which is designed for undocumented children who
attended and graduated from high schools in California.

''We're talking about children who were not involved in the decision-making of
their parents to immigrate to the United States,'' said Richard Hobbs, Santa
Clara County's citizenship director.

The law allows the students to pay the lower, resident tuition rates at
community colleges and schools in the California State University and the
University of California systems. Non-resident community college students, for
example, pay an average of $141 per unit each semester; a resident pays $11 per
unit.

''A statewide campaign is definitely needed, and it's great that MALDEF is
taking the lead,'' said Lisa Castellanos, community education program director
for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network (SIREN), a San Jose-based
immigrant advocacy group.

''If the main obstacle for some students is how to afford college,'' Castellanos
said, ''this kind of campaign is needed to help those students know that they
can go to school.''

California was one of the first states in the United States to adopt such a law,
along with Utah and New York. Illinois, Massachusetts, North Carolina,
Minnesota, Oklahoma and Wisconsin are considering similar proposals. Texas has a
more generous law: It allows undocumented students to also apply for state
financial aid.

Despite growing national support for laws like AB 540, a debate rages on. Groups
that support strict immigration controls are raising new objections.

''The irony is the state of California is $35 billion in the hole and is looking
to extend costly benefits to people who are breaking the law,'' said Ira
Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national group that opposed AB 540.

For additional information on AB 540, visit the Web site of the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Education Fund at www.maldef.org

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 21, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PANEL OKS IMMIGRANT DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Legislation to help undocumented immigrants get California driver's licenses is
headed for the full Assembly.

The bill, which has become involved in the campaign to recall Gov. Gray Davis,
was approved Wednesday by the Assembly Appropriations Committee with Democrats
supporting the measure and Republicans opposing it.

The bill would help undocumented immigrants obtain driver's licenses by allowing
them to submit a federal taxpayer identification number or some other
state-approved form of identification to the DMV instead of a Social Security
number.

Davis has vetoed two similar bills since he became governor, citing law
enforcement's concerns about the legislation. But earlier this month, at an
anti-recall rally in Los Angeles, he said he would sign the latest bill "in a
heartbeat" if it reaches his desk.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 22, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL HITS SNAG;
VOTE ON MEASURE FOR UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS DELAYED

BYLINE: ANN E. MARIMOW, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Legislation to let as many as 2 million undocumented immigrants apply for
driver's licenses stalled in the Assembly on Thursday after Senate Democrats
raised last-minute concerns about fraud.

"We want to be sure we're not encouraging identity theft or fraud, or setting up
a system that is going to impinge on people's civil rights and would cost a
fortune," said Sen. Debra Bowen, D-Redondo Beach.

Still, the bill's sponsor Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, said he is confident
the measure will be successful once his colleagues have had time to review the
details. The bill could come up for a vote again as early as Monday.

The driver's license bill has also become ensnared in recall politics. After
twice vetoing similar measures because of security concerns, Gov. Gray Davis
announced last month that he would sign this year's less restrictive bill in a
"heartbeat." Davis reiterated his support in Los Angeles on Thursday.

Davis' reversal has sparked criticism from Republicans, who accuse the governor
of pandering to his Democratic base to defeat the Oct. 7 recall vote.

On the Assembly floor Thursday, Republican Russ Bogh of Yucaipa criticized
Democrats for fast-tracking the bill, which has fewer safeguards than last year.

"Are you really willing to compromise the safety of California for a measure
that is only intended to extend or save governor Davis' failed political
career?" he said.

For five years, Cedillo has pressed to give undocumented immigrants the ability
to apply for licenses and buy car insurance. Cedillo contends that California's
roads would be safer if immigrants were licensed.

Under current law, residents must provide a Social Security number that can be
validated through the Social Security Administration. Under Cedillo's bill,
applicants could instead use a federal taxpayer identification number from the
Internal Revenue Service.

But in a letter to the Department of Motor Vehicles this month, the IRS warned
of "potential security risks."

To win support from a long list of law enforcement officials, though, the bill
includes the creation of a high-tech, digital database of fingerprints that
would allow the Department of Motor Vehicles to validate an applicant's
identity.

Despite that, the California State Sheriffs' Association remained opposed to the
measure Thursday, because of the cost of fingerprinting and because taxpayer
numbers are "easily obtained and difficult to verify."

Davis' office defended the revised legislation.

"The governor listens to the experts," said spokesman Russ Lopez, "and their
opinion is that this is a bill that will make our streets safer."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 27, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL IS ASKING FOR FRAUD;
GOOD INTENTIONS, BAD LEGISLATION

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 533 words


California's Legislature is poised to approve legislation that has a virtuous
veneer -- issuing driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants -- but a
dangerous security hole large enough to allow for widespread identity fraud.

With his political career and the support of Latino and union groups in the
balance, Gov. Gray Davis is eager to sign a bill granting 2 million undocumented
immigrants the right to a driver's license.

Too eager. By declaring a month ago he'd sign the bill, Davis greased the
process for legislation that fails to meet demands he listed a year ago when he
vetoed a similar bill.

Lying for a license

Here's the hole in the process: The bill still would enable individuals -- not
just immigrants -- to get a license or multiple licenses by lying about who they
are.

Barring last minute delays, the bill may go before the Assembly on Thursday,
then return to the Senate. Unless senators have second thoughts, a bad bill with
good intentions will become law.

California should become the third state, after Utah and New Mexico, to let
undocumented immigrants drive legally, but must do so in a way that eliminates
security risks.

A revised version of SB 60 is supposed to eliminate that problem byrequiring the
Department of Motor Vehicles to purchase digital ID technology for $50 million
to $65 million, which higher license and motor vehicle fees would pay for.

Anyone seeking a new driver's license or renewing a permit in person would
submit a fingerprint, which would be scanned for duplicates. The current system,
which requires a thumbprint, can't do systemwide matches.

New technology is overdue. The problem is that it'll take five to 10 years for
Californians renewing their licenses to be entered into the database. That's a
big window for abuse.

Under current law, an applicant must submit a Social Security number, which is
issued only to citizens. To accommodate immigrants, Sen. Gil Cedillo's bill
would permit the substitution of a individual taxpayer ID number, issued by the
federal Internal Revenue Service. However, Motor Vehicles cannot verify tax ID
numbers, because the IRS doesn't share the information.

Here's how easy it would be to commit fraud: A person would submit a false name
-- maybe your name -- and a fake taxpayer ID number, along with a fingerprint.
Only a person with a print already in the system would attract notice. Once
issued, the license would be widely accepted as reliable identification.

Cedillo's bill theoretically would make forgeries harder by requiring more
documentation, including a birth certificate and a passport or consular ID. But
a licensing system is only as effective as its weakest link, and some of these
documents can easily be forged.

Davis bailed out

Last year's bill had stronger protections: a criminal background check and a
prerequisite that an immigrant seek residency. This year, Davis should have
started discussions with those requirements. Instead of driving negotiations, he
bailed out on them.

Driver's licenses have become domestic passports; the system must be
tamper-proof. The Legislature is poised to pass a bill that doesn't meet that
standard.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 12, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP ASSAILS DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL;
CALIFORNIA LAWMAKERS TELL ASHCROFT THAT LICENSING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IS A
SECURITY RISK

BYLINE: MICHELLE GUIDO, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 399 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Republicans in the state Legislature sent a strongly worded letter to U.S.
Attorney General John Ashcroft this week, saying California's new law allowing
illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses is a national "security danger."

In a letter written by Assemblyman Russ Bogh, R-Yucaipa, and signed by 37 other
Republican lawmakers, the group pleads with Ashcroft to "invalidate the
California driver's license as a reliable and acceptable form of identification
and documentation -- particularly at our nation's airports -- until we can
repeal" the law signed by Gov. Gray Davis last week.

"This isn't about immigrants, this isn't about undocumented immigrants, this is
about a bill that has essentially stripped any security features of a government
document most people use to get on airplanes," Bogh said. "And this bill was
passed for a purely political reason -- to save the failing political campaign
of Gov. Gray Davis -- and that's wrong."

Asa Hutchinson, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's undersecretary for
border and transportation security, told the Mercury News earlier this week that
the law places a greater burden on border inspectors.

Border inspectors often depend on driver's licenses to establish U.S.
citizenship.

SB 60, by state Sen. Gilbert Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, goes into effect Jan. 1 and
allows illegal immigrants to apply for a license using a taxpayer ID number.
Under the old law, a Social Security number -- which is only available to
citizens and legal residents -- was required.

Cedillo said Thursday that the letter was a political ploy. Until 1994, he said,
it wasn't necessary to show proof of legal residency to get a driver's license
in California.

"It's sad and unfortunate that people are playing politics with legislation
designed to increase highway safety and lower insurance premiums," he said. "For
65 years, this was the law. Ten years ago, we tried to use the DMV to engage in
the affairs of immigration, and that failed. We should recognize that and accept
that."

The California Republican Congressional delegation sent a letter to Davis
earlier this week, calling the passage of SB 60 "highly irresponsible
anddangerous." The letter was signed by 20 members of Congress.

And Monday, the California Republican Assembly launched an effort to gather
enough signatures for a ballot referendum to overturn the law.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Jim Puzzanghera contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 31, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO TARGETS HUMAN CARGO;
CRACKDOWN FOCUSES ON SMUGGLING BANDS

BYLINE: SUSANA HAYWARD, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Two weeks after the deaths of 19 migrants in Texas, Mexican President Vicente
Fox has launched a major offensive against cross-border human smuggling rings,
officials reported.

A strike force composed of more than 600 federal police officers, soldiers and
secret-service agents seized operatives of at least six smuggling bands in the
first few hours after the crackdown began late Thursday, the officials said.

The arrests were mainly in Sonora state on the southern border of Arizona, and
in Quintana Roo state on the Yucatan Peninsula's coast.

Interior Minister Santiago Creel said the crackdown followed several months of
investigation of smuggling operations that he regarded as "organized crime."

Some captured smugglers, he said, had links to criminal organizations in Chiapas
state, bordering Guatemala, through which many illegal immigrants from Central
America enter Mexico. Other smuggler networks, Creel said, delivered illegal
immigrants to Mexico and the United States from as far away as Asia and Eastern
Europe.

The raid came hours after Fox and U.S. Ambassador Tony Garza met Thursday. Fox
would not comment on their meeting, but Mexico has been pressing the Bush
administration to take up its concerns over migration, including problems of
illegal immigration.

Strike-force units arrested 27 top smugglers in Thursday's raids, some in action
and others on warrants issued, police said, in connection with deaths of 14
migrants in the Arizona desert in August 2002.

Among the arrested were brothers Jose Enrique and Gustavo MotaCienfuegos,
identified by the Mexico City daily El Universal as owners of a Sonora-based
transport company with a route between Sonora and Arizona.

Of the 19 migrants found asphyxiated in a truck May 14 in Victoria, Texas, 14
were Mexicans. Creel said 22 arrest warrants had been issued in connection with
the case, eight traffickers detained and 10 vehicles impounded.

Police said they captured Florinda Rojas Jimenez, alias "Dona Flor" or "La Tia,"
the alleged leader of a top organization in Queretaro state, central Mexico.
They said she also operated out of Colombia, El Salvador, Honduras and
Guatemala.

Also arrested were Brazilians David Sierra Luzagaray, alias "El Diablo," and his
son Felix Francisco Sierra Valenzuela, two leading smugglers of Brazilians,
police said.

During Thursday's sweeps of hotels, businesses, homes and along rural roads in
Sonora and Quintana Roo, 581 undocumented workers, including six children, were
found among the smugglers, Creel said.

News reports said agents flew in to their targets from Monterrey and Nuevo
Laredo, in Nuevo Leon state; Culiacan, in Sinaloa; and Mexicali, in Baja
California.

"The criminals take advantage of the desert harshness of the border zone between
Sonora and Arizona, through which it's estimated that a thousand migrants pass
each day," Creel said. "So far this year, 130 of them have died."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Knight Ridder correspondent Janet Schwartz contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 23, 2003 Thursday

Sweep nets alleged illegal immigrants working at Super Bowl

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO (AP)


At least six of 80 foreign-born security guards and drivers working Sunday's
Super Bowl were arrested for allegedly living in the United States illegally, it
was reported today.

The sweep by Immigration and Naturalization Service officers called ''Operation
Game Day'' was conducted as part of a security checkup in connection with the
Super Bowl. Immigration officers told The San Diego Union-Tribune that about
half of the roughly 80 people singled out in the sweep have been detained, but
more arrests are expected.

Some of those arrested are suspected of being in the United States illegally,
while others have green cards but are slated for deportation because they have
criminal convictions.

The agency hasn't linked any of the workers to terrorism.

Four of those arrested have been charged in federal court. Efran Alvarez Jacobo
and Aaron Fernando Reyes Ortiz, both security guards, and Fernando Aguilar, a
cab driver, pleaded innocent to immigration violations. Eduardo Fuentes Perez
also is being prosecuted, but court records didn't not indicate his profession.

Most of the security guards arrested are from Latin American countries, while
many of the transportation workers are from 25 countries suspected of having
terrorist cells, immigration officials said.

The INS targeted the workers because they might have access to the special
events leading up to the Super Bowl or to secure areas around Qualcomm Stadium.

Those who were are being detained but aren't being prosecuted in federal court
are expected to be deported. If they fight expulsion, they will go through
administrative court proceedings and be considered for release on bail.

John Mansfield, the lawyer for a Nigerian-born British citizen who was picked up
in the sweep, filed a lawsuit in federal court Wednesday, alleging that Anthony
Ajayi's rights were violated when he was picked up at the private security
company where he had been working with a false social security number.

Ajayi, who is the spouse of a U.S. citizen, was in the process of obtaining
permanent residency and had a legal work permit that he was planning to use once
he switched jobs. His lawyer is challenging the INS's plans to deport him
without an immigration court hearing.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 25, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

U.S., Mexican bishops urge deal on migrants

BYLINE: By Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a rare joint statement, U.S. and Mexican Catholic bishops Friday called on
President Bush to resume negotiations to reach a sweeping immigration agreement
with Mexico.

The religious leaders, who represent some 150 million members of the faith in
the two countries, also urged Roman Catholics in the United States to welcome
undocumented immigrants in their parishes and to lobby Congress and the White
House to grant them amnesty.

The negotiations had held out the prospect of a grand bargain to address the
complex human and legal issues raised by generations of undocumented migrants
from Mexico. But the talks were sidetracked after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

''This country lives from the sweat of the undocumented, and we should provide
them remedies that allow them to become part of this country,'' Thomas G.
Wenski, auxiliary bishop of Miami, said in Spanish during a bilingual news
conference.

The 50-page statement, delivered to the White House earlier in the week, marked
the first time prelates from the United States and Mexico had issued a joint
pastoral letter. Before the Sept. 11 attacks, Bush and President Vicente Fox of
Mexico were exploring an accord that would have encompassed some form of
amnesty, a temporary worker program and stricter border enforcement on the
Mexican side.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 29, 2003 Wednesday F1 EDITION

Additional charges filed in immigrant fraud case

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 365 words


New criminal charges were filed Tuesday against a San Jose couple who allegedly
posed as lawyers while running immigration consulting offices, cheating perhaps
hundreds of undocumented immigrants out of tens of thousands of dollars.

Eighteen new counts of grand theft were filed in Santa Clara County Superior
Court against Noel Ramayrat, 51, and four new counts were filed against Mercedes
Alcantara, 45, both of San Jose. They are being held in lieu of $2 million bail.
A bail hearing that was scheduled for Tuesday was postponed to Feb. 14.

The new charges mean the number of victims has doubled from 18 to 36, said
Deputy District Attorney Dale B. Lohman, and signal the scope of the scheme she
has described as ''massive immigration fraud.''

Early last month, Ramayrat and Alcantara were arrested and charged with grand
theft, payroll tax evasion and conspiracy to commit illegal immigration
consulting. Investigators said the couple billed themselves as immigration
attorneys who could help undocumented immigrants with green card applications
and labor certifications.

The couple charged some victims up to $6,000, although most of the victims were
applying for benefits from the Immigration and Naturalization Service that they
were not qualified to receive, investigators said.

The victims, mainly Filipinos and Latinos, were led to believe that they could
apply for U.S. citizenship or high-paying jobs with legal U.S. visas,
investigators said.

Ramayrat, through his lawyer Kenneth W. Robinson of San Jose, has denied the
charges.

''He didn't steal money from anybody,'' Robinson said. ''He was providing a
service. He did his part, and now it's up to the state and federal government to
do its part.''

Robinson said the applications that Ramayrat filed for his clients are still
pending.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office is looking for people who may
have been defrauded by Ramayrat and Alcantara. Anyone with information is asked
to call investigator Gary Medlin at (408) 792-2917. Authorities said they will
not refer anyone to the INS.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury .com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 8, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Additional charges are filed;
SAN JOSE COUPLE ACCUSED OF CHEATING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 297 words


Additional criminal charges were filed Friday in Santa Clara County Superior
Court against a San Jose couple accused of bilking tens of thousands of dollars
from scores of undocumented immigrants who sought their help for immigration
cases.

The filing of new charges of grand theft widens the case against Noel Ramayrat,
51, and Mercedes Alcantara, 45, both of San Jose, who were first charged in
early January of with 33 criminal counts that included payroll tax evasion and
conspiracy to commit illegal immigration consulting.

Friday's filings increase felony charges against Ramayrat to 62 counts, against
Alcantara to 27 counts.

''It's truly a case of finding safety in numbers. The first group of people to
come forward prompted others to come,'' said Deputy District Attorney Dale B.
Lohman.

There are now at least 44 victims, up from 18 when the case was first filed,
Lohman said.

Investigators are continuing to seek victims of a scheme that they've described
as ''massive immigration fraud.''

The couple operated the Labor and Immigration Consulting Group (LICG) and
EmpBase.

Many of the victims of the alleged fraud are undocumented Filipino and Latino
immigrants who were allegedly promised high-paying jobs with legal U.S. visas.
Others were told to apply for immigration benefits -- legal visas, permanent
residency or citizenship -- that they were not qualified to receive.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's office is looking for people who may
have been defrauded by Ramayrat and Alcantara. Call investigator Gary Medlin at
(408) 792-2917. Authorities said victims who come forward will not be reported
to the new Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 8, 2003 Saturday F1 EDITION

Pair faces more counts of bilking immigrants

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 273 words


Additional criminal charges were filed Friday in Santa Clara County Superior
Court against a San Jose couple accused of bilking tens of thousands of dollars
from scores of undocumented immigrants who sought their help for immigration
cases.

The filing of new charges of grand theft widens the case against Noel Ramayrat,
51, and Mercedes Alcantara, 45, both of San Jose, who were first charged in
early January of with 33 criminal counts that included payroll tax evasion and
conspiracy to commit illegal immigration consulting.

Friday's filings increase felony charges against Ramayrat to 62 counts, against
Alcantara to 27 counts.

''It's truly a case of finding safety in numbers. The first group of people to
come forward prompted others to come,'' said Deputy District Attorney Dale B.
Lohman.

There are now at least 44 victims, up from 18 when the case was first filed,
Lohman said.

Investigators are continuing to seek victims of a scheme that they've described
as ''massive immigration fraud.''

The couple operated the Labor and Immigration Consulting Group (LICG) and
EmpBase.

Many of the victims of the alleged fraud are undocumented Filipino and Latino
immigrants who were allegedly promised high-paying jobs with legal U.S. visas.
Others were told to apply for immigration benefits -- legal visas, permanent
residency or citizenship -- that they were not qualified to receive.

At a Feb. 21 hearing, the couple's bail was reduced from $2 million to $1
million each. Neither has posted the bond and both remain in jail awaiting a
preliminary hearing.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 8, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAIR FACES MORE COUNTS OF BILKING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 265 words


Additional criminal charges were filed Friday in Santa Clara County Superior
Court against a San Jose couple accused of bilking tens of thousands of dollars
from scores of undocumented immigrants who sought their help for immigration
cases.

The filing of new charges of grand theft widens the case against Noel Ramayrat,
51, and Mercedes Alcantara, 45, both of San Jose, who were first charged in
early January of with 33 criminal counts that included payroll tax evasion and
conspiracy to commit illegal immigration consulting.

Friday's filings increase felony charges against Ramayrat to 62 counts, against
Alcantara to 27 counts.

"It's truly a case of finding safety in numbers. The first group of people to
come forward prompted others to come," said Deputy District Attorney Dale B.
Lohman.

There are now at least 44 victims, up from 18 when the case was first filed,
Lohman said.

Investigators are continuing to seek victims of a scheme that they've described
as "massive immigration fraud."

The couple operated the Labor and Immigration Consulting Group (LICG) and
EmpBase.

Many of the victims of the alleged fraud are undocumented Filipino and Latino
immigrants who were allegedly promised high-paying jobs with legal U.S. visas.
Others were told to apply for immigration benefits -- legal visas, permanent
residency or citizenship -- that they were not qualified to receive.

At a Feb. 21 hearing, the couple's bail was reduced from $2 million to $1
million each. Neither has posted the bond and both remain in jail awaiting a
preliminary hearing.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 8, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAIR FACES MORE COUNTS OF BILKING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 265 words


Additional criminal charges were filed Friday in Santa Clara County Superior
Court against a San Jose couple accused of bilking tens of thousands of dollars
from scores of undocumented immigrants who sought their help for immigration
cases.

The filing of new charges of grand theft widens the case against Noel Ramayrat,
51, and Mercedes Alcantara, 45, both of San Jose, who were first charged in
early January of with 33 criminal counts that included payroll tax evasion and
conspiracy to commit illegal immigration consulting.

Friday's filings increase felony charges against Ramayrat to 62 counts, against
Alcantara to 27 counts.

"It's truly a case of finding safety in numbers. The first group of people to
come forward prompted others to come," said Deputy District Attorney Dale B.
Lohman.

There are now at least 44 victims, up from 18 when the case was first filed,
Lohman said.

Investigators are continuing to seek victims of a scheme that they've described
as "massive immigration fraud."

The couple operated the Labor and Immigration Consulting Group (LICG) and
EmpBase.

Many of the victims of the alleged fraud are undocumented Filipino and Latino
immigrants who were allegedly promised high-paying jobs with legal U.S. visas.
Others were told to apply for immigration benefits -- legal visas, permanent
residency or citizenship -- that they were not qualified to receive.

At a Feb. 21 hearing, the couple's bail was reduced from $2 million to $1
million each. Neither has posted the bond and both remain in jail awaiting a
preliminary hearing.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 8, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAIR FACES MORE COUNTS OF BILKING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 265 words


Additional criminal charges were filed Friday in Santa Clara County Superior
Court against a San Jose couple accused of bilking tens of thousands of dollars
from scores of undocumented immigrants who sought their help for immigration
cases.

The filing of new charges of grand theft widens the case against Noel Ramayrat,
51, and Mercedes Alcantara, 45, both of San Jose, who were first charged in
early January of with 33 criminal counts that included payroll tax evasion and
conspiracy to commit illegal immigration consulting.

Friday's filings increase felony charges against Ramayrat to 62 counts, against
Alcantara to 27 counts.

"It's truly a case of finding safety in numbers. The first group of people to
come forward prompted others to come," said Deputy District Attorney Dale B.
Lohman.

There are now at least 44 victims, up from 18 when the case was first filed,
Lohman said.

Investigators are continuing to seek victims of a scheme that they've described
as "massive immigration fraud."

The couple operated the Labor and Immigration Consulting Group (LICG) and
EmpBase.

Many of the victims of the alleged fraud are undocumented Filipino and Latino
immigrants who were allegedly promised high-paying jobs with legal U.S. visas.
Others were told to apply for immigration benefits -- legal visas, permanent
residency or citizenship -- that they were not qualified to receive.

At a Feb. 21 hearing, the couple's bail was reduced from $2 million to $1
million each. Neither has posted the bond and both remain in jail awaiting a
preliminary hearing.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 2, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TYSON JUST THE BEGINNING?;
CASES INVOLVING IMMIGRATION LAWS LIKELY TO GROW

BYLINE: BILL POOVEY, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 637 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, Tenn.


Tyson Foods' acquittal on charges of conspiring to hire illegal immigrants dealt
a setback to the government's strategy of enforcing immigration laws by going
after big business.

But that doesn't mean major employers of unskilled workers should rest easy.

With more than 7 million illegal immigrants in the United States -- most lured
here by job opportunities -- the temptation for abuse still exists and
immigration law experts predict more such prosecutions in the future.

"Is there going to be another target? Absolutely," said Matthew Yarbrough, a
Dallas attorney who last year successfully defended a Tyson personnel employee
in a similar case.

Same obstacle

Experts say any other case will face the same obstacle the Tyson prosecutors
faced -- the vast gray area in the law that requires companies to make a
"good-faith effort" to determine if the workers they've hired are legal.

Tyson attorneys argued successfully that if the company hired illegal workers,
it was because of the huge underground market for phony immigration papers and
the government's flawed system of screening immigrants.

Company attorneys showed jurors copies of Justice Department Civil Rights
Division brochures, including one titled "Look at the Facts, Not at the Faces,"
with warnings about discrimination based on appearance. The brochures advise
employers to accept worker documents "as long as they appear to be reasonably
genuine."

Tyson attorney Tom Green told jurors that the company could be hiring a "refugee
from the North Pole or the man from Mars" if the worker has genuine-looking
documentation.

"This is the dilemma. Did they make the good-faith effort or not?" said Bill
Strassberger, spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

"The problem is, in general terms, there are some employers who will make a
good-faith effort with a wink and nod so they can hire necessary workers to
staff up whatever their business is."

Prosecutors in the Tyson case relied mostly on tapes of secretly recorded
conversations between undercover agents who posed as smugglers and transporters
of immigrants and former managers at Tyson poultry plants.

Agents testified that they delivered 136 illegal immigrants from Mexico and
Central America for Tyson employment. Other testimony said the company tried to
shield itself by using temporary employment agencies to find workers, mostly
illegal immigrants.

Prosecutors charged that top executives at Tyson's Springdale, Ark.,
headquarters also knew about illegal hiring, but jurors who deliberated for
seven hours were not convinced.

'Gray area'

One juror, 46-year-old church secretary Barbara Hailey, said the evidence showed
there is "too much gray area" for employers to determine who is legal. She said
there should be "stricter guidelines" than requiring two identifying documents
that look genuine.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John MacCoon, the lead prosecutor in the Tyson case,
offered a note of caution to other employers: If they are trying to hide behind
the good-faith element to knowingly hire illegal workers "they are abandoning
the good-faith element."

Chattanooga attorney Robert Divine, who represented a prosecution
witness,Tyson's former ethics compliance office, predicted the government won't
back down on further prosecutions.

"I don't think other companies who employ large numbers of unskilled workers in
unpleasant jobs can relax now and sit back and check documents and fill out . .
. forms and feel like, 'We'll be OK,' " Divine said. "It may very well be there
are other investigations ongoing right now."

U.S. Attorney Harry "Sandy" Mattice Jr. said afterward that he had to "confess
to frustration" about the verdict.

"We are consoled by the fact that we believe we did the right thing," Mattice
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
Tyson Foods was acquitted last week of charges it conspired to hire illegal
immigrants. John H. Tyson is its chairman and chief executive.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 12, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROSECUTORS ADD CHARGES OF GRAND THEFT AGAINST COUPLE IN IMMIGRATION FRAUD CASE

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE


More criminal charges were filed Friday in Santa Clara County Superior Court
against a San Jose couple at the center of an ever-widening immigration fraud
case in which scores of undocumented immigrants were allegedly victimized.

Noel Ramayrat, 51, and Mercedes Alcantara, 45, both of San Jose, face new
charges of grand theft. They are accused of bilking tens of thousands of dollars
from undocumented Filipino and Latino immigrants.

Many of the victims were promised high-paying jobs with legal U.S. visas; others
were advised to apply for immigration benefits -- work visas, green cards,
political asylum -- that they were not qualified to receive.

With Friday's charges, Ramayrat now faces 70 felony counts, up from 62 counts
last month. Alcantara now faces 36 counts, up from 27.

"It's an indication of how rampant and how serious this problem is and how badly
we need to address it," said Deputy District Attorney Dale B. Lohman.

The couple remain in the county jail, awaiting a preliminary hearing.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Valley Roundup

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 14, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

KIDNAP SUSPECT FELL THROUGH THE CRACKS;
COPS SELDOM CHECK IMMIGRATION STATUS

BYLINE: MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 939 words


When San Jose police arrested Enrique Sosa Alvarez three years ago for suspicion
of auto theft, they didn't know that he was an illegal immigrant. And they
apparently never did much to find out.

Last month, Alvarez, 23, allegedly kidnapped a San Jose fourth-grader and
molested her repeatedly. Now his case is calling into question how law
enforcement agencies handle illegal immigrants -- and whether they should or
could do more to help deport those they come across.

Like many Bay Area law enforcement agencies, San Jose police make it a practice
not to inquire about or report the immigration status of suspects for fear of
preventing undocumented immigrants from reporting crimes or helping with
investigations. But even those agencies that do check can find it difficult to
determine, on a moment's notice, whether someone is undocumented.

"There's a chance he probably wasn't asked by us," Deputy Police Chief David
Delgado said of Alvarez, who was never charged in the 2000 case. "Would we have
automatically caught it here? The answer would be no. Not for an investigation
in that type of case."

Uncovering Alvarez's status at the time of his first arrest could have been
particularly difficult, police say, because he was using a different name and
because he was probably released for insufficient evidence.

Across the Bay Area and the nation, law enforcement agencies deal with the issue
in a number of ways.

In San Mateo County, sheriff's deputies will not ask about a suspect's status.
But Redwood City police will report those they believe are living inthe United
States illegally. In Alameda County, sheriff's deputies will contact federal
immigration officials about anyone suspected of immigration violations. But
Fremont and Oakland police won't inquire about such details.

"Like it or not, police officers and prosecutors have discretion," said James
Edwards, who has researched the issue for the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington, D.C., think tank that seeks tighter restrictions on immigration.
"They're going to use their judgment on a case by case basis. Is that right or
wrong? I think that's a judgment call."

Many Bay Area police departments say they rely on immigrants -- including those
here illegally -- to report crimes, provide tips or act as witnesses in solving
crimes. They fear immigrants would not do so if they faced possible deportation.

The Alvarez case illustrates that delicate balance.

San Jose police worry that Alvarez -- who was charged with nine felony counts,
including rape with special allegations of kidnapping and tying and binding the
9-year-old girl -- may have more victims. But his acquaintances, who may also be
undocumented, may be afraid to come forward, said Rob Davis, the department's
deputy chief of investigations.

"If we were to question everyone's status, it would literally hurt our ability
to solve crimes," he said.

Civil rights activists say randomly asking some suspects about their immigration
status would inevitably result in profiling, based on English-language skills,
accent, religion, race or appearance.

Lack of resources, time and basic knowledge about the workings of immigration
law also complicates matters. And many agencies believe local police don't have
the authority or the training to enforce immigration laws.

Fremont police say they don't have the staff to sort through the complex federal
immigration regulations, particularly as officers are being laid off to help
curb the city's budget crisis.

It's barely "all we can do to keep our officers on the streets available to
respond to emergency calls for service," said detective Bill Veteran, the
department's spokesman. "That's the core responsibility for a municipal police
department."

Federal immigration officials regularly check the logs at several local jails.
But for police, determining someone's immigration status can be tricky.

Officers making an arrest can place a phone call to the Law Enforcement Support
Center, an agency run by the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, to
determine a suspect's immigration status, said Nina Pruneda, a spokeswoman for
the bureau. But none of the 11 Bay Area agencies contacted by the Mercury News
have ever heard of the center.

Pruneda said the center logged 600,000 calls last year from law enforcement
agencies, but it's uncertain how long it takes to receive the information.
Pruneda said officers can have the information within 20 minutes. Immigration
control proponents say it can take hours.

California law once required all police departments to "attempt to verify" the
immigration status of those they arrested. But a federal court in 1995
invalidated the law. State Attorney General Bill Lockyer issued a ruling in 2001
saying the court decision gave local police departments the discretion to decide
whether or not to inquire about a suspect's immigration status.

There remains much debate about what role police should play in immigration law
beyond determining the status of those they arrest.

U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft, for one, wants local police to act as
deputized agents of the federal government, enforcing immigration laws as they
go after burglars and car thieves. A bill introduced in Congress last week would
authorize local police to do just that.

"There's a real range of actions and policies," said Angela Kelley, deputy
director for the National Immigration Forum, a Washington, D.C.-based immigrant
rights group. "Our immigration laws are enormously complicated and difficult to
face even by people who are trained to enforce them."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News staff writer Roxanne Stites and librarian Marcia Gordon
contributed to this report.
POLICIES VARY
Bay Area law enforcement agencies have varying policies regarding a suspect's
immigration status. "Like it or not, police officers and prosecutors have
discretion," says James Edwards, researcher and author. A look at the ways a
handful of area police forces handle the situation:
WON'T ASK
San Mateo County
sheriff's deputies
Fremont police officers
Oakland police officers
WILL ASK . . . AND REPORT
Redwood City police officers
Alameda County sheriff's deputies

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Alvarez
He was charged with kidnapping and molesting girl, 9, in San Jose.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 27, 2002 Sunday

Suspect had run-in with INS;
MUHAMMAD WAS DETAINED IN MAIMI LAST YEAR; NO CHARGES WERE FILED

BYLINE: Alfonso Chardy, Marika Lynch and Larry Lebowitz Mercury News Washington
Bureau

LENGTH: 438 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


John Allen Muhammad, the U.S. Army veteran charged with murder in the
Washington, D.C.-area sniper slayings, was detained for hours at Miami
International Airport in April 2001 because immigration inspectors suspected he
was trying to smuggle two undocumented Jamaican women into the country, a U.S.
government official said Saturday.

Muhammad was fleeing authorities in Antigua, where police suspected he might be
involved in immigrant-smuggling and making fraudulent documents.

Inspectors on April 14, 2001, stopped Muhammad, who they thought was using false
documents and trying to help his traveling companions -- two Jamaican women --
enter the country with fake documents.

Muhammad and the women were detained while U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service investigators checked their stories. INS officials eventually concluded
that Muhammad was a U.S. citizen. He was cleared to enter the country; the women
were deported.

"We were satisfied at the time of Muhammad's return to the country in April 2001
that he was a U.S. citizen," said John Shewairy, the INS chief of staff in the
Miami district office. "Subsequently, INS investigators in Louisiana have seen a
birth certificate for him, and all indications are that he is a U.S. citizen."

Muhammad was born John Allen Williams in Louisiana 41 years ago.

Though Muhammad was allowed to leave, the U.S. official said, INS investigators
wanted to pursue a case of alien-smuggling or document fraud against him and
referred the issue to the U.S. attorney's office. However, no charges were filed
because immigration officials and prosecutors concluded that there was not
enough evidence, the official said.

Jacqueline Becerra, a representative of Miami U.S. Attorney Marcos Daniel
Jimenez, said her office has no record of a referral on the case.

Muhammad's brief stop in Miami last year came as he made his way back from
Antigua, where he had apparently met John Lee Malvo, the 17-year-old Jamaican
also charged in the sniper attacks. Malvo followed Muhammad into the United
States about two months after the Miami incident, arriving with his mother
aboard a cargo ship that carried several undocumented immigrants. An immigration
agency report filed months later suggested that Malvo and his mother stepped
ashore somewhere south of Miami, apparently undetected by immigration
authorities.

Eventually, Malvo made his way to Bellingham, Wash., where he resumed his
friendship with Muhammad. Muhammad, a former combat engineer in the Persian Gulf
War, had once been stationed at Fort Lewis in nearby Tacoma and was familiar
with the area.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                          September 12, 2002 Thursday

Driver's license debate lands on Davis' desk;
Measure would allow undocumented immigrants to obtain the coveted I.D. card

BYLINE: By William Booth, Washington Post

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Ramon Hernandez waited for his bus and contemplated the question. "A driver's
license," said the janitor from Mexico, "makes everything better."

He covets one even though he doesn't own a car or drive. But Hernandez shrugs.
Like millions of his countrymen, he's in the country illegally.

For the past several years, advocates have been waging a campaign in state
legislatures to allow undocumented immigrants to obtain driver's licenses -- the
ubiquitous piece of plastic infinitely useful for life's transactions. Any
progress ended on Sept. 11, 2001.

Now the California Legislature has sent to Gov. Gray Davis a hotly debated
measure that would make it easier for as many as 1 million undocumented
immigrants to get a state driver's license.

Proponents say that making a driver's license available to undocumented
immigrants simply acknowledges reality -- that there are millions of such people
living and working in America -- while making the roads safer by ensuring more
drivers are properly licensed, tested and insured.

"It's good public policy," said state assembly member Gil Cedillo, a Democrat
from Los Angeles who sponsored the legislation. "When you're involved in an auto
accident, nobody is going to ask for your immigration status. They want to see
your driver's license and insurance."

The governor's under pressure not to sign the bill. Initially, Davis threatened
a veto, but Cedillo and fellow Democratic state Sen. Richard Polanco added
provisions to require that undocumented immigrants who seek licenses to undergo
criminal background checks and fingerprinting.

Also, the pending law requires applicants to have lived in the United States for
15 months of the past three years, and they must show that they've sent
paperwork to the Immigration and Naturalization Service applying for legal
residency.

Critics say the measure rewards people who entered the United States illegally
or have overstayed their visas.

"They broke the law to come here, and so they are not entitled to drive," said
Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which advocates tougher controls against illegal entry and work in the United
States. "This represents a massive security breach," he added.

Issuance of driver's licenses is a matter left to the states, though many
require applicants to have a Social Security number, which means they're either
citizens or possess work papers. There is, however, a thriving industry churning
out bogus Social Security cards and numbers.

Congress has taken an interest after it was discovered that at least four of the
19 hijackers on Sept. 11 held Virginia driver's licenses, which eased their
travel around the United States. There are proposals to set federal standards
for the kinds of documents and background checks required for a license.

The California measure is indeed moving against a tide of tighter restrictions.

Following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, 21 states made it harder to get
licenses, and such legislation has been introduced in another 22 states,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

The laws are designed to enable states to check the backgrounds of applicants
more thoroughly, and to make it harder to counterfeit.

Michele Waslin of the National Council of La Raza in Washington, a Hispanic
advocacy group, said a driver's license "is one of the biggest issues in the
Latino immigrant community. This is really very important to people."

Just as discussion of offering amnesty to undocumented workers came to an abrupt
halt, the ground has shifted on the license debate.

Waslin said 61 bills were introduced in state legislatures in the last year that
dealt with immigrants and licenses, and 46 of those attempted to restrict
privileges. Only seven measures passed, she said, though many states tightened
requirements by executive order or regulation.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              26 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           October 16, 2002 Wednesday

Rail car was probably site of slow death for 11 illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Mike Wilson, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 443 words


DES MOINES, Iowa -- Eleven suspected illegal immigrants whose badly decomposed
bodies were found in a locked railroad car probably died slowly and painfully
from severe overheating or asphyxiation, authorities said Tuesday.

The victims apparently boarded the grain hopper in Mexico four months ago and
may have been smuggled into the country, said Jerry Heinauer, district director
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service for Nebraska and Iowa.

Their nationalities were unknown and authorities said they did not know if the
victims were men, women or children.

The car had been latched from the outside and there was no evidence of food or
water inside, Sheriff Tom Hogan said. He said it was difficult to count the
huddled bodies; authorities said there were as many as 11.

Authorities removed the bodies Tuesday, one day after they were discovered near
Denison, 60 miles northeast of Omaha, Neb. The rail car was sealed and moved to
Des Moines for examination by investigators.

The medical examiner will try to determine causes of death, and authorities will
then begin trying to identify the remains.

Corinne Stern, the chief medical examiner in El Paso County, Texas, said the
victims may have become delirious and suffered hallucinations, severe cramping,
headaches and vomiting before succumbing to the heat or a lack of oxygen.

"They were probably subjected to temperatures equivalent to those inside a
locked car during the heat of summer," said Stern, who is not involved in the
investigation.

Heinauer said authorities did not yet know if the victims were being smuggled,
but he said the case fits the pattern of some smuggling operations.

He said he was told by Mexican officials that the rail car left Matamoros,
Mexico, in June. It had been parked long-term in Oklahoma since then, before
being brought to Denison.

Julio Salinas, a supervisory agent with the U.S. Border Patrol at McAllen,
Texas, said it is not unusual for immigrants to cross the border in rail cars.
He said trains are often checked by Border Patrol and customs agents as they
pass through cities.

"Most recently, a couple of months ago, we found 26 that had been inside a
hopper car a couple of hours and some of them were dehydrated," Salinas said.
"There were no fatalities. We do come across situations like that."

He said immigrants take life-threatening risks when they climb into a grain car
on a smuggler's promise of freedom.

"There are some boxcars or grain hoppers that can only be opened from the
outside," Salinas said. "Once they shut the door they leave their life in the
hands of a smuggler."

INS: www.ins.usdoj.gov

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              27 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           October 23, 2002 Wednesday

Mexico is against U.S. farm subsidies;
President Fox readies agenda to

BYLINE: By Niko Price, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 691 words


CABO SAN LUCAS, Mexico -- President Vicente Fox criticized American farm
subsidies Tuesday, saying he will approach President Bush this weekend about
making terms of free-trade agreements less painful for Mexican farmers.

In an interview with the Associated Press on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation summit, Fox called for more American attention to Mexico's
affairs and vowed to push Bush on an immigration agreement that was thwarted by
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The two presidents meet Saturday.

"I want to talk to President Bush about the subsidies that the American
government has decided to give, and how to prevent them from affecting Mexican
communities and producers," he said. "Otherwise, what you'll have is more
migration."

Hundreds of thousands of Mexicans head north to look for work in the United
States each year, and hundreds die annually making the trip. Last week, the
badly decayed bodies of 11 suspected illegal immigrants were found trapped in a
boxcar at a grain elevator in Denison, Iowa. The train left the border city of
Matamoros, Mexico, in June.

Fox noted that Mexico and the United States had been "really, really close" to a
migration accord just before Sept. 11, and that Mexico needs an agreement to
help replace illegal immigration with government-sponsored work visas to the
United States.

Since the terrorist attacks, Mexico has often complained of being ignored by
Bush, who made the first foreign trip of his presidency to Fox's ranch and who
initially placed tremendous importance on relations between the two countries.

Over the last year, Fox has found himself competing for Bush's attention,
although both leaders insist they remain close allies.

Fox said the U.S. agriculture subsidies will hurt Mexican farmers and must be
phased out under the North American Free Trade Agreement, which covers Mexico,
the United States and Canada.

Bush administration policies that give money and preferential treatment to the
big players in the American farming industry don't play well abroad, where
cheaper, more dominant U.S. goods can undersell local products and drive smaller
farmers out of work.

The attention to the subsidies -- which Fox had not made a central issue before
-- could signal a chilling of the Mexican president's normally effusive
relationship with Washington.

Fox was scheduled to visit Bush's Texas ranch in August, but canceled when the
state executed a Mexican man despite Fox's objections. Fox, citing a lack of
time, said he wouldn't bring up the execution in his meeting with Bush.

He made clear that his top priority would be the migration accord.

I want to propose to [Bush] that during 2003 we take this theme up again with
great commitment so we have a result in 2003, Fox said. I hope we can get the
attention of the U.S. government to Mexico's affairs, to Latin America's
affairs.

Fox said given the experience with the United States, Mexico was proceeding
cautiously in negotiations on a free-trade agreement with Japan. Fox and
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi are expected to launch talks between
their countries on such an agreement at a meeting Sunday evening.

Mexico has acquired great experience in terms of free-trade agreements. We know
what works and what doesn't better than anyone -- even better than Japan, Fox
said. So we're going to be very careful with what is included.

Since ousting Mexico's long-ruling party in 2000, Fox has tried to increase his
country's stature internationally.

He said Mexico's membership on the U.N. Security Council -- as well as its
hosting of the APEC meeting, a major U.N. conference earlier this year and the
World Trade Organization meeting in September 2003 -- are a part of that effort.

It's an important change in our foreign policy, that has to do with making our
presence and participation more dynamic everywhere that decisions are made, he
said.

APEC has to do with our decision to participate in that select group of
countries who decide humanity's path. It's much more valuable to be part of the
decisions than to be a passive spectator.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              28 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday

Border Patrol to scale back checkpoints;
Two state checkpoints will no longer operate round-the-clock

BYLINE: By Sandra Marquez, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Border crossing checkpoints in San Clemente and Temecula will no longer operate
around-the-clock if a proposal tied to funding for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is approved by Congress, officials said.

The change comes after new data compiled by the U.S. Border Patrol showed a 90
percent drop in apprehensions of illegal immigrants at the two sites since 1995.

The Border Patrol and local officials, including Rep. Darryl Issa, R-Vista,
hailed the change, claiming it will allow the 240 agents assigned to each area
to set up harder to detect "roving checkpoints" on back roads used by smugglers.

Others disagree, arguing the reduced presence on Interstate 5 just south of San
Clemente and Interstate 15 in Temecula could make it easier for terrorists to
infiltrate the country.

"We believe it is going to allow us more flexibility and allow us to operate
more efficiently," said Ben Bauman, a spokesman for the Border Patrol.

In 1995, 36,726 illegal immigrants were intercepted at the two roadside
checkpoints, Bauman said. By October of this year, 6,576 had been intercepted.

Bauman believes the decrease reveals a positive trend: "The more effective we
are, the tighter we make our border. The fewer people will get through."

Issa, a longtime opponent of the checkpoints, said more innovative approaches
are needed to respond to the threats of terrorists and smugglers who
increasingly rely on planes, boats and trains to circumvent the border area.

"The sophistication of the traffickers has improved," Issa said.

Issa predicts the checkpoints likely will continue to operate 50 percent of the
time if the new measure, tied to a pending INS appropriations bill, is approved
by Congress.

Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C.,
believes suburban concerns -- rather than terrorist threats -- are the real
motivation behind the proposed policy change.

"It's really driven by the desire of residents of border areas not to be
inconvenienced by law enforcement," he said.

By leaving the checkpoints unmanned, he said, the country is more vulnerable to
outside attacks.

"Any border that a dishwasher can sneak across, an al-Qaida terrorist can sneak
across," Krikorian said.

Previous congressional requirements that made funding for the checkpoints
contingent on their being staffed 24-hours a day, seven days a week, had
hampered apprehension efforts, Bauman said.

"The local management wasn't able to tactically deploy the agents the way they
wanted to," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              29 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 3, 2002 Tuesday

Immigration questions Colombian stowaways;
Seven men found during INS inspection of ship in S.F. Bay

BYLINE: By Kristin Bender, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 236 words


Seven Colombian stowaways are being questioned by the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service after they were discovered aboard a ship carrying sugar
to Crockett, officials said Monday.

The ship Jupiter is anchored south of the Bay Bridge between Alameda and San
Francisco while the INS searches it and the people aboard, said Sharon Rummery,
a spokeswoman for the agency's San Francisco Field Office.

The crew discovered the seven male stowaways last week, Rummery said. She did
not know how they were discovered, but said stowaways are sometimes found when
they run out of food or become ill.

She said the men, who range in age from 20 to 40, are in good condition.

The ship, with a crew of 20, was escorted from the Pacific Ocean into San
Francisco Bay at 4 a.m. Monday.

Rummery said the INS inspects all ships as they dock into local ports. If
stowaways are found, they are usually left in the care of the ship's captain,
who must keep them aboard and take them home if the ship is returning there.

The Coast Guard referred all questions to the INS.

It was not clear Monday where the ship would be returning, what would happen to
the men, or whether they were in trouble with the law.

"They might have committed a crime, but we don't know," Rummery said. "It would
be a crime if someone smuggled them in, but we don't know that yet."

More information is expected today, she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              30 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                          December 11, 2002 Wednesday

Mexican ailments a border burden;
 U.S. hospitals say illegal immigrants cost them big money

BYLINE: By Lynn Brezosky, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 730 words


BROWNSVILLE, Texas -- Ambulances regularly race across the bridges of the Rio
Grande, bringing some of Mexico's sickest to the nearest U.S. emergency room.

Obligated by federal law, the hospitals provide the care and worry later about
whether the billing addresses patients give them are accurate. Often the
addresses are false -- and the hospitals get stuck with the bill.

Immigrant patients have inflated medical expenses for insurance companies,
Medicaid and paying customers, officials say, and are overwhelming already busy
hospitals in one of the nation's fastest-growing regions.

One recent study by the U.S.-Mexico Border Counties Coalition, an American
lobbying group, found U.S. border hospitals provided at least $200 million a
year in uncompensated emergency care to illegal immigrants, $74 million of that
in Texas.

"Shh, don't tell Iowa farmers that part of their taxes are paying for trauma
that occurs south of the border," Dr. Lorenzo Pelly, a south Texas doctor, told
state lawmakers at a recent hearing.

Republican state Sen. Chris Harris said he was shocked by what he called the
"dumping" of Mexicans on U.S. hospitals.

Policymakers are just beginning to assess the size of the problem.

Brownsville Medical Center estimates losses averaging at least $500,000 per
month. At Thomason Hospital in El Paso, officials said their first attempt to
estimate the cost found $1 million over just three months.

Thomason Hospital responded by retaining a Mexican lawyer and requiring patients
to sign "pagares," or promissory notes, that carry weight under Mexican law. It
also signed on with a firm that specializes in collecting past due accounts in
Mexico.

Even without the influx from Mexico, U.S. border hospitals are straining to meet
the region's growing medical needs. Some have resorted to importing doctors and
offering nurses tuition grants and signing bonuses.

But the load really jumped as Mexicans looking for work stream to factories
along the border. The North American Free Trade Agreement has stimulated
business on both sides of the border, but hospitals have not kept up.

NAFTA "lacks the social economic infrastructure and capacity" to address the
growth, said Eva Moya of the Mexico Border Health Commission, made up of U.S.
and Mexican officials.

For the sick or injured on the Mexican side of the border, the choice in a
life-or-death situation can be a three-hour journey inland to Monterrey, Mexico,
or a minutes-long trip to Brownsville, Laredo or El Paso.

The issue drew attention in September, when 4-year-old Larissa Guajardo, a U.S.
citizen, died of heart problems after crossing the Hidalgo-Reynosa international
bridge on the way to a hospital. Family members blamed a delay caused by
immigration officials, who would not let the mother enter the country. The
mother lacked paperwork and had crossed the border illegally before.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said the inspection process took only
a few minutes and that inspectors did not know the girl's illness was critical.
Once the seriousness was discovered, the mother was allowed to enter on
humanitarian grounds, the INS said.

The Sept. 11 attacks have also complicated the situation along the border, with
some authorities worrying about what the ambulances might be holding.

The B&M International Bridge, which links Brownsville with Matamoros, Mexico,
has emergency crossings down to a science, said Joe Galvan, president of the
company that runs it. The company has its own security guards staffing both
sides of the crossing, and in medical emergencies a call goes out for the U.S.
side to clear a lane for fast passage.

Under a 1986 federal law, U.S. hospitals must treat anyone who seeks emergency
care, without regard to immigration status or ability to pay. The government
gives hospitals extra funding to help poorer regions absorb the costs of
unreimbursed care, but hospitals say it is not enough.

This becomes a particular philosophical question that these doctors are having,
said Dominic Dominguez, an administrator at Brownsville Medical Center. Part of
my signing to serve in this community is, I'll cover this emergency room. But I
didn't sign on to cover Mexico.

------

On the Net:

Border health commission: www.borderhealth.gov

Border counties coalition: www.bordercounties.org

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              31 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             April 29, 2003 Tuesday

Let's have open, honest debate on immigration

SECTION: READER S LETTERS

LENGTH: 344 words


THE EDITORIAL [One doesn't have to be born in U.S. to love it," April 24] is
manipulative and troubling. The opening sentences attempt to pre-empt valid and
newsworthy topics "EVERY now and then, particularly when the economy is bad, we
begin hearing murmurs about closing our nation's borders."

Our country can't afford the economic cost of immigration, the siren song
starts. Immigrants are taxing our school system. They don't speak English.

They're not part of our culture, etc. Rather than demonstrate to readers how
these "murmurs" are incorrect, the article awkwardly jumps to the virtues of an
"immigrant" Marine Lance Cpl. O.J. Santa Maria. The article clearly shows
Corporal Santa Maria as a decent sort, but is he representative of all
immigrants? What if he is one in a hundred? The article finishes with this: "We
need to keep our doors open for immigration, because this country can never have
enough people like O.J. Santa Maria."

Some questions I'd like to see the mainstream press deal with:

1. Why does poll after poll show Americans are disgusted with current
immigration policies?

2. Failing hospitals, due to immigration? Never discussed.

3. Why have the press changed "illegal alien" to "undocumented immigrant" or
simply "migrant?

4. What's wrong with open and honest debate on immigration?

5. Why have the U.S. borders been left open for anyone to come in?

6. Matricula Consular, a valid form of I.D.? Or a valid form of revenue for
cities and banks?

7. What about the quality of life, environmental, and other issues that affect
everyone due to increased population? No story.

8. What about wage degradation and job losses to the poorest of Americans; is
this fair?

9. What about assimilation? Good, Bad, Anything? Nope!

10. Finally, why when people like myself call for open and honest debate on this
subject are we called "xenophobic" or "nativists" [or some such blather] by the
press, which, one might suppose, supports free speech? But that's a debate for
another day.

James Roddick

Redwood City

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              32 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                             San Mateo County Times

                           September 4, 2003 Thursday

House minority leader far too generous on immigration

SECTION: OP-ED

LENGTH: 755 words


FEDERICO de Jesus owes Victor David Hanson an apology.

De Jesus, a staffer for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Cal., falsely
accused Hanson, the distinguished author of the just-published book "Mexifornia"
[Encounter, 2003], of racism and xenophobia at a recent Capitol Hill briefing.

During his introduction, Hanson, a scholar of ancient Rome and Greece, was aptly
described as "a classicist." De Jesus somehow interpreted that to mean that the
author had a white "classist" bias against immigrants. Pelosi's aide, who
somehow earned a diploma without being able to make a distinction between a
classicist and a classist, got ugly with Hanson and stormed out of the briefing
in protest.

De Jesus' hysterics reveal what kind of not-so-beautiful minds the House's top
Democrat has shaping her views on issues, which is troubling because there
hardly is a more urgent issue facing America than immigration, particularly
illegal immigration from Mexico. And Pelosi, the San Francisco Democrat, ought
to know that better than most of her colleagues on the Hill. That's because
California is the state of choice for an estimated 40 percent of the nation's
legal and illegal immigrants, a disproportionate number of whom hail from south
of the border.

The nation's most populous state has reached the tipping point with Mexican
immigration. Every year, it adds not only 100,000 legal Mexican immigrants to
its population, but also, it is estimated, just as many illegal Mexican
immigrants.

Meanwhile, the quality of life further diminishes for the once-Golden State's
native-born population.

"Massive illegal immigration from Mexico to California, coupled with a loss of
confidence in the old melting pot model of transforming newcomers into
Americans, is changing the very nature of the state," Hanson writes, in
"Mexifornia."

While Mexican immigrants come to America no more or less poor, no more or less
uneducated than previous waves of immigrants, they are far more resistant to
assimilating into American culture. Hanson notes that, of the millions of
Mexican immigrants legally admitted to this country since 1982, only 20 percent
had bothered to become citizens by 1997.

A resistance to fully assimilating into American society and the de-emphasis of
"American" in Mexican-American, has impeded the Mexican immigrant population's
upward mobility in California. That notion is borne out by data compiled by the
Center for Immigration Studies, the Washington-based public policy group headed
by immigration expert Mark Krikorian. Some 65 percent of Mexican immigrants in
California are high school dropouts, according to the center, compared to only 7
percent of the native-born population. Some 41 percent of Mexican immigrant
households are on the public welfare rolls, compared to 14 percent of natives.

The socio-economic status of Mexican immigrants barely improves over time.
Nearly 55 percent of Mexican immigrants are living in or near poverty after
residing here in this country more than 20 years. Some 45 percent are without
health care after 20 years and 37 percent are still relying on welfare.

The reality is that second and third generation Mexican-Americans are barely
better off than their forebears who immigrated to this country.

So why does America continue to allow the yearly influx of hundreds of thousands
of Mexican immigrants, not just legal, but also illegal? Because there are
interests on both the right and left that favor this nation's de facto open
borders policy.

Conservative corporations, contractors and agribusiness demand cheap labor from
Mexico, according to Hanson, no matter the social consequences. Meanwhile,
so-called "progressive" academics, journalists, government bureaucrats and La
Raza advocates see illegal immigrants as a vast new political constituency for
those peddling the notion that victimhood, not citizenship, is the key to
advancement.

The American public sees things different from both ideological camps.

Two-thirds believe the United States should set the goal of completely halting
illegal immigration, according a Roper-ASW poll this past March. And nearly half
say legal immigration levels should be decreased, according to a Gallup poll
last month.

It's not that two-thirds of Americans are racists, or that half are xenophobic.
It's just that they recognize that this nation, which admits more immigrants
each year than any other, can no longer afford to be so overly magnanimous.

Joseph Perkins is a columnist for

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              33 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 13, 2002, Wednesday

Two San Diego area teenagers charged with hate crime in migrant beating

LENGTH: 270 words

DATELINE: EL CAJON, Calif. (AP)


Two teenagers were charged with hate crimes in an attack that left an illegal
immigrant in a coma.

James Grlicky and Waylon Kennell, both 17, pleaded innocent Tuesday to charges
of robbery, assault, torture, conspiracy and hate-crime allegations. They were
charged as adults.

A third suspect, Justin Samuel Smith, 18, was arrested shortly after the attack
and has pleaded innocent to similar charges.

Jose Luis Cisneros was hospitalized in a come for several days following the
Sept. 24 attack in east San Diego County.

He continues to recover from head and facial injuries, a Mexican Consulate
official said.

Outside the courtroom, Kennell's lawyer said his client had been holding
Cisneros for the U.S. Border Patrol and acted in self-defense when Cisneros
''came toward him.''

''He had gotten some information that this guy was illegal and thought he was
doing his part,'' attorney Kerry Armstrong said. ''You hear a lot of stories
about so-called illegals coming over. My client has a problem with it to a
certain extent. He thinks if people are coming over, they should do it
legally.''

Deputy District Attorney Wendy Patrick said the defendants went looking for
''beaners'' to beat and rob and went to a spot where they knew they could find
undocumented immigrants.

Patrick said Cisneros was repeatedly stomped in the face.

In an interview last month at the Mexican Consulate, Cisneros told The San Diego
Union-Tribune he had crossed the border illegally the day of the attack to look
for work.

He was walking near a highway when he was assaulted and robbed of his wallet and
$40, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     November 23, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Repatriating money carries high fees, risks;
MANY LATIN IMMIGRANTS STILL USE WIRE TRANSFERS

BYLINE: By Suzanne Gamboa; Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigrants who helped send $23 billion home to Latin America and the Caribbean
last year say the transactions are too costly and put undocumented workers in
danger of arrest.

Only 9 percent of 302 U.S. immigrants interviewed for the study use banks to
send money home, according to the study by the Pew Hispanic Center and the
Inter-American Development Bank. Eighty-three percent still use wire transfer
companies, and the remaining 8 percent send money home by courier or family
member, according to the study released Friday.

Once a cottage industry in which cash was hand-carried across borders, the
international money transfer business has bloomed into a network of banks,
automatic teller machines and, increasingly, credit unions that move money
electronically between accounts.

Although costs for transfers have dropped, many immigrants still pay fees
totaling 10 percent to 15 percent of the amounts they send back to their
families, an average $200 to $300 at a time, the report said.

''If you look at what it costs you now to either go overseas and pay a bill with
a credit card from an American bank or make a withdrawal from an ATM,'' the
costs are a fraction of what immigrants pay to repatriate money, said Roberto
Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center.

The center and the Multilateral Investment Fund of the development bank
conducted the research to gauge how immigrants are responding to the changing
money-transfer industry and to spur financial institutions to enter the market.

Interviews with immigrants were conducted by Miami-based Bendixen & Associates
for the Pew Center. Those interviewed were Latin American adults living in the
United States, many for at least 10 years, who regularly send money home.

The immigrants said they don't use American banks because they require them to
have U.S. documents and because fees and minimum balances are high. Some feared
opening an account could lead to being deported or detained.

The researchers estimated that $14.2 billion will go to Mexico, El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras this year, most of that sent by U.S. immigrants. The
study estimated $18 billion would be sent to those countries in 2005.

The Mercury News in 1998 published a series, ''Lost in Transit,'' showing how
high transaction fees and unfavorable exchange rates ate up as much as 20
percent of the remittances sent by migrant workers to their loved ones in
Mexico.

Since then, a federal class-action suit was filed by migrant workers, alleging
wire-transfer companies cheated them of millions of dollars in undisclosed fees.
The settlement will be awarded as soon as January: Several million people will
share $400 million in discount coupons for Western Union and MoneyGram, Matthew
Piers, a lead attorney on the case, said Friday.

In addition, over the past four years, federal and California legislation has
been proposed to force wire-transfer companies to be more forthright about
disclosing fees and exchange rate. Most of those measures have failed before
reaching a vote.

A Western Union spokeswoman said the company -- the largest in the industry --
has made consumer-friendly changes in recent years, such as narrowing the
difference between Mexican banks' official exchange rate and the rate charged to
customers.

The company also is more open about its rates -- customers can now turn to the
company's Web page to learn, before any money is transferred, how much will be
received.

''The unfortunate thing is that people have this perception'' that rates have
not decreased, said spokeswoman Wendy Carver-Herbert. ''Our fees are
competitive,'' she said.

Mercury News Staff Writer Edwin Garcia contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     December 24, 2002 Tuesday PS1 EDITION

Critically ill woman gets deportation stay;
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANT WITH KIDNEY AILMENT ALLOWED SIX MORE MONTHS, HOPES FOR
TRANSPLANT

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 625 words


A 27-year-old Bay Area woman who suffers from kidney failure and was scheduled
to be deported to Mexico the day after Christmas got a reprieve Monday when the
Immigration and Naturalization Service ordered her deportation delayed.

The immigration agency postponed her case for six months, allowing her to
continue to receive the critical treatment that keeps her alive while she waits
for a kidney transplant.

''I'm happy I'm able to stay even though it's temporary. It's better than
nothing,'' said Dalila Onchi, an undocumented immigrant from Michoacan state,
Mexico, who lives in Santa Cruz. Onchi faces deportation because she was
convicted of a felony for making a false statement on a U.S. passport
application.

Before Monday, her fate appeared grim: return to her hometown of Angamacutiro,
where there is no dialysis treatment and no ready access to the critical
medication she takes daily to survive.

''I was worried because if the INS decided that I have to leave, I have no
choice. I'd go back to Mexico and die,'' said Onchi, who has lived with failing
kidneys since she was 11 years old.

Being deported would have meant ''certain death,'' her lawyer Jai M. Gohel said.

Onchi, who came to the United States 10 years ago, tried illegally to get a U.S.
passport three years ago so that she could return to Mexico to visit her father
who had been severely injured in a car accident.

''Due to his condition, she wanted to see him, but in order to assure that she
could come back to the United States for treatment, she attempted to obtain a
false passport,'' Gohel explained in an April 2002 letter to the INS in San
Francisco.

Onchi pleaded guilty to one felony count, and she was sentenced to two years'
probation. The INS then began deportation proceedings.

''I'm not contesting that she's deportable,'' Gohel said. ''She made a very poor
judgment.''

But Gohel said her motivation to remain in the United States was driven by her
need for critical medical treatment. Onchi said she's been unable to study or
work because her condition has worsened over time.

She has to undergo five dialysis exchanges daily and has to take anti-seizure
and high blood pressure medication, medical care that is not available in
Angamacutiro.

Onchi wants to continue her medical care in the United States, while waiting for
a second kidney transplant. In 1992, Onchi got a transplant, but the kidney
lasted only four years. She's on a kidney transplant waiting list at the
University of California-San Francisco's Renal Transplant Center.

Monday's decision, a stay of the deportation order, means that Gohel must
re-apply with the INS to extend her time in the United States. The agency,
however, could have deferred action, allowing her to stay indefinitely.

Sharon Rummery, INS spokeswoman in San Francisco, declined to comment on Onchi's
case. But, in general, she said, most people in similar cases are ordered
deported despite their medical conditions.

''We make every effort to coordinate with the government of the country to which
they're going so there's no break in the treatment they're receiving. That
applies to everybody in these circumstances,'' she said.

Her deportation was ''a matter of life and death,'' said her brother Rodolfo
Onchi, who lives in San Jose and is a legal immigrant with a green card. His
wife is a U.S. citizen.

Her brother and her grandparents, aunts and uncles, who are American citizens,
are helping care for Onchi, who has emergency health care insurance.

''For now we're happy she'll be able to stay here,'' said Rodolfo. ''We don't
know what's going to happen in six months, but we have a little peace of mind at
least for now.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 4, 2003 Saturday

Arraignments in San Jose fraud case delayed;
PAIR REMAIN JAILED ON CHARGES THEY CHEATED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By Michael Bazeley; Mercury News

LENGTH: 305 words


The arraignments of a San Jose pair accused of defrauding immigrants were
postponed today, and the two will apparently remain jailed until next week.

Noel Ramayrat and Mercedes Alcantara are being held in lieu of $2 million bail
each on charges that they misrepresented their authority to offer legal services
to immigrants, cheating perhaps hundreds of undocumented immigrants out of tens
of thousands of dollars. Authorities said the case amounts to ''massive
immigration fraud.''

Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Jerome Nadler rescheduled the hearing
for the pair for Thursday. Nadler will also consider a request to lower bail at
that time.

Ramayrat and Alcantara operated an immigration consulting business in San Jose,
but neither is licensed to practice law in California. Authorities have also
accused them of grand theft, payroll tax evasion and conspiracy to commit
illegal immigration consulting.

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office says the pair enticed
immigrants into their offices with the promise of green cards and labor
certifications, but then never produced the documents. The two are also accused
of luring Filipino professionals to the United States with the promise of
non-existent high-paying jobs.

Ramayrat's attorney, Kenneth Robinson of San Jose, declined to comment other
than to note that Ramayrat is licensed to practice law in his home country of
the Philippines.

The district attorney's office named 18 victims in its criminal complaint. But
publicity about the case has garnered many more potential victims, Deputy
District Attorney Dale Lohman said. ''I have appointments set through all of
next week,'' she said. ''My goal is to so overwhelm them with victims and
evidence that they consider settling.''

Contact Michael Bazeley at mbazeley@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 1, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Illegal immigrants in U.S up by half-million a year

BYLINE: By Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of undocumented immigrants in the United States reached 7 million in
2000, and the net growth of the population could be as much as half a million
new arrivals a year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service reported Friday.

With 2.2 million undocumented residents, California had the largest number of
any state, about 30 percent of the total population. Texas, where the number of
undocumented immigrants passed 1 million for the first time, had the
second-largest figure.

But some of the most rapid growth took place in states such as Georgia, Iowa and
South Carolina, which had relatively few undocumented immigrants before 1990.

The figures marked an upward revision from a previous INS estimate of 5.8
million undocumented immigrants in January 2000. Many other authorities --
including the Census Bureau -- regarded that number as too low. Some experts
believe that the actual figure exceeds 10 million.

The new INS estimates showed the Mexican share of the undocumented population
increased from about 58 percent in 1990 to 69 percent in 2000. The number of
undocumented Mexicans increased from about 2 million in 1990 to 4.8 million in
2000.

The decade saw economic travails in Mexico, the beginning of the North American
Free Trade Agreement, and the spread of Mexican migration beyond traditional
destinations including California and Texas to states in the South, Midwest and
Northeast.

The other countries in the top 10 are El Salvador, Guatemala, Colombia,
Honduras, China, Ecuador, the Dominican Republic, the Philippines and Brazil.
But none of these nations accounted for more than 3 percent of the undocumented
population.

The report estimated that 968,000 undocumented immigrants arrived in 1999. But
about 245,000 left the country, for the most part voluntarily. An additional
183,000 became legal residents, and the remainder died. That resulted in a net
increase of 512,000.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 25, 2003 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Education drive for immigrants;
AGENCY PROMOTING LAW THAT REDUCES TUITION FOR UNDOCUMENTED COLLEGE STUDENTS

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 519 words


A statewide public service campaign to promote a law that allows undocumented
immigrant college students to pay lower in-state tuition, was launched Monday.

The radio and television campaign by the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Education Fund is hoping to reach between 10,000 and 12,000 college students who
qualify statewide, said Maria Lucero Ortiz, director of MALDEF's program that
does outreach to immigrants on higher education issues.

''We're making sure that no one is left behind getting educational opportunities
they're legally entitled to,'' Ortiz said, referring to Assembly Bill 540, which
took effect last year. ''We know people know about the law but we want to iron
out confusion about the exact requirements.''

The commercials will air for three months primarily in 10 California counties
with large immigrant communities, including Santa Clara, San Mateo and San
Francisco counties in the Bay Area.

Many non-profit immigrant advocacy groups have been promoting the new law, but
there has not been a statewide campaign. No one is sure how many students have
taken advantage of the law, which is designed for undocumented children who
attended and graduated from high schools in California.

''We're talking about children who were not involved in the decision-making of
their parents to immigrate to the United States,'' said Richard Hobbs, Santa
Clara County's citizenship director.

The law allows the students to pay the lower, resident tuition rates at
community colleges and schools in the California State University and the
University of California systems. Non-resident community college students, for
example, pay an average of $141 per unit each semester; a resident pays $11 per
unit.

''A statewide campaign is definitely needed, and it's great that MALDEF is
taking the lead,'' said Lisa Castellanos, community education program director
for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network (SIREN), a San Jose-based
immigrant advocacy group.

''If the main obstacle for some students is how to afford college,'' Castellanos
said, ''this kind of campaign is needed to help those students know that they
can go to school.''

California was one of the first states in the United States to adopt such a law,
along with Utah and New York. Illinois, Massachusetts, North Carolina,
Minnesota, Oklahoma and Wisconsin are considering similar proposals. Texas has a
more generous law: It allows undocumented students to also apply for state
financial aid.

Despite growing national support for laws like AB 540, a debate rages on. Groups
that support strict immigration controls are raising new objections.

''The irony is the state of California is $35 billion in the hole and is looking
to extend costly benefits to people who are breaking the law,'' said Ira
Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national group that opposed AB 540.

For additional information on AB 540, visit the Web site of the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Education Fund at www.maldef.org

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 25, 2003 Tuesday

State program promotes lower tuition for immigrants

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

LENGTH: 420 words


A statewide public service campaign to promote a law that allows undocumented
immigrant college students to pay lower in-state tuition, was launched Monday.

The radio and television campaign by the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, is hoping to reach between 10,000 to 12,000 college students who
qualify statewide, said Maria Lucero Ortiz, director of MALDEF's program that
does outreach to immigrants on higher education issues.

''We're making sure that no one is left behind getting educational opportunities
they're legally entitled to,'' Ortiz said, referring to Assembly Bill 540, which
took effect last year. ''We know people know about the law but we want to iron
out confusion about the exact requirements.''

The commercials will air primarily in 10 California counties with large
immigrant communities, including Santa Clara, San Mateo and San Francisco
counties in the Bay Area.

Many non-profit immigrant advocacy groups have been promoting the new law, but
there has not been a statewide campaign. No one is sure how many students have
taken advantage of the law which is designed for undocumented children who
attended and graduated from high schools in California.

''We're talking about children who were not involved in the decision-making of
their parents to immigrate to the U.S.,'' said Richard Hobbs, Santa Clara
County's citizenship director.

The law allows the students to pay the lower, resident tuition rates at
community colleges and schools in the California State University and the
University of California systems. Non-resident community college students, for
example, pay an average of $141 per unit, each semester;a resident pays $11 per
unit.

''A statewide campaign is definitely needed and it's great that MALDEF is taking
the lead,'' said Lisa Castellanos, community education program director for
Services Immigrant Rights, Education Network (SIREN), a San Jose-based immigrant
advocacy group.

''If the main obstacle for some students is how to afford college,'' Castellanos
said, ''this kind of campaign is needed to help those students know that they
can go to school.''

California was one of the first states in the U.S. to adopt such a law, along
with Utah, and New York. Illinois, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Minnesota,
Oklahoma and Wisconsin are considering similar proposals. Texas has a more
generous law: it allows undocumented students to also apply for state financial
aid.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      October 3, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Latino group refuses to back Davis;
LEGISLATIVE CAUCUS REACTS TO VETO OF BILLS TO AID ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 648 words


A Democratic coalition of Latino state legislators is refusing to endorse Gov.
Gray Davis in next month's election, an unprecedented decision prompted by the
governor's rejection of two bills that would have given illegal immigrants the
right to apply for driver's licenses.

The gesture probably will have limited effect on the governor's re-election
campaign because many of its 22 members individually will support Davis, several
legislators of the Latino Caucus said Wednesday.

But the symbolic move is significant because the caucus represents more than a
fifth of the Legislature's members in a state where the Latino electorate
continues to grow.

"What difference does a caucus endorsement make in terms of voting behavior? Not
a lot," said Bruce Cain, political science professor at the University of
California-Berkeley. "On the other hand, certainly one of the things Gray Davis
wants is the strong turnout and high level of support from the Latino
community."

Pushing against a midnight deadline Monday, Davis vetoed AB 60, which would have
made driver's license applications available to undocumented immigrants who are
in the process of obtaining their legal residency. He also vetoed SB 804, a
companion bill that added some, but not all, of the security measures the
governor requested.

Davis said the legislation had too many loopholes that could have allowed
terrorists and other criminals to also obtain licenses.

Although some members of the Latino Caucus had endorsed Davis weeks and months
ago, the caucus as a whole waited for the governor's decision on the driver's
license bills. The coalition will not endorse any candidate, said Assemblyman
Marco Antonio Firebaugh, D-Cudahy, the group's chairman-elect.

"The facts speak for themselves," said Firebaugh, one of several members who
support Davis regardless of the caucus's announcement. "There's broad and deep
disappointment in the governor's actions."

Davis campaign workers said they were surprised by the caucus's message.

"To suggest the governor has berated Latinos in California because he has vetoed
a bill for very specific reasons is way out of line, and I don't think that's
going to ultimately sell very well in the Latino community," said Garry South, a
Davis campaign strategist. "The governor is very proud of his record in dealing
with issues that affect the Latino community."

The Latino Caucus decided against endorsing Davis because its bylaws require a
unanimous vote from its members, Firebaugh said. Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los
Angeles, who sponsored one of the driver's license bills, asked that the caucus
withhold its endorsement. At least two other legislators did the same.

"I know I won't support him; I won't vote for him," Cedillo said.

But not all caucus members shared the same view.

"It's definitely a message that I'm sure the caucus was very diligent and had to
deal with, but I am also glad that by the same token, they've let individual
members make their decision," said Sen. Liz Figueroa, D-Fremont. She already has
endorsed Davis.

Simon Salinas, D-Salinas, said he's disappointed by the governor's veto, but,
"on balance his accomplishments for the Latino community have been significant."

Davis has received overwhelming support from Latinos this year, according to
several polls. Shortly before vetoing the driver's license bills, Davis signed
another bill important to many Latinos -- legislation that gives union
farmworkers more clout at the bargaining table.

As of late Wednesday, the Latino Caucus hadn't decided whether to inform Davis
through a letter.

"I don't know that it's really going to impact individual voters in particular,"
said Viola Gonzalez, executive director of the Latino Issues Forum, a San
Francisco research and advocacy organization.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 4, 2002 Friday

Latino group refuses to back Davis;
LEGISLATIVE CAUCUS REACTS TO VETO OF BILLS TO AID ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

LENGTH: 648 words


A Democratic coalition of Latino state legislators is refusing to endorse Gov.
Gray Davis in next month's election, an unprecedented decision prompted by the
governor's rejection of two bills that would have given illegal immigrants the
right to apply for driver's licenses.

The gesture probably will have limited effect on the governor's re-election
campaign because many of its 22 members individually will support Davis, several
legislators of the Latino Caucus said Wednesday.

But the symbolic move is significant because the caucus represents more than a
fifth of the Legislature's members in a state where the Latino electorate
continues to grow.

"What difference does a caucus endorsement make in terms of voting behavior? Not
a lot," said Bruce Cain, political science professor at the University of
California-Berkeley. "On the other hand, certainly one of the things Gray Davis
wants is the strong turnout and high level of support from the Latino
community."

Pushing against a midnight deadline Monday, Davis vetoed AB 60, which would have
made driver's license applications available to undocumented immigrants who are
in the process of obtaining their legal residency. He also vetoed SB 804, a
companion bill that added some, but not all, of the security measures the
governor requested.

Davis said the legislation had too many loopholes that could have allowed
terrorists and other criminals to also obtain licenses.

Although some members of the Latino Caucus had endorsed Davis weeks and months
ago, the caucus as a whole waited for the governor's decision on the driver's
license bills. The coalition will not endorse any candidate, said Assemblyman
Marco Antonio Firebaugh, D-Cudahy, the group's chairman-elect.

"The facts speak for themselves," said Firebaugh, one of several members who
support Davis regardless of the caucus's announcement. "There's broad and deep
disappointment in the governor's actions."

Davis campaign workers said they were surprised by the caucus's message.

"To suggest the governor has berated Latinos in California because he has vetoed
a bill for very specific reasons is way out of line, and I don't think that's
going to ultimately sell very well in the Latino community," said Garry South, a
Davis campaign strategist. "The governor is very proud of his record in dealing
with issues that affect the Latino community."

The Latino Caucus decided against endorsing Davis because its bylaws require a
unanimous vote from its members, Firebaugh said. Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los
Angeles, who sponsored one of the driver's license bills, asked that the caucus
withhold its endorsement. At least two other legislators did the same.

"I know I won't support him; I won't vote for him," Cedillo said.

But not all caucus members shared the same view.

"It's definitely a message that I'm sure the caucus was very diligent and had to
deal with, but I am also glad that by the same token, they've let individual
members make their decision," said Sen. Liz Figueroa, D-Fremont. She already has
endorsed Davis.

Simon Salinas, D-Salinas, said he's disappointed by the governor's veto, but,
"on balance his accomplishments for the Latino community have been significant."

Davis has received overwhelming support from Latinos this year, according to
several polls. Shortly before vetoing the driver's license bills, Davis signed
another bill important to many Latinos -- legislation that gives union
farmworkers more clout at the bargaining table.

As of late Wednesday, the Latino Caucus hadn't decided whether to inform Davis
through a letter.

"I don't know that it's really going to impact individual voters in particular,"
said Viola Gonzalez, executive director of the Latino Issues Forum, a San
Francisco research and advocacy organization.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 6, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SCHOOL BILL WOULD HELP IMMIGRANTS;
DEBATE ON GIVING STUDENTS LEGAL STATUS BUILDS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1060 words


Humberto Retana wants to spare other undocumented immigrants the anxiety he felt
as a high school sophomore in Texas when he couldn't attend college because he
was in the United States illegally.

Retana found peace of mind when he became a citizen through an amnesty program.
Now he is working with others in the Bay Area on a more targeted but just as
controversial solution: the Student Adjustment Act, a bill in the U.S. House of
Representatives that would grant legal status to any child of undocumented
immigrants who is pursuing a college education in the United States.

"I asked my dad, 'What are we going to do?' " recalled Retana, 32, who crossed
the Texas-Mexico border with his mother when he was 8. "To me, the question was
so overwhelming. I felt utter helplessness."

Many Republicans and Democrats support the plan, saying it would provide a
permanent fix to the dilemma facing thousands of undocumented children who grow
up in the United States but can be deported even if they manage to earn a
degree. These children, they say, are paying a hefty price for the decision
their parents made to cross the border.

A similar proposal, called the Dream Act, died in the Senate last year but is
expected to be reintroduced in the Senate this month. It would allow eligible
students to apply for green cards, opening the door to precious federal grants
and other financial aid.

"The issue is when these students graduate from college, they're still
undocumented," said Bernardo Merino, a volunteer with the People United for
Legalization of Students, a Bay Area group that supports the bill. The federal
legislation would "legalize their status so they can fully contribute to
society," Merino said.

But a number of national groups that advocate tighter immigration controls
oppose the plan, calling it a back door to amnesty.

"This is a strategic move, so amnesty can be expanded to millions of other
illegal aliens," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies. "The supporters of this have calculated that by targeting
the most sympathetic group possible -- college-bound young people -- they can
create an environment where a broader amnesty is possible."

Giving students legal immigration status also sends out a message that illegal
immigration to the United States is acceptable, said Dave Ray, a spokesman for
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which also opposes the bill.

"The message this sends is, if you violate our laws, you can get amnesty," Ray
said.

Without a Social Security card, undocumented immigrants often find it difficult
to apply for college, even though some states, such as California, do not
require the document.

In most states, they also don't qualify for financial aid. Even if they manage
to complete college, they can't work legally in the United States without a
Social Security card.

California, New York, Texas and Utah have passed laws in recent years that allow
undocumented students living in the United States to pay resident tuition rates
at certain state universities, rather than the more expensive rates charged to
applicants who live out of state.

Under California's law, which took effect January 2002, undocumented students
must have spent a minimum of three years attending school in the state and must
graduate from high school to qualify.

Supporters of the federal legislation in the Bay Area and around the country say
they are encouraged by the strong bipartisan support -- 15 Democrats and 15
Republicans have co-sponsored the House bill.

"The situation for these students is really, really difficult," said Claudia
Gomez, an advocate with the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights in
Oakland. "They can't legalize their status on their own because there's no
mechanism for it."

For Retana, immigration law reforms in 1986 gave him the break he needed --
amnesty, citizenship and a higher education.

He graduated in 1999 from the University of California-Berkeley with a
bachelor's degree in psychology.

He spends weekends and nights working as a volunteer with the People United for
the Legalization of Students.

"I can identify with them because those circumstances were painful to me,"
Retana said. "I know it's for the ultimate good of the student and the good of
the community."

In California, an estimated 65,000 high school students who were brought to the
United States by their undocumented parents graduate each year but have little
hope of attending college.

"We all suffer when good students in our communities are prevented from
completing their education and realizing their potential," said Rep. Howard L.
Berman, D-Van Nuys, one of the primary sponsors of the House bill. "We've
already invested considerable resources in these children and, under current
law, we lose the potential gain from that investment."

Hundreds of national and local groups are joining together to place pressure on
politicians to approve the bill they say transcends debates about immigration,
said Melissa Lazarin, education policy analyst for the National Council of La
Raza, a civil rights organization on Latino issues.

"A lot of people are confusing this with immigration," Lazarin said. "It's
really an education issue."

Retana, who remembers sitting on his mother's lap as they floated across the Rio
Grande on a tire tube in 1978, knows his life could have turned out very
differently.

"I would have graduated from high school. I would have gotten fake documents and
worked as a banquet waiter like my father," he said. "I would have played cat
and mouse with the immigration service for the rest of my life."

LAWS, PROPOSALS THAT HELP IMMIGRANT STUDENTS
Thousands of undocumented children who grow up in the United States can be
deported even if they manage to earn a degree.

* The Dream Act would allow eligible students to apply for green cards, opening
the door to federal grants and other financial aid.

* The Student Adjustment Act, a bill in the House, would grant legal status to
the children of undocumented immigrants who are pursuing a college education in
the United States.

* California, New York, Texas and Utah have passed laws in recent years that
allow undocumented students living in the United States to pay resident tuition
rates at certain state universities.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Humberto Retana is working with others in the Bay Area for the Student
Adjustment Act, a bill in the House that would grant legal status to any child
of undocumented immigrants who is pursuing a college education in the United
States.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Humberto Retana, a child of illegal immigrants, was prevented from pursuing a
college education until he became a citizen through an amnesty program.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 18, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. INTENDS TO CRACK DOWN AFTER TEXAS MIGRANT TRAGEDY

BYLINE: KRISTEN HAYS, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Investigators believe that a smuggling operation in which 19 illegal immigrants
died after being packed into a sweltering trailer with dozens of other people is
part of a larger o organization, a federal prosecutor said.

Only one person has been arrested, a truck driver from Schenectady, N.Y.

Authorities believe that the "transportation cell" at the heart of the smuggling
case is part of a conspiracy to bring illegal immigrants across the border with
promises of jobs, said U.S. Attorney Michael Shelby of Houston.

"We are continuing to try to identify all of the different conspirators that are
involved in both gathering the individuals from Central America and Mexico and
then smuggling them across the border," Shelby said. "We are viewing this as an
organized criminal act, and we are going to prosecute the entire organization."

Shelby said Attorney General John Ashcroft had "expressed his keen interest in
the case," asking for daily updates and saying the "highest levels" of the
Justice Department are interested in the prosecution.

Officials said 70 to 100 people had been packed into the trailer, which was
found abandoned Wednesday at a truck stop south of Victoria, more than 100 miles
southwest of Houston.

Deputies found 17 bodies inside, and two more died later. Initial autopsy
reports showed that the victims died from dehydration, hyperthermia and
suffocation.

Five people removed from the truck remained hospitalized Saturday, said Marco
Nunez, press officer for Mexico's consul-general in Houston. He said more than
40 other survivors -- from Mexico, Honduras and El Salvador -- were being held
by the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Authorities said an additional 30 to 50 illegal immigrants were believed to have
fled the trailer.

Shelby commented about the wider investigation Friday when truck driver Tyrone
Williams, 32, appeared before a U.S. magistrate in Houston on charges of
conspiracy to smuggle, transport and conceal illegal immigrants.

His attorney, Craig Washington, said he would argue at a hearing Tuesday that
his client is not a flight risk and should be freed on bail. Williams could face
up to life in prison if convicted.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 19, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW LAW HELPS CHILDREN OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: ILLINOIS


Children of undocumented immigrants in Illinois will see their tuition bills
drop under a bill signed Sunday by Gov. Rod Blagojevich.

The new law allows those students, who had been paying out-of-state tuition, to
attend state universities and community colleges at the much cheaper in-state
rate.

"Every Illinois high school student should have the same opportunity to go to
college regardless of their immigration status," Blagojevich said to applause
from the mostly Latino crowd at the signing ceremony at the Benito Juarez
Community Academy.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 30, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CIVIL RIGHTS GROUPS SUE BORDER VIGILANTES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 102 words

DATELINE: TEXAS


Two civil rights groups filed a lawsuit Thursday against vigilantes who
intercept and detain immigrants illegally crossing the U.S.-Mexico border.

The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages on behalf of six undocumented immigrants
who crossed the border in March, then were apprehended by one of the vigilante
organizations on a private ranch. The immigrants were robbed and assaulted
before they were turned over to Border Patrol, the suit charges. The vigilante
organization, called Ranch Rescue, and the ranch owner denied anywrongdoing and
said the immigrants were treated with "respect and dignity."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 3, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REPORT: SEPT. 11 DRAGNET 'HARSH';
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT DEFENDS DETENTIONS

BYLINE: SHANNON MCCAFFREY, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Hundreds of illegal immigrants detained in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks were kept in "unduly harsh" conditions, delayed from meeting with their
lawyers and abused physically and mentally, according to an internal Justice
Department report released Monday.

The report, from the department's inspector general, criticized the Federal
Bureau of Investigation for making few attempts to weed out immigrants who were
guilty of overstaying their visas from those with terrorist ties. The FBI in New
York City "made little attempt to distinguish" between immigrants with possible
terrorism links and those "encountered coincidentally" in the investigation, the
report said.

The findings represented a high-level validation of concerns raised by civil
rights groups about the broad net authorities have cast in prosecuting the
campaign against terrorism, but Justice Department officials said they believed
they have acted legally.

"We make no apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the
American public from further terrorist attacks," said Barbara Comstock, director
of public affairs for the Justice Department. Comstock said several federal
courts have ruled the detentions are fully within the law.

More than 760 illegal immigrants were imprisoned in the weeks and months after
the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, as authorities traced
thousands of leads and sought to prevent a feared follow-up attack. Most of
those people -- more than 500 -- have now been deported, and none have been
charged as terrorists. Others are awaiting deportation.

According to the report, some detainees were locked in their cells for 23 hours
a day and put in handcuffs and leg irons each time they were moved. For months,
their cells were lit for 24 hours a day. Guards taunted some, warning them that
they would "die here." They were given only one call a week to a lawyer.

'Harsh' conditions

Inspector General Glenn A. Fine called the conditions "unduly harsh."

Justice Department officials said that despite their disagreements with some of
the report's conclusions, they have already adopted some of the inspector
general's 21 recommendations, which include developing uniform arrest and
detainee classification policies.

Fine, appointed in 2000 by President Clinton to what was regarded as a largely
non-partisan internal watchdog position, said that while he recognized "the
enormous challenges and difficult circumstances" the Justice Department faced
after Sept. 11, "we found significant problems in the way the detainees were
handled."

Federal agents investigating the attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon who stumbled upon illegal immigrants took them into custody for
violating immigration laws, a civil crime. The government has refused to release
their names, prompting several lawsuits.

Human rights groups, which have been sharply critical of the detentions, hailed
the report Monday, saying it shed light on conditions the government has sought
to keep secret.

"It confirms what we have been saying, which is that there has been a blatant
disregard for basic constitutional due process protections," said Riva Enteen of
the San Francisco office of the New York-based National Lawyers Guild.

The 198-page report focused on detainees in the federal Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn and the Passaic County Jail in Paterson, N.J. -- facilities
that housed the majority of the Sept. 11 detainees. Inmates at both had
complained of mistreatment.

Justice Department officials declined to disclose the number of detainees in all
states besides New York and New Jersey, which had 491 and 70, respectively. No
other state, including California, had more than 38.

Some detainees were in jail for more than a month before they were told what
they had been charged with, the report found. Immigration authorities typically
try to provide such notice within 72 hours.

Bureau of Prison officials imposed a communications blackout on theprisoners in
the weeks immediately following the attacks. Family members and lawyers who
sought to locate a detainee at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn
were often told -- erroneously -- that the person they were seeking was not
housed there.

FBI background checks were initially supposed to take just days, but instead
took an average of 80 days. The report blamed the FBI for not providing adequate
staff.

A senior federal law enforcement official, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said the FBI was intent on making sure no one was released who later turned out
to be dangerous.

"These aren't one-hour crime TV shows. These are serious investigations," the
official said.

The official described some of the detainees. One was a roommate of one of the
hijackers; another admitted training in a terrorist camp in Afghanistan; another
traveled to New York days before Sept. 11 with a pilot's license; and a fourth
worked in a store where 25 photographs of the World Trade Center turned up.

Pattern of abuse

In Brooklyn, where 84 detainees were kept, evidence indicated a "pattern of
verbal and physical abuse" of the detainees, particularly right after the
attacks.

Inmates reported being slammed against the wall by guards, an allegation
corroborated by one guard interviewed by investigators.

No criminal charges have been filed against guards, but one case was dropped
after a guard resigned.

Pakistanis made up 33 percent of those detained, the largest percentage.
Egyptians were second at 14 percent.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The New York Times and Mercury News Staff Writer Matthai Chakko Kuruvila
contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 5, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL ADVANCES;
ILLEGAL WORKERS COULD APPLY UNDER MEASURE

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 465 words


A proposed law that would allow undocumented immigrants to apply for California
driver's licenses -- similar to a measure vetoed by Gov. Gray Davis last year
because of security concerns -- was approved by the state Senate on Wednesday.

The new bill contains even fewer security provisions.

Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, is touting SB 60 as a measure to help illegal
immigrants, as well as the general public by ensuring that "all California
drivers are properly trained, tested and insured."

If approved, the bill, which now moves to the Assembly, could benefit more than
1 million drivers.

The Senate voted for the measure 24-14, with opposition from keyRepublicans.

Under orders from the Legislature, the Department of Motor Vehicles since 1994
has required driver's license applicants to present a Social Security card,
which is given only to those who are citizens or have permission from the
federal government.

Cedillo has proposed different versions of the bill over the past five years.

Under last year's bill, AB 60, applicants would have qualified for licenses if
they had first applied for legal residency from immigration officials, had been
screened by a criminal background check, and could show they worked at least 15
months in California.

The latest bill removes those requirements and essentially treats all driver
applicants the same, whether they are here legally or illegally.

If the bill becomes law, applicants ineligible for Social Security cards would
be allowed to provide a Taxpayer Identification Number issued by the Internal
Revenue Service, which is regularly used by illegal immigrants who file federal
taxes.

In addition, undocumented license applicants would undergo the same security
requirements as those who are here legally, such as recording their thumbprints
and presenting proof of birth identification.

Cedillo is winning the political support from a broader base of groups,
including labor unions, chambers of commerce, the insurance industry and law
enforcement officials.

"The goal of SB 60 is to make our local communities safer by ensuring that all
drivers are given adequate training and testing as well as an opportunity to
purchase auto insurance," Cedillo said in a statement.

Sen. Tom McClintock, R-Thousand Oaks, voted against the bill, saying it will
"destroy the validity" of a driver's license. He also said the bill was
unnecessary because undocumented residents and non-citizens can legally drive
with the licenses issued by the countries where they reside.

Spokesmen at the DMV headquarters and the Mexican Consulate in San Jose on
Wednesday said visitors from foreign countries are allowed to drive with a
foreign license for a limited time, typically up to 10 days and as long as six
months.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 9, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OFFICIALS: STEREOTYPES HELP FEED FBI PROBES;
REPORT SHOWS HOW VAGUE SUSPICIONS AFTER SEPT. 11 LEAD TO ARRESTS
VAGUE SUSPICIONS IN WAKE OF SEPT. 11 STILL IN USE, OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 965 words


The stereotypes and vague suspicions from the public that helped fuel the
roundup of hundreds of undocumented immigrants in the wake of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks continue to help drive investigations in the Bay Area, local
FBI officials say.

An internal Justice Department report released last week detailed for the first
time how the Federal Bureau of Investigation systematically used unsupported
tips as a justification to launch criminal investigations to ensnare people who
had overstayed their visas or had other immigration violations. More than 730
illegal immigrants were detained nationwide after Sept. 11, with more than 500
of those deported and none charged as terrorists.

The practice, immigrant advocates say, can give one tipster's prejudice
incredible potency and can lead to selective enforcement of immigration law. But
FBI investigators say the public -- regardless of people's personal views -- is
essential to doing their job.

"We look at the public as a way to expand the eyes and ears of the FBI," said
LaRae Quy, special agent and spokeswoman for the FBI's San Francisco office. "We
try to give everybody the benefit of the doubt, the person accused and the
caller. We're not going to launch a full-scale investigation against him simply
because a neighbor doesn't like the way he looks."

Checking out tips

The agency doesn't keep track of the number of tips from the public, but agents
will check out every one, Quy said. And in their investigations, FBI agents will
inquire about the immigration status of those they encounter, according to the
report. So if they stumble upon an immigration violation, they will pass on the
information to immigration officials, who will often seek a detention.

Some of the terrorist-related tips outlined in the report, however, reveal the
tenuous circumstances under which people were investigated and detained. One
person called to report that a grocery market run by "Middle Eastern men" seemed
to have "too many people to run a small store." Another called to say "two
Arabs" rented a truck from his business for a one-way trip but then returned the
truck soon after. When told they would not get a refund, the "extremely nervous"
men did not argue, according to the report.

"This situation creates a breeding ground for racist profiling and
stereotyping," said Marshall Fitz, associate director of advocacy for the
American Immigration Lawyers Association. "Since these people don't have the
same rights as citizens, they really end up bearing the brunt of this
categorical racism."

Stereotypes don't start all tips. Some tips offer detailed "facts" of a crime,
but even those can be false.

Last month, federal law enforcement officials arrested a woman, Hoda ElSaidy,
for making a bogus tip alleging her husband was part of a terrorist "sleeper
cell" that she said was planning to target a government facility in Monterey.
But the investigation nevertheless resulted in the arrest of her husband, Hany
El Nady, for having a fake green card, court records show.

Azmy Elghazaly, a former Salinas resident, believes he was arrested on
immigration charges a month after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks as a
result of a tip from someone he knows. He declined to elaborate, but he points
out that he has never been charged with a terrorism crime.

Elghazaly, who now lives in Bakersfield, also was charged with owning a gun,
which undocumented immigrants are prohibited from having, even if they legally
register the guns, as Elghazaly says he did. The Palestinian refugee is fighting
his deportation because his disabled daughter needs advanced medical care found
in the United States. Law enforcement and immigration officials, he said, were
only doing their job.

"They did what they are supposed to do," he said. "That's the problem. . . . I'm
willing to cooperate with them."

Immigrants cooperate

Such cooperation may be more common among immigrants who come from nations with
police states and who fear harsh punishment, such as torture, said Dan Mayfield,
a San Jose criminal attorney who has represented several peoplequestioned by the
FBI. So some illegal immigrants may needlessly waive their rights against
self-incrimination and can end up in jail because of their status, he said.

Sometimes the stereotypes that have led to the detention of immigrants have come
from law enforcement officials, immigrant advocates say.

Santa Clara resident Farooq Bhatti believes suspicion over his Muslim faith and
Pakistani heritage were the main reasons he and his friends were detained after
making a wrong turn near the Golden Gate Bridge on Oct. 6, 2001. A white man not
with Bhatti's group also was briefly held at the scene, Bhatti said. But he was
allowed to leave while Bhatti and his friends were interrogated and then
detained.

Enforcement worries

"They let that guy go because he was not Middle Eastern," said Bhatti, who was
released the next day because he held a valid H-1B visa. But his friend Arsalan
Saeed, whose H-1B had expired because he didn't have a job, was detained for
five weeks before being deported to Pakistan.

"In cases of other nationalities, this was not implemented with the same force.
That's unfair," said Bhatti, who nonetheless appreciates that legal immigrants
like him were let go.

That a reliance on stereotypes or suspicions might lead to selective immigration
arrests isn't the fault of the FBI, agents say. Immigration laws need to be
enforced.

"Based on what the public is made aware of through the media, that's what
they're going to make their suspicions on," said Tamara Nieman, special agent
and spokeswoman for the FBI's San Jose office. "The tips that you're talking
about come from the public. We're not out there profiling."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The report can be read at www.usdoj.gov: oig: igwhnew1.htm .
TIPS THAT LED TO ARRESTS
A Justice Department report last week about the roundup of immigrants following
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks revealed some of the tips from the public that
didn't lead to criminal charges but resulted in detention because of immigration
violations.
A "Middle Eastern" man put down a deposit on a car he was anxious about buying.
But when he did not return to pick it up on the specified date, someone tipped
off the FBI. The man was jailed for seven months.
A grocery store run by "Middle Eastern men" seemed to have "too many people to
run a small store," according to a person who called the FBI. One man was
detained.
Another person called the FBI to report that "two Arabs" rented a truck from his
business for a one-way trip but then returned the truck soon after. When told
they would not get a refund, the "extremely nervous" men did not argue. One man
was arrested in his apartment.
Source: U.S. Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector General

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 14, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FBI TO CHANGE DETENTIONS;
BUREAU VOWS TO ALTER RULES FOR ARRESTED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: CURT ANDERSON, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Faced with a highly critical report, FBI Director Robert Mueller on Friday
promised changes in the handling of illegal immigrants suspected of having links
to terrorism.

In a speech to an American Civil Liberties Union conference, Mueller said the
report last week from the Justice Department's inspector general "did a very
good job of pointing out areas where we can do better."

The inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, criticized the lengthy detentions -- some
up to eight months -- of many of the 762 illegal immigrants held in the
aftermath of the Sept. 11 terror attacks and the FBI's assumption of sole
authority to decide whether individuals remained a threat.

Conditions of custody were often unduly harsh and none of the detainees was
convicted of terrorism-related offenses, with such charges brought only against
Zacarias Moussaoui.

Among the changes, Mueller said, are better criteria for deciding when an
illegal immigrant is a suspect of special concern, improved communication
between agencies to accelerate the disposition of the cases and more personnel
devoted to the investigations.

In addition, federal immigration officials will have greater authority
overcustody of these illegal immigrants, with the FBI taking over only if the
case is made in writing that release of an individual poses a threat or would
disrupt an investigation.

Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff, head of the Justice Department's
criminal division, said in a recent letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee
that the FBI and Homeland Security Department -- which now handles most
immigration matters -- are working to implement these changes.

"These enhancements would further reduce the potential for impinging on civil
liberties," Chertoff said in the June 4 letter, which he said stated his
personal views and not official government policy.

Mueller said the FBI had redoubled its dedication to upholding citizens' rights
under the Constitution, even as it retools to make counterterrorism its top
priority. Some secrecy is necessary in combating terror, he said, and he said
many concerns about infringement of rights had been overblown.

For instance, Mueller said the FBI has investigated patrons' use of library
books and computers only when probing specific individuals with court-approved
warrants, rather than using random sweeps that critics fear.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 16, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ASK S.J. COUNCIL TO BACK DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL;
MAYOR RON GONZALES, IN PARTICULAR IS BEING PRESSED TO SUPPORT THE MEASURE THAT
WOULD ALLOW ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO APPLY FOR DRIVER'S LICENSES.

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 818 words


Supporters of state legislation that would allow illegal immigrants to apply for
driver's licenses are asking for an endorsement from San Jose leaders,
particularly Mayor Ron Gonzales.

A city council vote Tuesday would have no real impact on the measure --
considered one of the most important pieces of legislation affecting immigrants
in California -- and the measure itself has no direct consequences on city
governance.

But the political consequences seem plentiful for a Mexican-American mayor who
opposed a similar bill in the past and is sometimes criticized for being
unsympathetic to immigrants, particularly those who are undocumented.

"He needs to support his community," said Mandy Llamas, San Jose chapter
president of the Mexican American Political Association. "We are the people that
were out there advocating for him, working on his campaigns, getting
Mexican-American leadership in there to support our concerns, and we truly
expected that from him, and he needs to be held accountable for that."

Gonzales, who declined to be interviewed last week about the license measure,
previously has debunked such criticisms by saying he's the mayor for all people,
not just those of his own ethnicity.

Pros and cons

The measure, SB 60, would allow an estimated 2 million immigrants, most ofwhom
are currently driving illegally, to apply for licenses, according to the bill's
author, Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles. Cedillo said untrained and uninsured
motorists pose a threat to public safety.

Opponents say immigrants who are in violation of federal immigration laws should
not be rewarded with a license, which acts as a valid form of identification.
Some opponents fear that licenses could end up in the hands of terrorists.

Gonzales couldn't be reached for comment last week to discuss how he intends to
vote on Tuesday's resolution. Gonzales, through spokesman David Vossbrink,
expressed concerns over safety and cost increases if the measure becomes law.

The mayor brought up similar concerns when the issue came before the council
three years ago. At the time, he was adamant about his opposition to a driver's
license bill -- saying that giving illegal immigrants the right to have a
license would create a "loophole benefit."

At the May 2000 meeting, he also said he believed allowing immigrants to get
licenses would not add significantly to neighborhood safety issues.

The resolution was never put up for a council vote, so it failed for lack of
majority, according to meeting minutes.

Most council members haven't publicly taken sides on the new resolution. David
Cortese, Judy Chirco and Cindy Chavez are in favor; Ken Yeager said he's leaning
for it. Pat Dando, Linda Lezotte, Terry Gregory and Forrest Williams said they
haven't made up their mind. Nora Campos couldn't be reached for comment.

Councilman Chuck Reed opposes the new resolution because a license is considered
a "breeder document" that can be used to obtain other identification. "It's a
security risk," Reed said.

Bill in Assembly

In Sacramento, the measure cleared the state Senate on June 5 and is being
deliberated in the Assembly. Gov. Gray Davis twice vetoed similar versions of
the bill, citing security concerns.

Supporters have countered last year's veto with a statewide campaign, winning
the sponsorship of the California Federation of Labor. In addition, the bill is
endorsed by the California Democratic Party, Los Angeles City Council and the
Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors, among other municipalities.

Locally, the measure also is backed by the San Jose Driver's License Action
Network, a coalition of eight community groups, including immigrant rights
advocates and labor unions.

The coalition sought the support of several council members until Cortese agreed
to take up the cause and it ended back before the full council, said Cary
Sanders, policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network.

"Anybody who is going to be driving a vehicle in the United States and here, in
San Jose, should have a driver's license," Cortese said, "irrespective of their
legal status."

Martha Campos, an East San Jose community activist involved in the Strong
Neighborhoods Initiative, is among those seeking support from the council on the
measure.

"We're working hard with the city on its projects, and we also ask that the city
respond to our needs," she said.

City staff neutral

A staff report prepared for the council by Betsy Shotwell, the director of
intergovernmental relations, outlined advantages and disadvantages of the
proposed law, and recommended that city leaders take no position.

The San Jose Police Department has refused to take sides, said Assistant Chief
Thomas Wheatley. He said: "That's pretty much a political decision to be hashed
out."

The council will meet at 1:30 p.m. Tuesday at City Hall, 801 N. First St.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Jose Sandoval shows some of the signatures collected in support of state
legislation that would benefit 2 million immigrants.
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Jamie Camacho, left, Guadalupe Guzman, 10, and Lourdes Guzman listen to Jose
Sandoval campaign at the Tropicana Shopping Center in San Jose for support of a
Senate measure.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 18, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

S.J. BACKS PLAN FOR IMMIGRANTS;
MAYOR REVERSES HIS STANCE AGAINST DRIVER'S LICENSES

BYLINE: MIKE ZAPLER, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 660 words


San Jose Mayor Ron Gonzales and most of his city council colleagues on Tuesday
offered a symbolic endorsement of a state bill that would allow undocumented
immigrants in California to receive a driver's license.

The 9-2 vote, with council members Pat Dando and Chuck Reed dissenting, marked a
reversal for the Mexican-American Gonzales, who opposed the idea three years ago
and has been criticized for being unsympathetic to the plight of immigrants.

The non-binding vote came after nearly two hours of pleas by dozens of residents
to help what they called an invisible class of people trying to live ordinary
lives. Only a few people spoke against the proposal, SB 60, sponsored by state
Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles.

Supporters and opponents couched the initiative in terms of public safety.
Proponents said communities would be safer with fewer unlicensed and uninsured
drivers on the road. Opponents countered that allowing an illegal immigrant to
get a license could pose a threat to national security at a time of heightened
concerns about terrorism.

Roger Rivera, a labor union president and son of an immigrant, told the council
that illegal immigrants do many of the thankless jobs that keep the economy
running, and it's not right to make it a crime for them to drive.

"Give a voice to the voiceless," Rivera said. "I believe undocumented workers
are people too."

Joe Vierra was among just a few people who spoke against the bill, which was
approved by the state Senate and is awaiting action in the Assembly.

"If you give someone an official document, it's easier to commit fraud," Vierra
said, carrying a sign that read "Stop Voter Fraud."

Gonzales opposed the measure when it came before the city council for an
endorsement in 2000. At that time, the resolution did not reach a vote because
of lack of support.

But on Tuesday, after a long speech in which he chided the former Immigration
and Naturalization Service for making citizenship a tremendous hassle, the mayor
offered conditional support for the measure. He said he is against imposing a
new fee on all drivers to pay for the program, while expressing doubt that many
undocumented immigrants would risk getting caught by asking a government agency
for a license. (The bill states that records compiled by the Department of Motor
Vehicles are not public, and therefore couldn't be shared with the INS.)

"If there's anything I want to signal to all immigrants," Gonzales said, "it's
that you have my support in continuing to do the best job you can for your
families, and if this assists you in doing that, I support it."

Gonzales cited his late father, respected social activist Bob Gonzales, who he
said once told him that people willing to uproot their family for a better life
in America are the nation's real heroes.

Critics in the past have called Gonzales insensitive to immigrants, particularly
the undocumented. He said he changed his mind on the bill after learning that
seven other states have adopted the policy, and after talking with San Jose
police officials, who he said are no longer firmly against the idea. Police
Chief William Lansdowne said his department has not taken a position on the
bill.

But Dando and Reed said they were still uncomfortable with the measurebecause of
larger issues about security.

"This isn't a question of whether we support the immigrant community," Dando
said. Reed agreed, and added, "I think the government's highest priority is the
security of citizens."

Gov. Gray Davis cited similar concerns when he vetoed a version of the
legislation in 2001. A "driver's license is more than just a license to drive,"
Davis was quoted at the time in a city memo, "it is one of the primary documents
we use to identify ourselves."

City staff members initially recommended that the council stay neutral on the
bill, but Councilman Dave Cortese successfully persuaded most of his colleagues
to endorse the measure.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 18, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

S.J. BACKS PLAN FOR IMMIGRANTS;
MAYOR REVERSES HIS STANCE AGAINST DRIVER'S LICENSES

BYLINE: MIKE ZAPLER, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 660 words


San Jose Mayor Ron Gonzales and most of his city council colleagues on Tuesday
offered a symbolic endorsement of a state bill that would allow undocumented
immigrants in California to receive a driver's license.

The 9-2 vote, with council members Pat Dando and Chuck Reed dissenting, marked a
reversal for the Mexican-American Gonzales, who opposed the idea three years ago
and has been criticized for being unsympathetic to the plight of immigrants.

The non-binding vote came after nearly two hours of pleas by dozens of residents
to help what they called an invisible class of people trying to live ordinary
lives. Only a few people spoke against the proposal, SB 60, sponsored by state
Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles.

Supporters and opponents couched the initiative in terms of public safety.
Proponents said communities would be safer with fewer unlicensed and uninsured
drivers on the road. Opponents countered that allowing an illegal immigrant to
get a license could pose a threat to national security at a time of heightened
concerns about terrorism.

Roger Rivera, a labor union president and son of an immigrant, told the council
that illegal immigrants do many of the thankless jobs that keep the economy
running, and it's not right to make it a crime for them to drive.

"Give a voice to the voiceless," Rivera said. "I believe undocumented workers
are people too."

Joe Vierra was among just a few people who spoke against the bill, which was
approved by the state Senate and is awaiting action in the Assembly.

"If you give someone an official document, it's easier to commit fraud," Vierra
said, carrying a sign that read "Stop Voter Fraud."

Gonzales opposed the measure when it came before the city council for an
endorsement in 2000. At that time, the resolution did not reach a vote because
of lack of support.

But on Tuesday, after a long speech in which he chided the former Immigration
and Naturalization Service for making citizenship a tremendous hassle, the mayor
offered conditional support for the measure. He said he is against imposing a
new fee on all drivers to pay for the program, while expressing doubt that many
undocumented immigrants would risk getting caught by asking a government agency
for a license. (The bill states that records compiled by the Department of Motor
Vehicles are not public, and therefore couldn't be shared with the INS.)

"If there's anything I want to signal to all immigrants," Gonzales said, "it's
that you have my support in continuing to do the best job you can for your
families, and if this assists you in doing that, I support it."

Gonzales cited his late father, respected social activist Bob Gonzales, who he
said once told him that people willing to uproot their family for a better life
in America are the nation's real heroes.

Critics in the past have called Gonzales insensitive to immigrants, particularly
the undocumented. He said he changed his mind on the bill after learning that
seven other states have adopted the policy, and after talking with San Jose
police officials, who he said are no longer firmly against the idea. Police
Chief William Lansdowne said his department has not taken a position on the
bill.

But Dando and Reed said they were still uncomfortable with the measurebecause of
larger issues about security.

"This isn't a question of whether we support the immigrant community," Dando
said. Reed agreed, and added, "I think the government's highest priority is the
security of citizens."

Gov. Gray Davis cited similar concerns when he vetoed a version of the
legislation in 2001. A "driver's license is more than just a license to drive,"
Davis was quoted at the time in a city memo, "it is one of the primary documents
we use to identify ourselves."

City staff members initially recommended that the council stay neutral on the
bill, but Councilman Dave Cortese successfully persuaded most of his colleagues
to endorse the measure.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 22, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GRANTING LICENSES TO UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS WOULD HELP EVERYONE

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 702 words


I took a ride the other day with a Mexican immigrant who was DWI -- driving
while illegal.

I met Soledad at her sister's house, where we enjoyed a dinner of carne asada,
and then jumped into her little Toyota.

"The first thing I do when I start the engine is say a prayer," she said. "God,
please guide me safely."

The car was clean inside and out. Nothing flashy about it. An illegal immigrant
doesn't draw attention to herself, especially one without a valid drivers
license.

Some Latino politicians and labor leaders want to grant drivers licenses to the
undocumented, but they keep running into opposition from close-the-border types,
nervous governors and a fear that identity thieves and terrorists will take
advantage.

"We're just like everyone else," Soledad said. "We work. We pay taxes. We don't
break any laws or cause trouble. We need to get to our jobs."

The buses in a city built for cars didn't cut it for a single mother working two
jobs and seven days a week. Petite and fit, she speaks with a deliberate voice
reinforced by sad eyes. It's hard to imagine her laughing out loud. In Spanish,
her name means solitude. I asked why she left Mexico two years ago.

"I was in a bad marriage," she said. "I left him the house, furniture,
everything. I had my sister and other family in the United States, so I thought
I'd see what life offered us here."

She reminded me of my grandfather, Jesus Sesma Rodriguez, who left Mexico at age
16 when his creepy brother-in-law moved into the house. My grandfather had
plenty of economic reasons to leave, but it was a personal jolt that finally
sent him over the border.

The forgotten element in U.S-Mexico relations is the most important one: Our
nations are married by history, territory and blood. Soledad's the same as a
divorcee in Michigan with a brother in California who says let's check out life
there.

We stop at Soledad's apartment, which turns out to be two small bedrooms above
the garage of a house. The rent is a whopping $800 a month, but she and her son
and daughter do have kitchen privileges and their own bathroom.

We head off to one of the two fast-food restaurants where she works, never going
over the speed limit or turning without a signal.

"I sometimes think about being undocumented, how others perceive of us," she
said. "But really, here's what I worry about: My two children, their education,
their future. I think about how I can remind them of the principles and morals
we live by."

She was a pre-school teacher in Mexico and worked at a department store, but
those jobs aren't available here to undocumented women who speak no English.

"I never thought I'd be cooking hamburgers for a living," she said, "but I've
learned a lot in this job. I've learned that the one who cleans up the office is
equal to the president of the company in this respect -- we all have dignity.
That's what I've learned."

We enter the restaurant and chat about immigration politics. She doesn't place
much hope in the drivers-license proposals. Me neither.

Yes, granting licenses to the undocumented would allow them to buy auto
insurance, which would help you and me after accidents. Giving licenses only to
undocumented persons in some process of legalization would be easier, but I keep
hearing the adamant voice of a regular caller:

"What is it about the word 'illegal" you don't understand? They don't deserve
anything," he says. "They're breaking the law just being here."

OK, so let's legalize them. Let's admit that we, our society and economy, need
them to do the menial jobs Americans won't. Let's call another amnesty, just
like we did in 1986, and then cut a new immigration deal with Mexico for more
low-wage Mexican workers.

I asked Soledad if she ever wishes to return to Mexico.

"No, my children's future is here now," she said, adding that she's enrolled in
English classes at a community college. "I'm the type of person who, when she
makes a decision, never looks back."

If you ever drive out this way, you might see Soledad in your rear-view mirror.
She won't be riding your bumper, honking the horn at you, trying to pass on the
right. She's the driver you don't have to worry about.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 24, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEATH RATE RISING IN ILLEGAL BORDER CROSSINGS

BYLINE: ANABELLE GARAY, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Immigrants illegally crossing into the Arizona desert are dying at a faster rate
this year, setting a pace to surpass last year's record death toll.

At least 123 illegal immigrants have died in Arizona since Oct. 1, the start of
the federal fiscal year, according to U.S. Border Patrol figures.

Most succumbed to scorching temperatures in the harsh desert. Other deaths were
attributed to accidents, drowning or unknown causes.

A total of 145 border crossers are known to have died in Arizona last fiscal
year.

"We have a human rights crisis of this proportion in our home," said Isabel
Garcia, founder of Tucson-based Derechos Humanos, a human rights group. "You can
put water or rescue beacons, but those are Band-Aid solutions, and we need true
lasting solutions."

Humane Borders, a group that operates water stations used by migrants, has
sought permission to set up a water station in Cochise County, in Arizona's
southeast corner. The Border Patrol's Tucson sector added five rescue towers in
June and increased the number of medically trained agents.

Although the number of attempted border crossings is about the same as last
year, the death toll continues to increase.

Border crossers appear to have shifted their journeys into southeast Arizona,
where water and shade are scarce. Over the last two weeks, an increasing number
of deaths started happening in Cochise County, officials said.

Some immigrant advocates argue the deaths are tied to policies that reinforced
border areas in California and Texas in the mid-1990s, pushing migrants to take
dangerous paths in Arizona.

But Border Patrol officials blame the death toll on ruthless smugglers, who fool
migrants into believing they can safely cross.

This summer's record-high temperatures and the desert's terrain also factored
into the deaths, said Frank Amarillas, a spokesman for the Border Patrol's
Tucson sector. The average temperature this month has hovered around 111.2
degrees, according to National Weather Service.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 2, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL ADDRESSES CHILDREN OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Legislation to give legal status to thousands of children of undocumented
immigrants was re-introduced Friday in the Senate for the second time in two
years. A similar bill is pending in the House of Representatives.

Called the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors, or Dream Act,
the bill received Republican and Democratic supporters who see it as a permanent
fix to the dilemma facing the children of undocumented immigrants who grew up
and attended schools in the United States.

"We're definitely moving forward," said Claudia Gomez, an advocate with the
National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights in Oakland.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 4, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WEAK LICENSE BILL SHORT ON SECURITY

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 662 words


Last year, Gov. Gray Davis vetoed a bill to let undocumented immigrants get
driver's licenses. He said it came close but ultimately failed to meet
post-Sept. 11 security requirements.

In response, a frustrated Sen. Gil Cedillo has introduced a new bill that not
only ignores Davis' objections, but compounds the potential for fraud and
identity theft. And yet, to the surprise of the governor's aides, Davis
announced at a barbecue in July that he'd sign Cedillo's bill "in aheartbeat."

Davis' heart has been beating double-time lately. Organized labor and Latino
groups have made it clear that he must deliver a license bill if he wants them
to deliver their votes against a recall.

Davis shouldn't knuckle under. This bill is too important.

Vital documentation

A driver's license has become a domestic passport, a de facto national ID: it's
what people need to get on an airplane, enter a federal building and establish
who they are. It's essential that the state know who it's giving one to.

SB 60, Cedillo's bill, has significant flaws that would erode the integrity of
the licensing system and undermine Californians' safety. Davis should demand
amendments now, before the bill reaches his desk.

In principle, Cedillo makes a strong case for licensing. President Bush has put
off immigration reform indefinitely. Undocumented immigrants should be able to
get to their jobs, schools and day care centers without hassle and fear. Many
are driving illegally now. Granting a license would require a driving test. It
would enable immigrants to buy auto insurance, though how many would is anyone's
guess.

The issue is not whether it's appropriate to license at least some of 2 million
undocumented immigrants in the state, but under what conditions.

Cedillo argues that licensing would enhance security. To get a license,
undocumented immigrants would submit a photo ID and thumbprint, so the state
would have a record of their identity.

The problem is that, under Cedillo's bill, the state would know only who they
say they are, not necessarily who they really are.

How it would work

Under current law, only residents with a Social Security number can get a
driver's license. To prove identity, the Department of Motor Vehicles checks the
validity of the number with the Social Security Administration.

SB 60 would allow individuals to submit an Individual Taxpayer Identification
Number instead. The Internal Revenue Service provides these numbers to
undocumented immigrants to encourage them to pay taxes. Until recently, the IRS
had handed out millions of the numbers with little effort to authenticate the
applicants' identity.

Unlike Social Security numbers, there's no way to check whether the tax ID
number is valid. The IRS doesn't share the information, and it's far from clear
whether it ever will.

Terrorists and undocumented workers with a criminal background could cheat the
system. And since the Department of Motor Vehicles lacks the technology to
cross-check thumb prints, a drunken driver with a suspended license or a father
avoiding child support could submit a tax ID number to get a second license.

The potential for fraud is a major problem that last year's bill largely
avoided. Only those immigrants who had applied for legal residency and who could
document a work record would have been eligible for a license. A background
check by the state Department of Justice would have been required.

Why it failed

Talks broke down over several issues, including what Justice could do if the
background check uncovered a criminal record.

The restrictions in last year's bill were reasonable; they should have been the
starting point in this year's negotiations. They still can, Davis willing. The
bill can be amended in the Assembly. But time is running out, and talks have yet
to start.

Signing a flawed bill would make Davis a little safer from a recall but would
compromise the safety of all Californians.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 19, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ARRESTS WON'T STOP IMMIGRANTS;
WAGES HERE ARE 10 TIMES AS MUCH
THEY'LL BE BACK

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 648 words


Letting the Border Patrol snatch people off the streets not only feels
unconstitutional, it's also not a smart solution to illegal immigration.

Let's look at what happened in San Diego several days ago. Baltazar Bailon
Benavides and four members of his family were on their way to the Mexican
consulate to apply for matriculas, or identification cards.

Within a block of the consulate, which is considered neutral territory, they
were arrested by Border Patrol agents and deported to Tijuana within hours. And
some hours after that a firestorm of controversy and confusion erupted along the
border, eventually reaching the new Department of Homeland Security in
Washington, D.C.

First, the local Border Patrol chief reacted to protests from the Mexican
consulate and immigrant advocates by reminding his troops they aren't supposed
to arrest people on city streets or question suspected illegal immigrants,
except along the border and at highway checkpoints.

Stopping illegal immigration at points of entry was the policy under the old
Immigration and Naturalization Service, but la migra of old is no more.

"Whose mythical notion is this that once an illegal alien is in the U.S. we're
suppose to turn our back," said Thane Gallagher, a Border Patrol agent and union
official.

"I refuse not to do my job," he told the Los Angeles Times. "They want us to
turn a blind eye even if we know that an alien is here illegally, and a
criminal."

The public argument became so hot that infuriated callers of the round'em up
persuasion were forwarded by the local Border Patrol office to national
headquarters. Before you could say the new "United States Bureau of Customs and
Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security," the old policy of no street
arrests was rescinded. What will replace it isn't clear.

But before we rush out and start raiding every garment factory in California and
chicken plant in Georgia, or staking out foreign consulates, we should remember
that we've been down this road.

Immigration agents conducted random raids all the time during the 1980s. What it
produced was a climate of fear where numerous American citizens and legal
residents were stopped and questioned simply because of the color of their skin.

What's certain is what didn't happen. The raids did not curb illegal
immigration, nor did it persuade would-be dishwashers and nannies to stay on the
other side of the border and suffer a lifetime of poverty or worse. The raids
merely drove illegal immigrants further underground.

In fact, you could say the raids backfired by encouraging immigration advocates
to push for the Immigration and Reform Act of 1986, which granted amnesty to
some 2.7 million illegal immigrants.

There's a better way to deal with illegal immigration. And here are three ideas:

* First, another amnesty is in order for the 3 million or so undocumented people
who have worked hard, kept their noses clean and proven they could become good
citizens if given the chance.

* Let's then recognize our desperate need for low-wage workers from Mexico and
other countries and make it easier for more of them to come here legally and
earn a decent wage.

* At the same time, let's crack down on employers and industries in the United
States that knowingly hire and exploit illegal immigrants. Such exploitation
should result in heavy fines or prison time.

In Tijuana, the Benavides family said their primary concern was getting back to
their jobs and relatives in San Diego.

Benavides and his two adult children worked as janitors while his wife stayed
home to care for the couple's 5-year-old daughter. They said it's difficult to
earn a living in their native Acapulco, where a job in an ice factory brought
home $60 a week. In San Diego, they earned nearly 10 times asmuch.

We can all be sure of at least one thing -- they'll be back.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joe Rodriguez is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 24, 2003 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT DEATH CASES RELATED, OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: TEXAS


The deaths of 19 illegal immigrants locked inside a sweltering tractor-trailer
near Victoria in May are related to the deaths of 11 immigrants found last year
inside a rail car in Iowa, according to the Mexican Attorney General's Office.

Authorities say a Harlingen safe house was reportedly used by Heriberto
Flores-Rebollar to hide immigrants before they were loaded into latched rail
cars to be smuggled past the border checkpoint at Sarita.

That same house was allegedly used by Flores-Rebollar's wife, Karla Patricia
Chavez, a Honduran woman awaiting trial in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 1, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LOOKING TO LURE LATINO VOTES;
EXPECTED HIGH TURNOUT SHAPES STATE CANDIDATES' CAMPAIGNS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 1150 words


Arnold Schwarzenegger plays up his immigrant roots. Lt. Gov Cruz Bustamante
switches from English to Spanish at televised news conferences. And one of Peter
Ueberroth's first campaign stops was at a Spanish-language newspaper.

From the get-go in this abbreviated campaign, most of the leading candidates to
replace Gov. Gray Davis, should he be recalled Oct. 7, have formulated
strategies to appeal to Latino voters, who comprised about 10 percent of the
total electorate in last November's gubernatorial election.

A higher Latino turnout is possible this time, experts say, because a leading
candidate, Bustamante, is Mexican-American. But nearly all of the leading
candidates are trying -- some in more obvious ways than others -- to woo
Latinos.

"This is an important constituency," said Marcelo Gaete with the National
Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials in Los Angeles. "You have
over two million Latino registered voters in the state, and as Latinos go, so
goes California."

Among the hot-button campaign issues is a 9-year-old ballot measure, Proposition
187, which would have curtailed public services to illegal immigrants had it not
been largely struck down in the courts. Candidates also are voicing opinions on
legislation heard in the Assembly this week, which would permit illegal
immigrants to apply for driver's licenses. Most of the state's undocumented are
Mexican.

Davis twice vetoed stricter versions of the bill, but has said he now supports
the measure. His campaign aides say there is no connection between Davis'
enthusiasm for the bill and the timing of the election.

"When the governor gets the bill and signs it, that will be just the latest in a
string of accomplishments that the governor has pushed to benefit Latinos," said
Gabriel Sanchez, press secretary for the anti-recall campaign.

But it is among those seeking to replace Davis that the battle for Latino voters
can be seen more clearly.

Latino advisers

Schwarzenegger, who frequently emphasizes that he's an immigrant from Austria,
receives advice on education issues from Jaime Escalante, a former East Los
Angeles high school teacher whose advanced calculus class was the subject of a
movie, "Stand and Deliver."

And the actor has tapped state Assemblyman Abel Maldonado, R-San Luis Obispo, as
a campaign co-chair.

"Arnold wants to fix the economy, fix the state and wants more jobs, and those
are all issues that are good for the Latino community," Maldonado said.

"Arnold starts with an excellent position with Latino voters. They identify
strongly with his immigration story," said Schwarzenegger spokesman Rob
Stutzman.

But some believe Schwarzenegger lost support among Latino Democrats when he
revealed that he voted for Proposition 187 and aligned himself with former Gov.
Pete Wilson, the Republican who campaigned for the measure. He has since said he
believes the measure was "divisive" and that finding ways to allow illegal
immigrants to remain in California is "the right thing to do." He also has come
out against the driver's license bill.

Schwarzenegger and Green Party member Peter Miguel Camejo are the only major
candidates who have uploaded Spanish-language information on their Web site.
Camejo's includes basic biographical details. Schwarzenegger's is much more
extensive -- even translating favorable newspaper articles and columns from
English to Spanish.

Connecting

Bustamante, a career politician whose grandparents are from Mexico, has tried to
connect with immigrants -- regardless of whether they can vote -- by speaking
Spanish at public events.

But unlike other candidates, Bustamante doesn't have a specific plan forLatino
outreach because he doesn't have to formulate one, said Richie Ross, the
lieutenant governor's campaign adviser.

Ross said Bustamante is as popular as a rock star at public events attended by
Latinos. And most Latinos in California are registered as Democrats, like
Bustamante. In a Field Poll released Aug. 16, Latinos favored Bustamante over
Schwarzenegger by a ratio of nearly 2 to 1.

No Spanish ads

State Sen. Tom McClintock, a conservative Republican, plans to give interviews
to Spanish-language papers but won't otherwise make a concerted effort to woo
Latinos, campaign director John Feliz said.

"We're not going to make a big deal about putting our ads out in Spanish because
the individual that is going to be a Tom McClintock voter already speaks
English, and we're not going to disrespect them," Feliz said. The issues
important to Latinos, such as good jobs and affordable homes, he said, are
important to all voters.

Like Schwarzenegger, independent Arianna Huffington has highlighted her standing
as an immigrant and native of Greece. She's been interviewed several times on
Spanish-language Univision and Telemundo television stations, though she doesn't
speak Spanish, said spokesman Parker Blackman.

"When she talked with Latino leaders" at a recent event in Los Angeles, "one of
the things they really connected over was the immigrant experience in general,
and what it's like to come and become part of the America," Blackman said.

Touting platform

Peter Ueberroth, a moderate Republican whose campaign has focused heavily on the
economy, visited La Opinion, a large Los Angeles newspaper, on his second day of
campaigning, to speak about his business experience.

"Mr. Ueberroth's focus on the economy is something that benefits Latinos," said
Christine Ribeiro Ruben, a campaign spokeswoman. "The Hispanic start-ups are far
greater than any other start-ups in the small business community."

Green Party candidate Camejo, born in the United States to a Venezuelan mother,
speaks frequently to Spanish-language media. His campaign is counting on four
"pillars" to rally Latino voters: affordable homes, living wages, driver's
licenses for all, and legalization for the undocumented.

"Of course the fact that I'm Latino and speak Spanish gives me a certain
advantage, but Latinos vote based on platforms, not based on whether a person is
Latino," Camejo said.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
How top candidates compare on Latino issues
Here is how Gray Davis and six gubernatorial replacement candidates stand on two

 issues important to Latinos: support for Proposition 187, the 1994 ballot
measure that would have severed public services to illegal immigrants, and
Senate Bill 60, which would allow undocumented immigrants to apply for driver's
licenses.
Driver's licenses
Candidate             Prop. 187                     for immigrants
Gray Davis            No                            Yes
Cruz Bustamante       No                            Yes
Peter Camejo          No                            Yes
Arianna Huffington    No                            Yes
Tom McClintock        Yes                           No
Arnold Schwarzenegger Yes                           No
Peter Ueberroth       No                            Yes
.
Source: Mercury News

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News staff writer Dion Nissenbaum contributed to this report.
THE RECALL
WHO SHOULD LEAD CALIFORNIA?

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 3, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASSEMBLY PASSES IMMIGRANT LICENSE BILL;
SENATE EXPECTED TO APPROVE GRANTING DRIVING PRIVILEGES TO UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: ANN E. MARIMOW, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 972 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


After an antagonistic debate colored by recall politics, the state Assembly on
Tuesday approved controversial legislation to allow as many as 2 million
undocumented immigrants to apply for California driver's licenses.

The Senate is expected to concur on amendments and give final approval as early
as today, and Gov. Gray Davis has promised to sign the measure, despite having
vetoed similar legislation twice before because of law enforcement concerns.

Lawmakers exchanged harsh words for more than two hours, with Republicans
accusing Democrats of politicizing the bill to help the governor defeat the Oct.
7 recall and Democrats accusing Republicans of being anti-immigrant.

Supporters called the 44-30 vote a victory for the public safety of all 22
million drivers in California. Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, who has fought
for the measure for five years, said it would ensure that all drivers would be
trained, tested and insured.

But to the people most affected by the measure -- an estimated 2 million
undocumented immigrants -- the vote means most may soon be driving legally to
work, to drop off their children at school, or to get to class.

Concepcion Lopez of San Jose, who has lived in the state for seven years, was
among the dozens of immigrants cheering the passage of the bill from the balcony
of the Assembly. Lopez takes a risk every time she drives without a license to
her part-time job as a concession-stand manager at the HP Pavilionand to
adult-education courses. Public transportation is not an option, she said,
because it would take hours to travel just a few miles.

"It's unjust that we can't drive. Most of us are honest people who have to work
to raise our kids," Lopez, 43, said in Spanish. "I'm nervous every day."

Support withdrawn

But the measure drew criticism from Republicans who had supported it in the past
but said it no longer protected against fraud and abuse.

Assemblyman Abel Maldonado, R-San Luis Obispo, spoke tearfully in favor of the
measure last year because it would have allowed his father to apply for a
license. Not this year.

"There is no way to verify who is going to apply for a license," Maldonado said.
"A criminal can come to California to get a new identity and that bothers me."

The bill -- SB 60 -- would change state law, which requires "proof of legal
presence" to obtain a driver's license. Then-Gov. Pete Wilson signed the measure
in 1993.

If enacted, the revision would allow undocumented immigrants to use federal
taxpayer identification numbers instead of Social Security numbers to apply for
driver's licenses. While the Social Security Administration can verify the
identity of an applicant who uses a Social Security number, the Internal Revenue
Service has said that taxpayer numbers are "not valid for identification outside
the tax system."

Applicants would also have to provide two other forms of identification such as
a passport, a birth certificate -- but not necessarily from the United States --
or an identification card issued by a foreign government.

Despite concerns from some law enforcement officials, the bill's author scrapped
plans to link the measure to the creation of a digital database of fingerprints
that would have allowed the Department of Motor Vehicles to verify an
applicant's identity. The fingerprinting system was removed to win support from
Senate Democrats who had privacy concerns.

But its removal left some Republicans asking, "What are we left with?" said
Assemblyman John Benoit, R-Riverside, a former law enforcement official. "There
are no provisions at all to determine who this person is."

Republicans also made fresh accusations that the governor is using the issue to
win support from Latino voters to help him defeat the recall.

Davis alienated the Latino community when he vetoed a similar bill last year.
Davis said he could not sign the measure without assurances that applicants had
"lived and worked in California for 15 months over the last three years and
passed a background check." Because of that, the Latino Caucus wouldn't endorse
him for re-election.

Support from Davis

This year's version contains none of those safeguards but has support from some
law enforcement officials, including Los Angeles Police Chief William Bratton. A
spokesman for the governor said Tuesday that he expects Davis to sign the bill.

"The governor is glad it's going to happen," said spokesman Russ Lopez. "This is
a huge population that contributes so much and they pay taxes and they already
drive."

The debate delved further into recall partisanship when Republicans brought up a
1993 vote of Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, the only major Democrat on the ballot.

Assemblyman Bob Pacheco, R-City of Industry, accused Bustamante of flip-flopping
on the issue. Pacheco said that Bustamante, then in the Assembly, had voted for
the tougher 1993 law but now was endorsing the less restrictive measure to win
support from Latino voters.

"He's buying your vote for a license," Pacheco said in Spanish, drawing loud
"boos" from some bill supporters in the balcony Tuesday.

Bustamante's chief of staff, Lynn Montgomery, said the lieutenant governor's
support for the 1993 bill was strategic, intended to slow down momentum for
Proposition 187, which sought to deny certain public services to undocumented
immigrants.

"When 187 was gearing up there was strategy to try and slow that down," she
said. "So many of the legislators voted for that bill to try and slow down the
impetus for 187."

Republican gubernatorial candidates Arnold Schwarzenegger and state Sen. Tom
McClintock of Thousand Oaks both oppose the driver's license legislation, and
both supported Proposition 187. Peter Ueberroth, the other leading GOP
candidate, supports the license bill and opposed Proposition 187.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Michelle Guido contributed to this report.
HOW THEY VOTED
Here's how Bay Area lawmakers voted on the Assembly floor on a bill to let
undocumented immigrants obtain driver's licenses. The measure passed, 44-30,
with six members not voting.
(No) Canciamilla, D-Martinez
(Yes) Chan, D-Oakland
(Yes) Cohn, D-Campbell
(Yes) Corbett, D-San Leandro
(Yes) Diaz, D-San Jose
(Yes) Dutra, D-Fremont
(Yes) Hancock, D-Berkeley
(No) Houston, R-Livermore
(Yes) Laird, D-Santa Cruz
(Yes) Lieber, D-San Jose
(Yes) Mullin, D-San Mateo
(Yes) Nation, D-San Rafael
(Yes) Salinas, D-Salinas
(Yes) Simitian, D-Palo Alto
(Yes) Yee, D-San Francisco

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Assemblyman Fabian Nunez, left, Sen. Gil Cedillo and supporters cheer the
Assembly's vote for driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants.
PHOTO: Alfredo Carrizosa Baron, left, of San Jose, and Jose de Jesus Sandoval of
Long Beach applaud the vote.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 10, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOMELAND SECURITY BALKS AT LAW;
INSPECTORS USE DRIVER'S LICENSES TO ESTABLISH CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 804 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Department of Homeland Security is concerned about a new California law
allowing illegal immigrants to apply for driver's licenses because border
inspectors often depend on licenses to establish U.S. citizenship, a top
department official said Tuesday.

After Gov. Gray Davis' decision to sign the law last week -- a move that has
become a major issue in the state's recall election -- the Department of
Homeland Security will adjust training for its inspectors and review policies
regarding driver's licenses, said Asa Hutchinson, the agency's undersecretary
for border and transportation security.

"It will place a greater burden and more difficulty on our inspectors at the
border," Hutchinson said in an interview after a U.S. Senate hearing on the
terrorism threat posed by fraudulent driver's licenses and other documents.

Driver's licenses are often used to establish citizenship when people are
returning to the United States from countries that do not require a passport to
visit, such as Mexico and Canada.

But the national security implications of California's law were unclear after
Tuesday's three-hour hearing, during which it was never mentioned.

The security risks of granting licenses to illegal immigrants is one of the main
arguments of the law's opponents. Monday, the California Republican Assembly, a
conservative group, launched a bid to gather enough signatures for a ballot
referendum to overturn the law.

"Everywhere else in the country they're looking at ways to heighten security,
but here in California, the Legislature and the governor decided to make it
easier," said Mike Spence, the group's president. State Sen. Tom McClintock,
R-Thousand Oaks, who is campaigning to replace Davis as governor, is backing the
referendum attempt. A Field Poll released today found that 59 percent of
California voters disapprove of the new law, with 34 percent approving.

Hutchinson did not criticize the new law, saying he did not want to get caught
up in the political controversy in California. Opponents charge Davis' decision
to sign the bill after vetoing similar legislation twice before because of law
enforcement concerns was a blatant attempt to appeal to Latino voters just weeks
before the Oct. 7 recall election.

Senators heard from several witnesses during Tuesday's hearing -- including a
Moroccan man who pleaded guilty to counterfeiting documents for members of a
terrorist cell in Michigan -- who said that the real national security threat
comes from stolen and falsified Social Security numbers, which allow potential
terrorists to obtain legal driver's licenses and other identification from any
state.

The General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, released a
report Tuesday showing vulnerability in the driver's license application process
in California and elsewhere, but the focus was on fraud. Investigators using
fictitious names, Social Security numbers and birth dates, along with
counterfeit out-of-state licenses and other documents, obtained driver's
licenses in California, six other states and the District of Columbia.

"If the General Accounting Office can do this, obviously terrorists can do it,"
said Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, chair of the Senate Finance Committee, which
convened the hearing because it oversees the Social Security Administration.

Robert Cramer, managing director of the GAO's Office of Special Investigations,
said after the hearing that whether a legal or illegal immigrant can obtain a
legal driver's license in California was not "really applicable" in determining
the threat from potential terrorists using false identification to mask their
identity.

Peter Ragone, a member of Davis' anti-recall committee, said the new California
driver's license law will allow the state to keep track of illegal immigrant
drivers because all applicants must provide a legible fingerprint. He noted that
about 30 police chiefs across the state supported the legislation.

But Spence, who is leading the move to rescind the law, said the GAO report
highlights an existing problem with driver's-license security in California that
the new law will only exacerbate. For example, the law allows illegal immigrants
to use federal taxpayer identification numbers instead of Social Security
numbers to apply for driver's licenses. While California can check the validity
of Social Security numbers, the Internal Revenue Services has said the taxpayer
numbers are "not valid for identification purposes outside the tax system."

Linda Lewis, president and chief executive of the American Association of Motor
Vehicle Administrators, which represents officials who run state motor-vehicle
agencies, told senators that driver's licenses are "one of the biggest loopholes
in the U.S. national security system."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@krwashington .com or (202)
383-6043.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 11, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DETAILS ON LICENSES FOR ILLEGAL MIGRANTS

BYLINE: GARY RICHARDS column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 494 words


Q
Gary, at last the debate over whether driving is a right or a privilege has been
settled, by Gov. Gray Davis, no less. In the signing ceremony for SB 60, he
declared that it was a right.

Jim Norvell
San Jose
A
OK . . .

Q
With Gov. Davis about to buy some additional votes to stay in office by signing
the bill to allow illegal immigrants to get a driver's license, will illegal
immigrants need to prove they have auto insurance before they can get a license?
Do they have to re-register and smog check any out-of-country (or -state) car in
California? I don't mind illegal immigrants driving as long as they obey the
rules of the road and drive properly registered, insured and smog-checked
vehicles.

Bob Kromer
A
According to the DMV, undocumented immigrants who apply for a license after SB
60 becomes law in 2004 will need to show proof that the vehicle they are using
for a drive test is registered and insured. All vehicles must be smogged if they
are newer than 1974 and have gasoline engines. There is a biennial test
requirement and a smog check on the first registration unless purchased new. All
vehicles that are registered must carry liability insurance as well because all
drivers must maintain minimum insurance coverage. Evidence of insurance
currently is required upon renewal of registration.

Q
I have been rear-ended twice by people who had valid driver's licenses but were
uninsured. How does this happen? Because 2 million undocumented immigrants will
now be applying for driver's licenses, experience makes me wonder whether they
will truly be "trained, tested and insured."

Maureen Ryan
San Jose
A
Details on this new bill are still being worked out, but here is what we know so
far:

* Undocumented immigrants must submit either a Social Security number, a federal
taxpayer identification number or other identifier deemed appropriate by the
DMV. But the state doesn't yet know what fits under this last category.

* They do not have to show proof that their presence in this country is
authorized.

* They must submit a birth certificate or other acceptable birth record, if they
can't show a Social Security number.

* Those who do not have birth certificates or records must submit two or more
documents that include verification records issued by foreign consulates,
military identification cards with photographs from the person's native country,
driver's licenses with identification photos from other countries or from
another state, territory or possession of the United States.

* They must take the written, eye and driving tests.

Q
I respect cyclists on the road, even the ones who ride like idiots. I would
respect them a lot more if they paid taxes to support the roads they ride
on.Some kind of license fee is needed.

Cliff Babcock
Benicia
A
The vast majority of adult bicyclists are also licensed drivers, and bike lanes
are paid through their gas taxes, as well as your gas taxes.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Roadshow

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 9, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY: FOREIGN WORKERS KEEP U.S. COMPETITIVE;
IMMIGRATION POLICY CENTER DEFENDS INFLUX OF H1-B HIRING

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Curtailing immigration of skilled foreign professionals to theUnited States will
hurt U.S. global competitiveness, inhibit innovation and job growth and send
high technology and research jobs to other countries, according to a study.

The study says that while U.S. security must be protected, immigration policies
should encourage and ease the legal flow of high- and low-skilled workers to
keep the country competitive in recruiting talented workers.

Labor statistics

The study was conducted by the American Immigration Law Foundation's Immigration
Policy Center, a non-profit that supports immigration.

"America's strength lies in its openness," said Stuart Anderson, the study's
author.

Anderson said despite complaints that foreign workers are taking American jobs,
statistics show that U.S. employers have not been rampantly hiring foreign
workers who enter on H1-B visas for temporary workers with specialty
occupations.

Anderson's study found that H1-B hiring rises and falls with economic times,
numbering 164,000 in 2001 and dropping to 79,100 in fiscal year 2002. The
national H1-B worker cap of 195,000 a year is scheduled to be reduced to 65,000
a year on Oct. 1.

Employer abuse of the program to find cheap labor also is not widespread, he
said. In 2002, the Department of Labor found only seven willful violations or
required removal from the program, even though the agency has increased
investigations, Anderson said.

The workers also help provide money for training Americans for high tech or
engineering jobs. Employers pay a $1,000 per H1-B visa holder. In five years,
$692 million has been collected. The money has been used to train 55,000 U.S.
workers and to provide scholarships to 12,500 students studying in science and
engineering fields, the study said.

Teresa Crowley, an immigration specialist for ChevronTexaco, said the company
rotates its foreign workers to the United States to get fresh views on company
work. But she said that after Sept. 11, visa policies have made it difficult for
her company to rotate workers, so they now rotate them to European countries.

She said workers already approved to travel to the United States wait eight
weeks or more for a visa appointment and then about 15 days to actually get the
visa. The process used to take three to four days, she said.

Processing slow

"It's become so burdensome, the company is thinking of slimming its operations
here and moving bigger portions overseas," she said.

On Aug. 1, the United States began requiring one-on-one interviews for seekers
of non-immigrant visas, like the H1-B. Stepped-up checks of applicants against
terrorism databases and watch list checks also are slowing down processing.

A critic of guest worker programs said rather than import foreign workers, job
wages, benefits and conditions should be improved so more American workers are
interested in filling those jobs or researching in the fields filled by H1-B
workers.

"If these are good jobs, isn't that what we want?" asked Steve Camarota,
research director for Center for Immigration Studies, a group that wants to curb
immigration. "Bringing in foreign citizens when millions of laborers and
citizens are out of work, that sort of makes you scratch your head."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 27, 2003 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Tyson Foods acquitted of hiring illegal immigrants

SECTION: BU; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (AP)


A federal jury acquitted Tyson Foods and three managers Wednesday of hiring
illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America as part of a nationwide
conspiracy to boost production and profit.

The jury of seven men and five women deliberated for less than a day before
acquitting on all charges.

''The verdict confirms that Tyson Foods made a concerted effort to hire properly
and abide by the law,'' company spokesman Gary Michelson said in a statement.
''While we're pleased with today's verdict, it's unfortunate that Tyson Foods
and our team members were needlessly subjected to this ordeal.''

Tyson executives testified during the seven-week trial that Tyson doesn't
encourage the hiring of illegal workers and said managers who did so acted
against corporate policies. However, two former managers who were indicted but
entered plea deals testified that they were doing what the company demanded when
they went along with the hiring of illegal workers.

In closing statements Tuesday, a company attorney said the defendants were
victims of an imperfect government system of screening immigrants and there was
no conspiracy by the Springdale, Ark., meat giant.

In all, six managers were charged along with Tyson in a December 2001
indictment. One fatally shot himself a few months later, and two others made
plea agreements in January and testified for the government.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 26, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAWYERS: TYSON KNEW ABOUT ILLEGAL WORKERS

BYLINE: From Associated Press and Dow Jones.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 112 words


Top executives at poultry giant Tyson Foods knew illegal workers were being
hired, yet were driven "to keep the chickens moving, the profits flowing," a
prosecutor told jurors Tuesday.

"Headquarters had a million red flags that things were not right," Assistant
U.S. Attorney John MacCoon said in closing arguments at the trial accusing Tyson
Foods of an immigrant smuggling conspiracy. Tyson has denied all charges.

Since the case began, U.S. District Judge R. Allan Edgar has dismissed 24 of the
36 charges stemming from a three-year undercover investigation. Remaining
charges relate to conspiracy, transporting illegal immigrants and fraudulent
documents.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News
MEAT

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 27, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TYSON FOODS ACQUITTED OF HIRING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, Tenn.


A federal jury acquitted Tyson Foods and three managers Wednesday of hiring
illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America as part of a nationwide
conspiracy to boost production and profit.

The jury of seven men and five women deliberated for less than a day before
acquitting on all charges.

"The verdict confirms that Tyson Foods made a concerted effort to hire properly
and abide by the law," company spokesman Gary Michelson said in a statement.
"While we're pleased with today's verdict, it's unfortunate that Tyson Foods and
our team members were needlessly subjected to this ordeal."

Tyson executives testified during the seven-week trial that Tyson doesn't
encourage the hiring of illegal workers and said managers who did so
actedagainst corporate policies. However, two former managers who were indicted
but entered plea deals testified that they were doing what the company demanded
when they went along with the hiring of illegal workers.

In closing statements Tuesday, a company attorney said the defendants were
victims of an imperfect government system of screening immigrants and there was
no conspiracy by the Springdale, Ark., meat giant.

In all, six managers were charged along with Tyson in a December 2001
indictment. One fatally shot himself a few months later, and two others made
plea agreements in January and testified for the government.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            September 6, 2002 Friday

Immigrants, tourists feel INS crackdown

BYLINE:  Michele R. Marcucci, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1507 words


http://media.mnginteractive.com

New and tougher rules in the wake of Sept. 11 have sent chills through the
immigrant community and kept scores of foreign visitors away.

Immigrant advocates complain that the rules are targeting the wrong people, and
one anti-immigration group said little has changed. Both question whether
officials are going after the right people: terrorists.

"It's a big public relations game. And the task at hand -- discerning risk -- is
lost," said Heba Nimr of INS Watch in San Francisco.

But foreigners who are here legitimately should not fear, Immigration and
Naturalization Service spokesman Russ Bergeron said.

"What we have been involved in is a very narrow, targeted and limited effort to
support counterterrorism investigations through the use of immigration law,"
Bergeron said.

Nimr said the agency's recent efforts, which include busts of illegal airport
workers dubbed Operation Tarmac, were not about fighting terrorism.

But Bergeron said that while some of those efforts might not directly target
terrorists, the agency is closing loopholes that could be used by potential
terrorists.

The INS is not engaged in a dragnet to tangle immigrants, Bergeron said,
pointing to a drop in the number of people it has deported from the United
States.

Deportations dropped 7 percent from the first three quarters of the 2002 fiscal
year compared with 2001, and the number of people declared inadmissible -- most
turned back at the borders -- dropped 30 percent, preliminary INS figures show.

Federal officials conceded that fewer people are coming to the United States.
The number of foreign visitors is down 16 percent this fiscal year, a number
that likely includes people trying to enter illegally, Bergeron said. Nearly a
third fewer foreigners have visited on visas since Sept. 12, due to a decline in
applications and a rise in rejections, State Department spokesman Stuart Patt
said.

But while fewer people from countries such as China and Mexico were deported
from the United States, people from seven countries saw their removal numbers
rise, including Pakistan, Egypt, Jordan and the Philippines, home to alleged
Muslim terrorists. The INS did not comment on the numbers.

Locally, removal numbers are on the rise, due in part to a 59 percent increase
in noncriminal removals -- including visa violators. San Francisco INS
spokeswoman Sharon Rummery declined to explain the numbers.

Crackdown on visas

Advocates have praised moves to create visas with biometric data and to set up
systems that track visa holders' movements in and out of the country. But they
complain about INS plans to shorten visa times and the quick deportation of
people whose visas expire -- people the agency did not go after as aggressively
in the past.

Workers on H-1B visas, once a lifeline for Silicon Valley companies in desperate
need of skilled workers, are being deported, immigration attorneys said.

"I know people who are in [deportation] proceedings based on the fact that they
lost their jobs," San Jose immigration attorney Saad Ahmad said. "Before 9/11
they wouldn't have done that."

Under a proposed rule, visitor visa stays could be shortened from six months to
30 days, and people applying to change their visa status -- such as laid-off
workers who wish to go to school in the United States -- will have to go home
and wait, instead of staying here.

Using an old law for what advocates said is the first time, the INS is requiring
visa holders to report address changes within 10 days or face deportation. Also,
student visa holders will have a much tougher time getting permission to work
off campus, they said.

The changes have created fear and confusion among foreign visitors, many of whom
will be thrust into a limbo state, said Marielena Hincapie, an attorney with the
National Immigration Law Center in Oakland. They could trip up otherwise
law-abiding visitors of all nationalities, advocates complain.

Other new rules could target Arabs and Muslims, they said.

The new visa tracking system, which is slated to go into place Oct. 1, will
initially require people from five Arab countries deemed to support terrorism
and others that present an "elevated national security risk" -- a list that is
rumored to include several Arab and African countries -- to be screened and
fingerprinted when they visit the country.

Advocates note the continued lack of information available about hundreds of
detainees on the government's "special interest" list, the majority of whom are
from Arab or Muslim countries.

"Enforcing the law is fine if it's done in a fair, non-discriminatory manner.
What we're seeing here is an unfair, discriminatory application of the law,"
said Lucas Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's
Immigrants' Rights Project.

The INS' Bergeron denies the charge. "Should we now conclude that we're going
after Roman Catholics, because most of the people arrested in [Operation] Tarmac
in Los Angeles were Mexican?" he said.

A lot of migrants are being affected by things that have not happened.

Just days before the attacks, President George Bush and Mexican President
Vicente Fox were talking about an amnesty that would legalize Mexican immigrants
who now live and work illegally in the United States

One such person, Raul, had hoped to buy a house, build his family and start a
business. But when the planes crashed, all hope was lost.

"Finally, legalization, amnesty was coming, and everybody was dreaming," said
Raul, a hotel dishwasher from Oakland who has lived in the United States
illegally for nine years and who asked that his last name not be used. "We were
expecting an amnesty. And now, we expect deportation."

With the attacks and a slump in the economy came a shift in the way immigrants
were viewed in America, advocates said.

"Before 9/11, immigrants were seen as contributing to the economy, and we were
talking about immigration reform to legalize folks that were here," attorney
Hincapie said. "Now the pendulum has swung the other way."

Part of the workers' problem may have nothing to do with Sept. 11. The Social
Security Administration is sending letters to employers when they find Social
Security numbers that do not match workers' names.

But the recent airport raids have frightened people, advocates said. People here
illegally who had little fear of the INS before Sept. 11 are now recognizing the
power the agency can have over their lives. Mexicans are starting to think twice
about coming illegally to the United States, Raul said.

That is fine by Ira Mehlman, Los Angeles-based spokesman for the Federation for
American Immigration Reform. Mehlman thinks the government should put stricter
controls on immigration and should say no to amnesty.

Mehlman said the INS is overloaded, and that it cannot keep up with all the
people who are here illegally. That helps potential terrorists, he said.

"It's relatively easy for illegal immigrants and people who want to do this
country serious harm to come here and stay here," Mehlman said. "If there's 9
million people running around the country illegally, the odds of catching any
one of them is diminished."

Raul said people are poor in Mexico, and that he came here hopeful for a better
life. He plans to join a "freedom ride" for amnesty next spring.

"I go to church and ask God to help us, to bring us hope for this amnesty," he
said.

Refugees also affected

Some of the people affected are playing by the rules.

Olive Briggs of Pinole has been trying for three years to bring her 91-year-old
mother, 63-year-old sister and two adult adopted children to the United States
from Gambia. Others in their group came here until just after the attacks. Then
the government shut down the refugee program to enhance security, and it has not
been the same since.

"Over there, they tell them it's the plane, they give them all sorts of
stories," said Briggs, who came here from Sierra Leone with her husband, Robert,
in 1997 after winning a diversity visa lottery that allows them to live and work
here legally. "But here, we have to wait."

New security clearances -- and the lack of resources needed to provide them --
have slowed the process so greatly that just 20,000 people have made it to the
United States so far this year, compared with54,000 the previous year, said Don
Climent, regional director of the International Rescue Committee in San
Francisco.

The slowdown could prove fatal for refugees stranded around the world, Climent
said, citing the recent deaths of eight refugees at a Northern Uganda camp.

Briggs said one of her adopted daughters has a heart condition, and her elderly
mother is not in the best of health. She is not sure whether she will have the
chance to bring her family, who escaped a brutal civil war in Sierra Leone, here
for help.

"Now we are in limbo, we don't know what is happening. Whether they're coming,
or they're not coming," Briggs said. "The wait has been long."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              68 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           September 7, 2002 Saturday

Governor struggles with driver's license bill;
Aides say Davis concerned about security, critics say he's looking for cover to
veto it

BYLINE: By Don Thompson, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


As governors nationwide struggle to balance the security of driver's licenses
against their residents' rights and convenience, nowhere is the debate more
pointed or political than in California.

Lawmakers first sent Gov. Gray Davis a bill a year ago granting driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants who have filed for a change in their immigration
status. But they withdrew the measure after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

They sent it to him again this year -- but he insisted on a series of additional
safeguards, including fingerprint background checks and cooperation with the
federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, before he would consider signing
it.

Now Davis' staff is researching whether the amendments adopted in the closing
hours of the legislative session are enough to satisfy his demands. Senators
altered Davis' proposed language before sending him the bill.

"We understand [the new bill] has all the points that the governor needed. It's
a word here, a phrase there" that is under review to see if it would affect the
law and force a veto, spokesman Russ Lopez said Friday. "We have to make sure
that people who don't deserve this privilege, this license, that come here to do
us harm, don't get their licenses."

The bill's author, Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, said he's confident
Davis has the language he needs.

"The security checks are in place," Cedillo said. "Through the legislative
process, I think they probably came out more to his liking."

Cedillo agreed with Davis that the measure should cover more than terrorists.

"Someone who has murdered someone, someone who beat his wife severely, someone
who has embezzled someone, those people wouldn't be eligible for citizenship
through INS," Lopez said. "Why should we give them a driver's license?"

The INS, not the state Department of Motor Vehicles, should be making those
decisions, countered Michele Waslin, immigrant policy analyst for National
Council of La Raza.

"A lot of DMV people are acting like vigilantes, thinking they're going to stop
immigrants," she said.

Nor would California's pending bill have done anything to prevent the terrorist
attacks, she argued: "Most of them had valid licenses, and a really determined
terrorist is not going to let driver's license restrictions stop them."

The alternative to requiring motorists to have training and insurance, no matter
their legal status, is to have "unlicensed, uninsured drivers fleeing the scene
of accidents," Waslin argued. "These end up hurting a lot of people who are not
terrorists."

Davis' insistence on sharing state information with the INS is particularly
troubling and perhaps counterproductive, she suggested.

"Since Sept. 11, all immigrant communities are scared," she said. "People are
afraid they can be deported for any little thing."

Though Davis says he wants to sign a bill, critics say he is seeking cover to
veto it without antagonizing the state's Hispanic community in an election year.

They also have accused him of trying to tie the measure to a second
controversial bill of importance to the state's large Mexican population, this
one strengthening farmworkers' ability to win union contracts when negotiations
drag out.

Lopez categorically denied any connection.

California has had the most extensive immigration driver's license debate of any
state, said Ann Morse, an analyst with the National Conference of State
Legislatures.

Since the attacks, legislators in 45 states introduced bills, and nearly
two-dozen states, including California, have taken steps to make their driver's
licenses tougher to obtain illegally, the NCSL said Friday.

Davis already signed a law creating the crime of conspiring to help people
illegally obtain a driver's license or identity card. The misdemeanor can bring
up to 6 months in jail and a $50,000 fine.

On the Net: Read AB1754, SB2596, AB60 and SB804 at www.assembly.ca

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              69 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                          September 18, 2002 Wednesday

INS unable to keep up with address changes;
Agency continues sending hearing notices to old addresses

BYLINE: By Mark BixlerCox News Service

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 582 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Immigrants are getting the word: The federal government wants to know where you
are.

So many immigrants have heeded a call to notify the government of their new
addresses that change-of-address forms are piling up unread at the Immigration
and Naturalization Service in Washington.

Before Sept. 11, 2001, about 2,800 immigrants a month notified the INS that they
were moving. That number increased to 20,000 a month after the terrorist
attacks.

Then, on July 22, Attorney General John Ashcroft dusted off an obscure law
requiring noncitizens to tell the INS of their new addresses within 10 days of
relocating. The INS has received about 870,000 change-of-address forms since
then but has processed only 120,000, said Danielle Sheahan, an agency
spokeswoman in Washington.

She said Tuesday that the INS will hire a contractor to help it keep up with all
the paperwork. The goal is to reduce the backlog by the end of the year. She
also said the agency wants to replace its antiquated, paper-and-mail system with
one that would let people update their address electronically or by phone.

Skeptics such as Mark Newman, an Atlanta immigration attorney, question the
agency's ability to help if the FBI or CIA asks for an immigrant's current
address.

I'll be shocked if they actually are able to collect those forms and get them
organized...to trace back to a particular alien if another agency wished to know
their whereabouts, he said.

One reason for the surge is that immigration lawyers and immigrant and refugee
advocates are urging the 18 million noncitizens in the United States -- at least
408,000 in Georgia alone -- to follow the law.

Sue Colussy, a lawyer who runs the Catholic Social Services clinic in
Atlanta,Even if Khoury dutifully mails Form AR-11 to the INS, though, Colussy>
wonders whether the INS will do anything about the forms. She has helped
hundreds of immigrants tell the agency of new addresses. She said the agency
failed to update its files in roughly half the cases. Instead, the INS kept
mailing notices of court hearings to immigrants' old addresses.

She suspects Ashcroft revived the law to give authorities another reason to
detain noncitizens suspected of wrongdoing.

The government has cited violations of immigration law that once were considered
minor in detaining hundreds of immigrants in the Sept. 11 investigation. The
government has not accused any of terrorism.

One such case in Atlanta received national attention among immigrant advocates
and attorneys. It involved Thar Abdeljabar, a legal immigrant from the West
Bank. Police in Raleigh stopped him for driving 4 mph over the speed limit. They
called the FBI after finding maps with towns circled in red [Abdeljabar said the
circles showed flea markets where he sold electronic equipment].

The FBI found no evidence of terrorism, but the INS jailed Abdeljabar for two
months. It tried to deport him for failing to report a change of address. But an
Atlanta immigration judge ruled Aug. 5 that the INS could only expel noncitizens
who intentionally fail to report an address change [Abdeljabar said the INS
never told him he was required to report address changes].

A growing number of immigrants might not be able to use that defense.

Luz Borrero, executive director of the Latin American Association, said her
employees are telling clients to tell the INS when they move. Many have never
heard of the requirement.

Some people are just incredulous, she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              70 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           November 9, 2002 Saturday

Dozens protest U.S. policy of deporting Cambodians;
Dozens protest U.S. deportation of immigrants after crimes

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci , STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND


Dozens of people gathered Friday to protest the United States' new policy of
deporting Cambodians convicted of certain crimes after they have served their
jail time.

They called the deportation policy unfair, saying that most of the people
eligible for deportation have lived in the United States since they were small
children and that they have few resources to survive in what they contend is
essentially a foreign country to potential deportees.

The government has an added responsibility to Cambodians, most of whom came here
as refugees, because U.S. policy -- the bombing of Cambodia during the Vietnam
War -- forced many to flee here, one rally organizer said.

"The people who are deportable grew up in America. And now America in essence is
rescinding its responsibility to us," said Loan Dao of Asians and Pacific
Islanders for Community Empowerment.

A 1996 law calls for the deportation of any non-citizen convicted of an
"aggravated felony," which includes everything from violent crimes and drug
trafficking to prostitution, burglary and fraud.

Deportations to Cambodia were stalled until March, when the government reached
an agreement with the Cambodian government to allow them. Deportations started
in October, Dao's group said. And thousands are at risk for deportation, they
said.

Immigration officials who carry out the deportations are only following the
dictums of judges and of Congress, which passed the 1996 law, said spokeswoman
Sharon Rummery of the local Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But speakers complained the law is tearing families apart.

Keo Chea's brother, Borom Chea, was convicted for a home invasion robbery he and
a group of others committed when he was 17. He was tried as an adult and served
seven and a half years in state prison.

After his release, Chea was picked up by the INS and taken back to jail, his
sister said. Now 27, he could be deported as soon as this week. And there are 50
others like him in the Bakersfield jail where he is being held.

"He came here when he was 3," said Chea, who traveled from Roseville to speak at
the rally. "All he knows is the U.S. All he knows is hamburgers and MTV."

Chea's parents, who fled Cambodia after spending four years in a Communist
prison, are scrambling to find family or a sponsor who can take him in when he
is deported. They don't speak about it much at all, she said. And her brother,
who had hoped to go to school after getting out of jail, has lost hope.

Chea, who majored in political science in college and plans to attend law
school, said she has lost a lot of faith in U.S. policies and the justice
system. She said she's still in denial and tries not to think about her
brother's fate.

"It's not right because he has served his time," she said.

Boun Hoeum Hen, 29, will also leave family behind if he is deported, after
serving a nine-month sentence for hitting his girlfriend. The Oakland man's
family includes a 6-year-old daughter and 9-month-old son. His sister, Tia Hen,
called the deportation cruel and unusual punishment.

Cambodia is so corrupt, she doesn't know what will happen to her brother, who
barely speaks the language and has lived here almost 20 years, Tia Hen said.

"He told me, I don't know how I'm going to survive back there," she said.Contact
Michele Marcucci at mmarcucci@angnewspapers.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              71 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           November 16, 2002 Saturday

Need for immigration reform

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 253 words


IN MY CIVICS class, admittedly, it was many years ago when students were
required to learn something, I learned that the primary purpose of the
government was to protect the people. I believe the term was to "to provide for
the common defense."

I believe that America's "open borders" immigration policies directly led to the
terrorist attacks and the admission of people who hate America. I cannot
understand why legislation has not been written to close our borders.

It seems like common sense [I understand this has disappeared and replaced with
being politically correct] to me that we should have:

Some sort of reliable entry-exit tracking system for all people who receive
visas.

Some sort of "smart" I.D. Cards for aliens [not for U.S. citizens] for all
entering our country.

Direct the State Department to deny visas to aliens from state sponsors of
terrorism.

Deport all illegal aliens and prosecute violators [and then deny them legal
entry to our country forever.]

Stop all "new visas" until a reliable entry-exit tracking system can be put into
place.

Abolish the "Diversity Immigrant Program" [which never made sense].

Representative Thomas Tancredo's Immigration Reform Caucus makes sense and our
Congressman Tom Lantos should be standing with Tancredo. Tom Lantos has sworn a
oath to defend the Constitution when he took office and I for one am waiting for
him to use some common sense and step up to help protect the safety of the
American people.

K.E. Kennedy

San Mateo

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              72 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 6, 2002 Friday

Court refuses asylum for Chinese couple fleeing abortion threats

BYLINE: By Deborah Kong, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A couple who claimed they fled China to escape threats of forced sterilization
and abortion were denied asylum by a federal appeals court Thursday.

An immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals had earlier said Xu
Ming Li and Xin Kui Yu were not eligible for asylum. In an opinion filed
Thursday, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed.

One advocate said the decision could have troubling implications for refugees
who apply for asylum.

The couple's attorney, Michael Karr, said he would advise them to ask the full
court to review the decision by the three-judge panel. Karr declined to comment
further on the opinion.

Li and Yu, an unmarried couple, fled China in 1998 after officials gave Li a
forced pregnancy exam. At the exam, she was held down while a doctor examined
her "private parts," Li, then 19, said according to court records.

As she yelled, kicked and demanded they release her, she was told she would
receive similar tests in the future, and if found pregnant, would be subject to
an abortion, Li said. Her boyfriend, Yu, then 21, could also be sterilized, she
said the officials told her.

"I was so scared. I was yelling. I was making noises," Li said, according to
court documents, adding that officials threatened her, "For the rest of your
life you cannot have child."

Her exam came after the two were observed spending time together until early
hours of the morning, and a man in their village told Li her relationship with
Yu was "shameful," she said. Li told him to stop interfering, and that she
planned to have many babies with her boyfriend.

After the exam, the couple went to the village's family planning department and
applied for a marriage certificate, but were told they did not meet the minimum
marriage age requirements -- 20 for females, 22 for males.

Li and Yu decided to marry anyway, but a few months later heard there was an
order for their arrest. They fled to San Francisco, where they claimed they were
United States citizens. They later admitted they were citizens of China.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service sought to send them back to China,
but Li and Yu applied for asylum. Karr said Li was persecuted because she
resisted a "coercive population control program" by the Chinese government.

Li was turned down by an immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals
because she failed to demonstrate she had been persecuted in China, or that she
had a well-founded fear of persecution, according to court documents. Justice
Department spokesman Jorge Martinez declined to comment on the case.

In its opinion, the 9th Circuit agreed with the Board. It also denied Yu's
asylum petition.

"While one many condemn the way Xu was treated as inconsistent with human
rights, we cannot say that the record compels us to conclude that her treatment
was an extreme form of cruel and inhuman treatment,' or that she would likely
face such treatment on her return," Judge J. Clifford Wallace wrote in
Thursday's opinion.

Judge Richard Paez disagreed, saying Li qualified for asylum because she was
persecuted.

The danger is that the court has somehow raised the bar on what you need to
show, Hwang said. If a woman who has gone through an invasive physical
examination of her private parts by strangers can't meet the standard for
persecution, what is that going to mean for the next refugee?

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              73 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 17, 2002 Tuesday

INS arrests at least 22 foreigners;
Program requires males 16 and older visiting from Middle Eastern countries to
register

BYLINE:  Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA


Immigration officials in Orange County arrested at least 22 Arab or Islamic
nationals who showed up to register under a new program aimed at screening
foreign visitors.

The men were among 7,200 foreigners who had been ordered to register with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service under the National Security Entry-Exist
Registration System -- the agency's first step toward a system that monitors all
visitors since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Under the program, all male visitors at least 16 years old from Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Sudan and Syria were ordered to register in person with the INS by
Monday. Men from 13 other countries must register by Jan. 10, and Attorney
General John Ashcroft added Saudi Arabia and Pakistan to the list Monday.

"The United States will always welcome visitors from foreign countries, but
after the tragic events of September 11th, it is clear that we have to
understand better who is entering and exiting our country," Ashcroft said.

INS officials refused to say how many people in Orange County showed up Monday
at the agency's Santa Ana office to register or the number or identity of those
arrested. Those arrested likely had overstayed their U.S. travel visas, INS
officials said.

By mid-evening, nearly two dozen people were still waiting to register inside
the Santa Ana office.

Civil libertarians have criticized the program, saying only law-abiding
foreigners were likely to show up to register. Some also called the process
discriminatory because only males from mostly Arab or Islamic nations are
targeted.

"It's primarily focused on one group instead of the 350,000 illegal immigrants
who are in this country," said Sabiha Khan, spokeswoman for the local chapter of
the Council on American-Islamic Relations. "This goes against everything this
country stands for."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              74 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            January 20, 2003 Monday

Registration push shows shift in INS policy;
Before 9/11 green card applicants could stay in U.S., now it seems they are at
risk of being jailed

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci , STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 939 words


A disturbing trend has marked the government's registration of men from 18
mostly Middle Eastern and African countries, immigrant advocates say: The
detention and threatened deportation of perhaps hundreds of men who have green
card applications pending in California and across the United States.

An estimated eight men were detained at the San Francisco Immigration and
Naturalization Service office during the latest round of registrations, which
closed Jan. 10. Dozens more were held briefly -- some over the weekend at
Oakland City Jail -- but were allowed to post bond, advocates say.

Advocates concede that in most circumstances, a green card application alone
does not grant the person who filed it the legal right to remain in the United
States.

But they say the Immigration and Naturalization Service rarely moved to deport
people who remained in the U.S. while their applications were pending -- until
registration started late last year.

"Immigration attorneys routinely advised people that if they had an application
filed, they didn't need a visa anymore," says Randall Caudle, chapter chair of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association of Santa Clara County.

"In our experience, if someone had an application pending for a green card, they
had status. Now all of a sudden, that's not the case," Caudle said.

INS and Justice Department spokespeople concede the INS didn't previously pursue
green card applicants -- who now number more than a million, Caudle says --
because it lacks the staff to do so. And the agency considered people who had
progressed far enough into the process to be here legally, according to a March
3, 2000, memo.

But the spokespeople say the INS must enforce the law against those who walk
into the agency's offices.

"No matter what the critics are saying, the law is still the law," Justice
Department spokesman Mark Corallo says. "We've said over and over again since
9/11 that enforcement of our immigration laws [has] been neglected for a long
time. And we can't afford to do that anymore."

Not enforcing the law onlyencourages more illegal immigration, says Ira Mehlman,
Los Angeles-based spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Advocates contend the green card applicants being detained by the INS are people
who pose no danger to national security. But the 19 men accused of perpetrating
the Sept. 11 attacks had no serious criminal problems before the attacks,
Mehlman says.

Still, not everyone can apply for a green card: Most apply through family
members or an employer.

Advocates said many applicants would be here legally if the INS processed
applications more quickly. For instance, the agency is now considering
applications filed by siblings on or before Jan. 8, 1991, according to the
latest State Department Visa Bulletin -- or applications from Dec. 15, 1981, if
the applicant is from the Philippines.

Those who apply through spouses or parents get through the process more quickly.
But the newest applications being considered, as of this month, are from May 1,
1999.

INS spokeswoman Danielle Sheahan says the long wait is largely out of her
agency's hands. And she says many of those facing long green card waits weren't
meant to stay in the United States to begin with.

By law, the agency can approve only a limited number of green card applications
each year for certain groups of people -- 226,000 for siblings and immediate
family members of legal permanent residents and140,000 through employers during
a typical year. Several hundred thousand additional family members who are not
subject to those limitations -- spouses, parents and minor children of U.S.
citizens -- also apply each year.

In the meantime, green card applications from inside the United States -- called
"adjustment of status" applications -- have spiked over the last five years
because of a law that allows applicants whose legal status has lapsed to pay a
fee so they can stay in the country while their application is being considered.

By the close of the 2001 federal fiscal year, the INS had a backlog of some
970,000 "adjustment of status" applications, according to the agency's annual
statistical yearbook.

Caudle says the INS hasn't even been able to keep up with the number of people
it can admit. The agency failed to meet green card limits in four of the last
five years, exceeding those limits only in 2001, INS statistics show.

But Mehlman views the backlog as a sign that the government should slow the flow
of immigrants into the United States.

Despite the complaints, the INS will continue to detain people it considers "out
of status," even if they have a green card application pending, the Justice
Department's Corallo says, although each INS office will have some discretion.
Caudle says such detentions, in the Bay Area, seem to be on the wane.

But those who are detained could get their green cards sooner than they had
expected. Instead of waiting for the INS to process their applications,
immigration judges will have to decide at upcoming hearings whether detained
applicants are eligible for a green card, pushing some of the agency's workload
into the courts.

"Those people will still continue to move down the channel that is the INS's
right hand, to legalize their status," says Peter Schey, a Los Angeles attorney
who unsuccessfully requested an injunction to prevent arrests and deportations
of registrants. "And in the end, an immigration judge won't let that person be
removed if they're eligible to legalize their status."

Contact Michele R. Marcucci at mmarcucci@angnewspapers.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              75 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             July 2, 2003 Wednesday

Bay teens caught in immigration round-ups;
Pakistani brothers speak out after they are designated for deportation

BYLINE: By Sean Holstege, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 786 words


Bay Area teens Hassan and Ahmad Amin and their mother Tahira Manzur are the
brave ones, their advocates say.

On Tuesday they spoke publicly about their treatment at the hands of U.S.
immigration authorities. Thousands of other South Asian and Middle Eastern
immigrants have experienced the same treatment in silence and anonymity,
according to critics of immigration policies since Sept. 11, 2001.

When the government required all immigrants from Pakistan to voluntarily
register at an immigration office in March, Hassan, 19, and Ahmad, 17, didn't
think twice. They had been living in San Jose since 1998, attending school or
playing football, and an attorney had advised the family they were here legally.

The attorney, it turned out, had overlooked a technicality in the Byzantine
immigration laws. Hassan was fingerprinted and sent to a holding cell in Yuba
City, 128 miles northeast from his home.

"My first husband died, I divorced my second and I've separated from my third.
This was the worst experience of my life, to see my son behind bars for nothing.
Nothing was worse," said Manzur, who came to the U.S. in 1973.

Imram Moghal, her first son by a previous marriage, who was born in the United
States and is a citizen, bailed his stepbrother out of jail for $4,000 after one
day.

"I was kept in a cell with the criminals," Hassan said.

The Amin brothers, who say they feel more American than Pakistani and worry they
have no future in the country of their birth. For now, all they can do is wait
to see what happens in immigration court.

"With the deportation process, my family will be separated again. I don't know
what the future holds for me," said Hassan, a De Anza College student. "I will
have wasted years at college."

Ahmad says he has to cut school once every three weeks to sign a form at the
immigration office declaring he remains in the country. It makes him feel like a
parolee.

Technically, the Amin brothers are "out of status," in violation of the
immigration laws. They face deportation hearings on Thursday and later this
month because their visas have expired.

"I can't comment on the specifics of the Amin brothers," said Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Sharon Rummery, "but generally
people who come to this country are not immigrants, they are temporary visitors
to our land."

"If you're out of status, then you've broken the law. You are not legally in the
United States if your visa has expired," said Rummery, whose agency was
transformed by the creation of the Department of Homeland Security in March.

She pointed out that visitors are only considered legal immigrants if they apply
to be permanent resident aliens. Typically, they need to be sponsored by a
family member or an employer or gain asylum by persuading authorities they are
fleeing persecution in their native country.

The Amin brothers applied for a green card four years ago, but the process is
slow; Rummery said it can take 12 years. In the meantime, special registration
caught up to them, as it has for an estimated13,000 Muslim men and boys who have
been deported since Dec. 10.

Samina Faheem of Palo Alto has set up a national hotline to help.

"Special registration has created havoc in my community. Honest, hard-working
people have been treated as common criminals," Faheem said. "I get calls from
concerned parents who are terrified when they don't hear from their children.
They think they've been arrested."

It took Faheem six months to persuade Manzur and her sons to come forward.
Manzur said she knows a dozen Bay Area families who just left the country.

Attorneys for the American Civil Liberties Union used their experience to call
for an end of special registration and congressional oversight of the nation's
immigration practices. Last month, an internal Justice Department audit of
post-9/11 detentions in the New York area concluded that hundreds of innocent
Middle Eastern and Muslim men were held in secret in "unduly harsh" conditions
and denied access to lawyers.

"This does not make us any safer. It alienates immigrant communities. The
government should stop equating immigrants with terrorists," said ACLU attorney
Jayashri Srikantiah.

Rummery said Congress mandated in 1996 a system to document the entry and exit
of visitors and gave the immigration service until 2005 to complete. She
described special registration as the first test of that system, which will add
more countries in the months ahead to the mostly Muslim nations on the list of
25.

Rummery said that everybody who is ordered to appear before an immigration judge
gets a due process and chance to persuade authorities to let them stay.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              76 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             August 29, 2003 Friday

San Mateo man accused in anthrax threat

BYLINE: WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Federal prosecutors announced Thursday that a San Mateo man was arrested at his
home on charges of mailing a phony anthrax threat to a federal immigration
office in San Francisco last year.

Mohammed Lateef, 32, is accused in a federal indictment of one count of
threatening to use a biological agent as a weapon.

He allegedly mailed the threatening letter to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, now known at Bureau of Customs and Immigration
Enforcement, at 630 Sansome St. in April of last year, according to the
indictment.

The letter allegedly contained a harmless white powder and misspelled messages
such as "Antrax," "Hate Isreal and destroy America" and "Al-Qaida."

Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Jacobs said the indictment was issued by a
federal grand jury in San Francisco on Tuesday and unsealed Thursday.

Lateef made an initial appearance before a federal magistrate in San Francisco
and was released on a $100,000 bond, Jacobs said. He is due to return to the
court of U.S. District Judge Marilyn Patel on Sept. 8 for setting of a trial
date.

The theoretical maximum penalty for the charge is life in prison, but if Lateef
is convicted, the actual sentence would be determined under federal sentencing
guidelines.

Jacobs said the prosecution is the result of a one-year investigation by the
U.S. Federal Protective Service in conjunction with an FBI Joint Terrorism Task
Force.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              77 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           September 9, 2003 Tuesday

U.S. focuses on immigrants, visitors

SECTION: ARE WE SAFER NOW?

LENGTH: 1379 words


THE GOVERNMENT is gathering more information on immigrants and foreign visitors
than ever before.

But the efforts may be doing little to protect Americans, experts say.

Without the intelligence and interior enforcement to back up the information
gathering, the same problems exist that led to the Sept. 11 attacks, experts
say.

"We still do virtually nothing to enforce immigration laws within the U.S.,"
said Ira Mehlman, Los Angeles-based spokesman for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform. "Once people get here, they have pretty much carte blanche
to stay here and do whatever they want."

Even if such efforts were enforced, they might not protect Americans from Sept.
11-style attackers, who were mostly educated men from middle-class families who
entered the U.S. legally and had no criminal record, according to the report,
"America's Challenge," by the Migration Policy Institute.

"If you have a network of immigration enforcement and collection, you're not
going to get the good terrorist," said report co-author Jay Peterzell. "But if
you have an [investigative] lead, having the network of information may help to
exploit the lead and turn it into something useful."

The report said programs such as special registration, in which male visitors
from 25 mostly Arab and Muslim countries were required to report to their local
immigration offices, could scare potential informants away.

Government officials say the aim is to protect the American public. "A large
part of that is knowing who's here," Greg Palmore, spokesman for the Bu-

reau of Customs and Border Protection.

But the current programs and those being put in place offer no guarantee that
such information will be readily available or whether it will be acted upon if
available, experts said.

One of the new programs will, for the first time, create a vast computer
database that tracks foreign students: when they arrive, what they study, where
they live and when they leave. The Student and Exchange Visitor Information
System, commonly called SEVIS, was created after officials learned that one of
the hijackers entered the United States on a student visa to study English with
Berlitz at Holy Names College in Oakland. He never showed up for class.

The $37 million SEVIS program is intended to keep tabs on the estimated 1
million foreign students and scholars who enter the United States each year. But
educators, who say they support the idea of a tracking system, complain that
SEVIS was rushed into place with no testing and very little employee training.
They say it has been plagued with technological glitches that slowed the system
or left users unable to access it -- sometimes for days.

As of Aug. 1, no foreign student or scholar was allowed into the U.S. unless
they had been entered into SEVIS -- a monumental task.

Federal regulations also require schools to track students even after they
arrive. Thirty days after the beginning of a school's fall semester -- which
varies by school -- colleges are required to report whether foreign students
have registered for class, and whether they're taking the number of course units
stipulated in their immigration papers.

But school officials aren't sure what the federal government will be able to do
with the information.

"Do they have the funding, the services, the personnel to act on anything? The
data may be good, but I don't know if there's going to be the manpower to follow
up on anything," said Kelly Moran, director of the Center for International
Education at California State University, Hayward.

The new Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement's manpower is focused on
immigrants with criminal records that render them deportable, the mandate
Congress gave its predecessor, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in
1996.

The new bureau has carried out a series of stings at airports, events and
government facilities intended to root out criminals who officials have said
would be susceptible to terrorists. The most recent bust was at Lawrence
Berkeley Laboratory, where three people were picked up.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Garrison Courtney said the number
of agents who can enforce immigration laws more than doubled when INS and
Customs enforcement joined March 1 under the Department of Homeland Security,
and that the agency has hired a few hundred additional agents since. The agency
also will rely in part on local law enforcement to help track down terrorists,
Courtney said.

Law enforcement officials, however, say that while they are willing to help on
specific matters, they won't do immigration officials' work for them.

The California Police Chiefs Association has opposed the federal drive to enlist
local police in immigration enforcement because it does not want to destroy
inroads police have made in local minority communities and may not have the
resources to do the work, executive director Leslie McGill said.

"If there's a criminal warrant, if someone wants to talk to them, if there's
reasonable cause that's a separate story," said Livermore Police Chief Steve
Krull, an association vice president. "That's a little different than just being
INS agents."

Still, Krull said that information sharing with federal agencies, while not
perfect, is improving.

But even with the proper manpower, the data available to government agents may
be limited.

A new entry-exit system for foreign visitors is slated to be in place at air and
sea borders by the end of this year. The $380 million system, dubbed United
States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indication Technology or US VISIT, will scan
passports and visas with biometric identifiers to verify identity and record
trips in and out of the U.S.

But the system won't be in place at all land borders until the end of 2005, said
Kathleen Walker, an El Paso, Texas, attorney and executive board member of the
American Immigration Law Association, meaning that many exits will never be
recorded.

Walker questioned whether US VISIT will even be put into place at air and
seaports by the end of this year as scheduled. A request for proposals to build
the system is not due out until November.

"It's faster than I've ever heard the federal or state government move," Walker
said.

Whatever is put in place may not put all available intelligence information at
the fingertips of immigration inspectors, Walker said. A June report of the
Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General detailed continued
delays in integrating the fingerprint databases of the FBI and INS, putting
completion off until at least 2008.

The government may also be sabotaging its own efforts to gather intelligence
with programs that target Arab and Muslim immigrants and visitors, experts and
advocates say.

Immigration officials' registration of tens of thousands of male visitors from
25 mostly Middle Eastern and North African countries drew the most fire, and may
have had the fewest security benefits, according to "America's Challenge."

The registrations netted 143 criminals but no terror suspects as of mid-August,
although investigations are ongoing, Customs and Border Protection's Palmore
said. In the meantime, nearly 14,000 people are facing deportation, and local
attorneys said that most of their clients who registered are in trouble for
committing visa violations or were waiting for their turn to apply for green
cards.

In March, the FBI interviewed Iraq natives nationwide, including hundreds in the
Bay Area. The interviews were for the most part conducted fairly, said Helal
Omeira of the Council on American-Islamic Relations in Northern California. But
many feel their community is unfairly suspect, he said.

That's the opposite of what the FBI is trying to do, said LaRae Quy, spokeswoman
for the bureau's San Francisco office, who added that the interviews did yield
some useful information.

"One of the most important parts is to get out there and dispel bad rumors about
what the FBI is, what we're trying to do," Quy said. "The benefit we got from
that experience was creating those channels of communication."

Contact Michele R. Marcucci at mmarcucci@angnewspapers.com and Michelle Maitre
at mmaitre@angnewspapers.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              78 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           September 9, 2003 Tuesday

Immigration data overwhelms U.S. government capabilities Third in a five-part
series

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NONE SPECIFIED

LENGTH: 1496 words


THE government is gathering more information on immigrants and foreign visitors
than ever before. But the efforts may be doing little to protect Americans,
experts say.

Without the intelligence and interior enforcement to back up the information
gathering, the same problems exist that led to the Sept. 11 attacks, experts
say.

"We still do virtually nothing to enforce immigration laws within the U.S.,"
said Ira Mehlman, Los Angeles-based spokesman for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform. "Once people get here, they have pretty much carte blanche
to stay here and do whatever they want."

Even if such efforts were enforced, they might not protect Americans from Sept.
11-style attackers, who were mostly educated men from middle-class families who
entered the U.S. legally and had no criminal record, according to the report,
"America's Challenge," by the Migration Policy Institute.

"If you have a network of immigration enforcement and collection, you're not
going to get the good terrorist," said report co-author Jay Peterzell. "But if
you have an [investigative] lead, having the network of information may help to
exploit the lead and turn it into something useful."

The report said programs such as special registration, in which male visitors
from 25 mostly Arab and Muslim countries were required to report to their local
immigration offices, could scare potential informants away.

Government officials say the aim is to protect the American public. "A large
part of that is knowing who's here," Greg Palmore, spokesman for the Bureau of
Customs and Border Protection.

But the current programs

and those being put in place offer no guarantee that such information will be
readily available or whether it will be acted upon if available, experts said.

One of the new programs will, for the first time, create a vast computer
database that tracks foreign students: when they arrive, what they study, where
they live and when they leave. The Student and Exchange Visitor Information
System, commonly called SEVIS, was created after officials learned that one of
the hijackers entered the United States on a student visa to study English with
Berlitz at Holy Names College in Oakland. He never showed up for class.

The $37 million SEVIS program is intended to keep tabs on the estimated 1
million foreign students and scholars who enter the United States each year. But
educators, who say they support the idea of a tracking system, complain that
SEVIS was rushed into place with no testing and very little employee training.
They say it has been plagued with technological glitches that slowed the system
or left users unable to access it -- sometimes for days.

As of Aug. 1, no foreign student or scholar was allowed into the U.S. unless
they had been entered into SEVIS -- a monumental task that required college
officials to log hours upon hours of data entry time.

Federal regulations also require schools to track students even after they
arrive. Thirty days after the beginning of a school's fall semester -- which
varies by school -- colleges are required to report whether foreign students
have registered for class, and whether they're taking the number of course units
stipulated in their immigration papers.

But school officials aren't sure what the federal government will be able to do
with the information.

"I haven't seen anything in the many discussions we've had with government
officials about SEVIS to explain what they're going to do with the information
that's been sent," said Kelly Moran, director of the Center for International
Education at California State University, Hayward. "Do they have the funding,
the services, the personnel to act on anything? The data may be good, but I
don't know if there's going to be the manpower to follow up on anything."

The new Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement's manpower is focused on
immigrants with criminal records that render them deportable, the mandate
Congress gave its predecessor, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in
1996.

The new bureau has carried out a series of stings at airports, events and
government facilities intended to root out criminals who officials have said
would be susceptible to terrorists. The most recent bust was at Lawrence
Berkeley Laboratory, where three people were picked up. It has also instituted a
"most wanted" list of criminals who skipped out on deportation orders and is
going after convicted child molesters in a sting called Operation Predator.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Garrison Courtney said the number
of agents who can enforce immigration laws more than doubled when INS and
Customs enforcement joined March 1 under the Department of Homeland Security,
and that the agency has hired a few hundred additional agents since. The agency
also will rely in part on local law enforcement to help track down terrorists,
Courtney said.

Law enforcement officials, however, say that while they are willing to help on
specific matters, they won't do immigration officials' work for them.

The California Police Chiefs Association has opposed the federal drive to enlist
local police in immigration enforcement because it does not want to destroy
inroads police have made in local minority communities and may not have the
resources to do the work, executive director Leslie McGill said.

"If there's a criminal warrant, if someone wants to talk to them, if there's
reasonable cause -- that's a separate story," said Livermore Police Chief Steve
Krull, an association vice president. "That's a little different than just being
INS agents."

Still, Krull said that information sharing with federal agencies, while not
perfect, is improving.

But even with the proper manpower, the data available to government agents may
be limited.

A new entry-exit system for foreign visitors is slated to be in place at air and
sea borders by the end of this year. The $380 million system, dubbed United
States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indication Technology or US VISIT, will scan
passports and visas with biometric identifiers to verify identity and record
trips in and out of the U.S.

But the system won't be in place at all land borders until the end of 2005, said
Kathleen Walker, an El Paso, Texas, attorney and executive board member of the
American Immigration Law Association, meaning that many exits will never be
recorded.

Walker questioned whether US VISIT will even be put into place at air and
seaports by the end of this year as scheduled. A request for proposals to build
the system is not due out until November.

"It's faster than I've ever heard the federal or state government move," Walker
said.

Whatever is put in place may not put all available intelligence information at
the fingertips of immigration inspectors, Walker said. A June report of the
Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General detailed continued
delays in integrating the fingerprint databases of the FBI and INS, putting
completion off until at least 2008.

The government may also be sabotaging its own efforts to gather intelligence
with programs that target Arab and Muslim immigrants and visitors, experts and
advocates say.

Immigration officials' registration of tens of thousands of male visitors from
25 mostly Middle Eastern and North African countries drew the most fire, and may
have had the fewest security benefits, according to "America's Challenge."

The registrations netted 143 criminals but no terror suspects as of mid-August,
although investigations are ongoing, Customs and Border Protection's Palmore
said. In the meantime, nearly 14,000 people are facing deportation, and local
attorneys said that most of their clients who registered are in trouble for
committing visa violations or were waiting for their turn to apply for green
cards.

In March, the FBI interviewed Iraq natives nationwide, including hundreds in the
Bay Area. The interviews were for the most part conducted fairly, said Helal
Omeira of the Council on American-Islamic Relations in Northern California. But
many feel their community is unfairly suspect, he said.

That's the opposite of what the FBI is trying to do, said LaRae Quy, spokeswoman
for the bureau's San Francisco office, who added that the interviews did yield
some useful information.

"One of the most important parts is to get out there and dispel bad rumors about
what the FBI is, what we're trying to do," Quy said. "The benefit we got from
that experience was creating those channels of communication."

Contact Michele R. Marcucci at mmarcucci@angnewspapers.com and Michelle Maitre
at mmaitre@angnewspapers.com .

"Do they have the funding, the services, the personnel to act on anything? The
data may be good, but I don't know if there's going to be the manpower to follow
up on anything."

Kelly Moran

Director of the Center for International Education at California State
University

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              79 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 5, 2002, Tuesday

U.S. Supreme Court overturns ruling in immigrant asylum case

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


The Supreme Court said Monday that a lower court was wrong to allow an immigrant
who feared mistreatment in his home country to stay in the United States.

Justices ruled against a young man from Guatemala who claims he fled to America
after being threatened by guerrillas. His asylum request was denied by U.S.
immigration officials, but an appeals court overturned that decision by the
executive branch of government.

Without hearing arguments, the Supreme Court said the Bush administration -- not
courts -- has the right to make those types of decisions.

The Bush administration, swamped with requests for asylum, had pressed the court
to decide that the appeals court wrongly interfered in the business of the
executive branch of government.

Asylum can be granted when someone has been persecuted or faces punishment in
his or her home country -- for things like race, religion or political
expression. The Justice Department received 11,000 asylum applications in the
1984 budget year. The number climbed to more than 60,000 in 2001.

Justices, in an unsigned opinion, said the case should have been sent back to
immigration officials.

The appeals court ''seriously disregarded the agency's legally-mandated role.
Instead, it independently created potentially far-reaching legal precedent about
the significance of political change in Guatemala, a highly complex and
sensitive matter,'' justices wrote.

Immigration officials will now reconsider whether Fredy Orlando Ventura should
be returned to Guatemala. He arrived in America in 1993 after guerrillas
threatened to harm him and his family if he did not join their forces. He said
relatives and friends had been killed by guerrillas and that an uncle was
seriously injured in a machete attack.

The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said Ventura should
not be forced to leave because he has been persecuted for his political beliefs.

''The evidence compels the conclusion that it is more likely than not that his
life or freedom would be threatened ... if he were to return to Guatemala,'' the
court wrote.

That court is considered the most liberal among the nation's federal appellate
courts. Frequently overturned by the conservative-leaning Supreme Court, the 9th
Circuit is portrayed in government paperwork as too sympathetic to refugees.

''Congress has charged the attorney general, not the courts, with administering
the immigration laws,'' Solicitor General Theodore Olson, the Bush
administration's Supreme Court lawyer, told justices in a filing.

Olson also said that the lower court frequently usurps immigration officials and
its approach ''compromises enforcement of the immigration laws.'' He said the
case has implications for foreign affairs and national defense.

The administration has been criticized for not granting asylum more often. Last
week more than 200 Haitian immigrants arrived in Florida on a crowded freighter.
They have been detained while the government decides whether to grant them
asylum, but immigrant groups believe most will be deported. A march was planned
Monday to protest their situation.

The case is Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Ventura, 02-29.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 20, 2002 Wednesday

Mother of teenage sniper suspect will be deported to Jamaica

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


The mother of teenage sniper suspect John Lee Malvo has been ordered deported to
Jamaica, a federal government official said Wednesday.

The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Una James, 38, dropped
battered spouse claims that were part of a petition she withdrew seeking special
protection in the United States. An immigration judge then signed an order
deporting her to Jamaica.

The order was issued Tuesday during a closed hearing.

The official said James also dropped any plans to appeal, meaning she will be
sent back to Jamaica soon by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

James' lawyers from the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project would not comment,
citing confidentiality rules. The petition for special protection provided her
with more privacy, including the right to have the proceedings closed to the
public.

The decision was first reported by The Seattle Times

Malvo, 17, and John Allen Muhammad, 41, are suspected in the shootings of 18
people in Maryland, Virginia, Washington, D.C., Alabama, Georgia and Louisiana.
Their arrest at a rest stop in Maryland last month ended a three-week shooting
spree in the Washington area that left 10 people dead and three others seriously
wounded. Both are charged with capital murder.

James is considered a likely material witness in the trials of both men.

She and Malvo moved from Jamaica to Antigua in 1998. Investigators believe it
was there that Malvo met Muhammad, who had taken three of his children to live
with him on Antigua after losing a custody battle with his second wife in
Tacoma.

James initially told Border Patrol and immigration agents she and Malvo were
smuggled into the United States aboard a cargo ship.

Reports following the arrest of Malvo and Muhammad, however, indicate she bought
false identification papers from Muhammad and entered the country in late 2000
while her son remained in Antigua with Muhammad.

Malvo came to the United States two months later, bearing a passport that
identified him as Muhammad's son, according to Antiguan officials.

He joined his mother in Fort Myers, Fla., but ran away in October 2001 to join
Muhammad in Bellingham, where they lived at a homeless shelter as father and
son.

In December, James asked Bellingham police to help her get her son back. During
the investigation, police said Malvo's comments indicated he and his mother were
in the country illegally and officers summoned the Border Patrol, which arrested
the mother and son and then released them on $1,500 bail.

Investigators believe that Malvo almost immediately rejoined Muhammad and the
killing spree began soon afterward.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 6, 2002 Friday

Court refuses asylum for Chinese couple claiming abortion threats

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO (AP)


A couple who claimed they fled China to escape threats of forced sterilization
and abortion have been denied asylum by a federal appeals court.

An immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals had earlier said Xu
Ming Li and Xin Kui Yu were ineligible for asylum. In an opinion filed Thursday,
the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed.

One advocate said the decision could have troubling implications for refugees
who apply for asylum.

The couple's attorney, Michael Karr, said he would advise them to ask the full
court to review the decision by the three-judge panel. Karr declined to comment
further on the opinion.

Li and Yu, an unmarried couple, fled China in 1998 after officials gave Li a
forced pregnancy exam. At the exam, she was held down while a doctor examined
her ''private parts,'' Li, then 19, said according to court records.

As she yelled, kicked and demanded they release her, she was told she would
receive similar tests in the future, and if found pregnant, would be subject to
an abortion, Li said. Her boyfriend, Yu, then 21, could also be sterilized, she
said the officials told her.

''I was so scared. I was yelling. I was making noises,'' Li said, according to
court documents, adding that officials threatened her, ''For the rest of your
life you cannot have child.''

Her exam came after the two were observed spending time together until early
hours of the morning, and a man in their village told Li her relationship with
Yu was ''shameful,'' she said. Li told him to stop interfering, and that she
planned to have many babies with her boyfriend.

After the exam, the couple went to the village's family planning department and
applied for a marriage certificate, but were told they did not meet the minimum
marriage age requirements -- 20 for females, 22 for males.

Li and Yu decided to marry anyway, but a few months later heard there was an
order for their arrest. They fled to San Francisco, where they claimed they were
United States citizens. They later admitted they were citizens of China.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service sought to send them back to China,
but Li and Yu applied for asylum. Karr said Li was persecuted because she
resisted a ''coercive population control program'' by the Chinese government.

Li was turned down by an immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals
because she failed to demonstrate she had been persecuted in China, or that she
had a well-founded fear of persecution, according to court documents. Justice
Department spokesman Jorge Martinez declined to comment on the case.

In its opinion, the 9th Circuit agreed with the Board. It also denied Yu's
asylum petition.

''While one many condemn the way Xu was treated as inconsistent with human
rights, we cannot say that the record compels us to conclude that her treatment
was an 'extreme form of cruel and inhuman treatment,' or that she would likely
face such treatment on her return,'' Judge J. Clifford Wallace wrote in
Thursday's opinion.

Judge Richard Paez disagreed, saying Li qualified for asylum because she was
persecuted.

Philip Hwang, staff attorney at the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights in San
Francisco, which helps low-income refugees seeking asylum, said the decision
could make it more difficult for others. Hwang read the decision, but was not
involved in the case.

''The danger is that the court has somehow raised the bar on what you need to
show,'' Hwang said. ''If a woman who has gone through an invasive physical
examination of her private parts by strangers can't meet the standard for
persecution, what is that going to mean for the next refugee?''

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    December 11, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Changes to INS worry immigration experts

BYLINE: By Pankaj Paul; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 586 words


President Bush last month signed legislation to create the new Department of
Homeland Security, effectively signaling the end of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service as we know it. The changes are expected to take effect
sometime next year.

But the new consolidated federal agency of 170,000 employees has many
immigration experts concerned.

Judith Golub, a senior director at the American Immigration Lawyers Association
(AILA) in Washington, D.C., says that members of the organization are very
worried about the forthcoming changes.

''We think that they did not get it right,'' Golub said.

Golub and others said they hoped for more money and an assurance that there
would be clear coordination between the new immigration service arm of the
agency and the border enforcement. ''Unfortunately the reorganization does not
meet many of those conditions,'' she said. She's also concerned that there will
be no one person in charge of immigration policy.

Golub said it is still unclear how the reorganization will affect how immigrants
deal with the agency.

''If you have to go get an extension for a visa or some other basic immigration
function, how will you do it?'' she said.

Richard Hobbs, citizenship director for Santa Clara County, shares AILA's
concerns.

''I get the feeling that the actual services areas are going to be subjugated to
the security function for years to come,'' Hobbs said.

Some speculate that with the new focus on security, the government may be less
willing to make certain immigration information public. Under the plan,
disclosure of classified information by a federal employee would become a
criminal offense. According to AILA, the changes could have a chilling affect on
the ability to request information contained in the INS computer databases, as
well as on the dissemination of policy memos and other official information from
the immigration-related bureaus.

The INS has been historically underfunded, and the new bill does not provide for
any new funding. In addition, there's concern that the service functions of the
INS -- including visa and naturalization processing -- will become more
bureaucratic.

Here is a brief summary of the Homeland Security Act's immigration-related
provisions:

* The new director of border and transportation security will be responsible for
preventing the entry of terrorists into the country, securing borders, and
carrying out the immigration enforcement functions of the INS, such as the
Border Patrol. The director will also establish and administer rules governing
the granting of visas.

* The bureau in charge of border security will be the enforcement arm under the
new structure and will administer the new federal tracking system of foreign
students and exchange programs.

* The secretary of homeland security will ultimately be in charge of all laws
relating to the issuance or refusal of visas.

* The new Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services will be responsible for
the adjudication of all petitions that are now currently pending under the INS,
including asylum and refugee applications.

* The care and custody of unaccompanied alien children will now be handled by
the Office of Refugee Resettlement in the Department of Health and Human
Services.

* An office of civil rights within the Department of Homeland Security will be
responsible for reviewing and assessing abuses, including racial and ethnic
profiling, by employees and officials.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 19, 2002 Thursday

Hundreds protest new immigration policy at LA federal building

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES (AP)


The arrests this week of Middle Eastern immigrants who voluntarily registered
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service under a new federal program drew
hundreds to protest against what they were calling unjustified detentions.

The large number of Iranians among the detainees has angered many in Los
Angeles' large community of Iranian immigrants.

About 2,500 people demonstrated Wednesday outside the federal building in
Westwood, said Don Cox, a police spokesman.

At the rally, signs bore such sentiments as ''What Next? Concentration Camps?''
and ''Detain Terrorists Not Innocent Immigrants.''

Under the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System, men 16 and older
from countries considered high risk for terrorists were ordered to appear at INS
offices to be photographed and fingerprinted.

Those from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria were ordered to register by Monday
while temporary visitors from 15 other countries, including Saudi Arabia and
Pakistan, are required to register by Jan. 10, 2003.

Since Monday's deadline, however, several hundred people have been detained on
immigration violation charges.

At the rally, many protesters claimed their husbands, sons and brothers were
victims of government entrapment, that they were forced to register with
immigration officials and then were arrested for not having their papers in
order, which in some cases were caused by government backlog.

''These people were here legally, just waiting for their green card,'' said
Faraday Kioumehr, a rally organizer.

Immigration officials, however, said the detentions were justified.

''The only time the INS detains someone, independent of their ancestry and their
religion, is when they have violated immigration law,'' said Francisco Arcaute,
spokesman for the Los Angeles INS district. ''This means they have outstayed
their visas, or they are wanted by a law enforcement agency.''

The INS did not provide any figures on the number of people apprehended in
connection with the registration process.

Ramona Ripston, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Southern California, said her office has received reports that between 500 and
1,000 Middle Eastern immigrants have so far been detained in California.

''Some have already been sent to Arizona because the county jail can't fit
them,'' Ripston said. She said the ACLU of Southern California is considering a
lawsuit.

The detentions of Middle Eastern men and teens nationwide have already led to
lawsuits being filed in Cleveland and Houston.

The suits contend the INS is violating the intent of Congress' by detaining so
many immigrants when the order was to simply register them, Ripston said.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 1, 2003 Wednesday

Missing 12-year-old girl from LA found at Mexican border

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO (AP)


A 12-year-old girl kidnapped from Los Angeles last week by a man who had
befriended her was found Tuesday as she tried to enter the United States from
Mexico, immigration officials said.

Her 30-year-old kidnapper was apparently still in Mexico, said Los Angeles
police Officer Jack Richter.

Petra Ponce left a fast-food restaurant last Thursday with Geronimo Luevanos
Galvan, a man she had known for six months, police said. Galvan left a note with
the girl's brother saying he would take care of the youngster.

The girl's family had allowed her to develop a friendship with Galvan, who
visited the family home when the parents were home to chaperone, police said.

Because of her age, police treated the girl's disappearance as a kidnapping even
though she may have gone willingly.

Ponce was discovered alone, without identification, at the San Ysidro Port of
Entry, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said.

A check of her birth certificate and a medical examination confirmed the
identity of the child, according to a statement released by the INS.

Ponce will be returned to Los Angeles and placed in protective custody, Richter
said.

Galvan was reportedly driving a 1987 Honda Civic with the California license
plate 4XQP889.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 12, 2003 Sunday

Immigrants say brokers duped them, blame INS;
SEVERAL RECOUNT TALE OF BETRAYAL

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

LENGTH: 1597 words


H.D. Kim remembers the moment he realized his life in his adopted country was
about to crumble. Returning from South Korea last year, Kim was shocked when
immigration officials at San Francisco International Airport confiscated his
green card, told him it was fake and said he could be forced to leave the
country.

Kim and 274 other immigrants applied for green cards -- the official document
that is the first step toward citizenship -- years ago with the help of
immigration consultants they met at a church in Cupertino.

But rather than qualify for citizenship today, many are facing deportation as
they learn that they were part of a green-card scheme that involved a veteran
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) supervisor who accepted at least
$500,000 in bribes from the consultants.

In interviews with the Mercury News, several immigrants recounted how they came
to the United States legally, with dreams of building lives and businesses. Many
are now Bay Area professionals -- including architects, doctors and high-tech
engineers -- who insist the only mistake they made was to trust consultants they
believed would help them achieve the American Dream.

Their stories highlight a growing problem: unscrupulous immigration brokers who
exploit the complicated green-card process in order to prey on unsuspecting
immigrants. They also underscore the vulnerability of the INS and the system
that supervisor Leland Dwayne Sustaire fooled for more than a decade.

Sustaire, 54, of Valley Springs, avoided jail time by testifying in 1999 against
the consultants who bribed him. The four brokers, all from the Bay Area, are out
of prison after serving anywhere from four months to three years behind bars.

But the penalty phase is just beginning for the immigrants, as the government
tracks them down to launch deportation proceedings in immigration court in San
Francisco.

Like Kim, Santa Clara attorney Alex C. Park bristles at the suggestion that the
crime Sustaire and the consultants committed was victimless.

''The INS would like to characterize this as a fraud with the victims as willing
participants, and that could not be more wrong,'' said Park, who represents Kim,
as well as 94 other green-card recipients. ''To the victims, these were nothing
but legitimate.''

Most of the immigrants could be in the process of becoming citizens by now if
they had worked with legitimate immigration consultants.

''How is it that the INS, who's at fault, can call us and tell us we committed
fraud?'' said Kim, who came legally to the United States in 1987 on a temporary
work visa. ''Isn't it the other way around? The INS committed fraud on us.''

Government prosecutors and at least one of the convicted consultants have said
that the immigrants were unaware of the scam.

But the INS contends that Kim and the other immigrants knew what they were
getting into and were willing participants.

The INS, Sustaire and the four brokers declined to comment about the case.

Kim, an electronic assembly worker in Silicon Valley, regrets the day he joined
Young Kwang Presbyterian Church, a now-defunct Korean church in Cupertino.

It was at the church, on Bollinger Road in Cupertino, where Kim and many of the
other immigrants first learned about the immigration consulting services
provided by John Choe, his wife, Cherie, and his sister-in-law, Song Ja Byun, a
deacon at the church.

Kim said he placed complete trust in the Choes and Byun because of their church
affiliation.

''Mrs. Byun seemed to be a good Christian,'' he said. ''That's why I trusted
her.''

Byun and the Choes were known in Silicon Valley's tightly knit Korean-American
community for successfully obtaining legitimate green cards for immigrants.

''I didn't know many people here. I was new and everything I did -- where to
rent an apartment, buy a car, shop for groceries -- I consulted other people,
other church people,'' said another immigrant, who asked to be identified only
by his initials, H.K.

Like Kim, H.K. came to the United States more than 10 years ago on an H-1B visa.
He paid Byun $12,000 to help him apply for a green card. He now owns a
medical-instrument exporting business in San Jose. He and other immigrants say
they are only now discovering the details of the scheme hatched in 1986 between
Byun, the Choes and Sustaire.

The brokers, who knew the immigration status of many of the church's members,
found the customers. They helped them fill out complicated INS forms and
submitted them to Sustaire.

After bribing him with about half of what they charged the immigrants -- which
ranged from $6,000 to $15,000 -- Sustaire then used his authority at the INS to
request the green cards.

Daniel Lee, 43, a paralegal from Sunnyvale who ran an immigration consulting
firm, learned of Sustaire's connections and began working with him using a
similar scheme. Lee found many of his customers by advertising in local Korean
newspapers.

S. Hanh, 45, and his wife, Soon Hanh, 42, were living in Pleasanton when they
first came across one of Lee's advertisements in 1993.

They had arrived legally in the United States in 1986, after being married in
Fusan, South Korea. He was a student. She was a concert violinist. Both dreamed
of building a new life in America. Their plan seemed simple: finish school,
start a business, apply for green cards, and become U.S. citizens.

They paid Lee $35,000 to shepherd them through the green-card process in 1995. A
year later, they received their green cards.

But their dream of early retirement was recently thrown into doubt. Although
they have not received deportation notices, they worry they may be next.

''We're waiting for what's going to happen to our lives,'' said S. Hanh, 45, who
has since moved to Vacaville, where he and his wife own a dry-cleaning business.

''Our plan was to work hard, save, retire and then travel,'' said Soon Hanh.
''But everything is upside down.''

Park and the immigrants say part of what made the scam appear legitimate was
that they were asked to visit the San Jose INS office for interviews. But those
interviews were a charade to ward off doubtful immigrants, Sustaire testified in
court.

The consultants paid Sustaire in installments, bills stuffed in unmarked
envelopes. They met at nearby burger joints and once inside the INS office in
San Jose, according to court documents.

For their crimes, Sustaire and others received probation or minimum jail time.
But for the immigrants, many are preparing to abandon the lives they built here,
in some instances leaving family members behind. Some have put businesses and
career plans on hold.

Among them is a 24-year-old who graduated last year from the University of
Wisconsin with a degree in mechanical engineering.

He, his parents and sister came to San Jose in 1992 on tourist visas. He was a
high school student when his father applied for a green card with Lee's help.

''This has nothing to do with what I did because I did nothing wrong,'' said
Jung, who asked to be identified only by his first name.

He learned about the trouble with his green card last year while waiting for a
citizenship interview in New Jersey, where he now lives with his family.

''I had taken the citizenship test -- I passed -- and the INS lady congratulated
me,'' Jung said. ''I was waiting, and then she came back and told me there were
problems with my green card and told me to go home.''

The INS confiscated his green card, as they have done to several other
immigrants.

''I have job opportunities, but I can't take them,'' Jung said. ''What if they
decide to send me on a business trip abroad? What do I do then?''

Another immigrant, who asked to be identified by his initials, J.H., said he
paid Lee $45,000, in installments, to help him, his wife and his two children
obtain green cards. The 51-year-old owner of a construction company came to the
United States in 1991 with an H-1B visa.

Asked whether he felt betrayed, J.H. paused, then broke down into tears.

''I'm still suffering, but Daniel Lee and Leland Sustaire are free and done.
Where is the justice in that?'' he said. ''I am not illegal. I did not commit
fraud.''

Since he learned of his immigration status, J.H. has been unable to travel
abroad to conduct business. His son, a graduate of Northwestern University, has
canceled plans to attend graduate school on a scholarship.

''We don't know when we're going to be called to court and be asked to pack our
bags and told, 'You have to leave the United States,' '' J.H. said. ''I've
thought about the scenario of being deported, and I don't see a clear conclusion
because to go is not an option for us.''

It's still unknown whether all 275 immigrants will be deported. The INS refuses
to disclose how many have been contacted about the fraud. According to
attorneys, one immigrant was deported last year and is living in South Korea,
unable to return to the United States. Two others recently went to trial and are
awaiting rulings. At least 15 others have received deportation notices.

Since the Sustaire case surfaced, the INS has made changes in how it issues
green cards, said Sharon Rummery, an INS representative.

Where an adjudication supervisor like Sustaire once had the final word, now
entire files are sent for review by a supervisor at another INS office. No
longer can one rogue supervisor secure an immigrant's green card.

''I don't tie in the two together,'' Rummery said. ''But it's something we've
instituted since.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 16, 2003 Thursday

U.S. gives grace period for men who missed earlier immigration deadlines

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


Males age 16 and older from 18 countries who may have missed earlier deadlines
to register with U.S. immigration authorities will get another chance to do so
without fear of penalty, the government announced Thursday.

The decision to provide a grace period, from Jan. 27 to Feb. 7, comes as the
Immigration and Naturalization Service expanded the registration program to add
men and boys from Indonesia, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait and Bangladesh. The
post-Sept. 11 program has drawn strenuous protests as too harsh.

The grace period will apply to long-term male visitors from five countries --
Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria -- who missed a Dec. 16 deadline, according
to an INS notice published Thursday in the Federal Register.

The extra time also will apply to those from Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain,
Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United
Arab Emirates and Yemen who missed a Jan. 10 deadline.

INS officials believe fear of arrest or deportation, lack of knowledge about the
program and large crowds at local offices might have prevented many of the
affected people from registering earlier.

Inclusion of the five latest countries in the program will affect thousands more
long-term male visitors to the United States, the largest group since the
program began last fall, officials said.

Under a program enacted by Congress in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks on the United States, males 16 and older from 25 countries are required
to visit local INS offices to be photographed and fingerprinted and show certain
documents. Some countries included are considered potential havens for
terrorists.

Different deadlines have been imposed for different countries. The biggest group
to this point is the 14,000 men and boys from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan who must
register by Feb. 21.

Hundreds of people, mainly Iranians, were detained in Southern California last
month when the registration deadline arrived for the first group of visa
holders. That prompted angry demonstrations and a lawsuit against the federal
government.

Most were detained because their visas had expired and were released pending a
hearing on their cases.

Since those detentions, the Justice Department has embarked on a more intensive
campaign to justify the program and ensure that affected people get notified.
The registration is part of a broader INS plan to set up, by 2005, a
comprehensive system detailing who is entering, leaving and staying in the
United States.

Long-term visitors to the United States from Indonesia, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait
and Bangladesh will have from Feb. 24 to March 28 to register at local INS
offices. This does not affect U.S. citizens, diplomats, refugees or permanent
resident aliens -- those holding ''green cards.''

Most of those required to register are in the United States as students or
business travelers or are visiting relatives.

Immigration lawyers say many people are afraid to come forward, in part because
of an INS backlog that can snarl their paperwork and make them vulnerable to
deportation if their visas expire while they are awaiting a final outcome of
their cases.

''In light of the mass, warrantless arrests, which we believe to be illegal, it
is difficult for us to recommend, in good faith, for people to come forward to
register,'' Pete Schey, an attorney for several immigrants in California, said
earlier this month.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 16, 2003 Thursday PS1 EDITION

Extension may be granted for immigrant registration

BYLINE: By Matthai Chakko Kuruvila; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 698 words


As immigrants from five more Muslim countries are expected to be added today to
the list of those required to register with the INS, the agency will reportedly
grant a grace period for those who failed to check in over the past two months.

The grace period responds to concerns aroused during the first two rounds of
registrations, when many immigrants were arrested for registering late even
though they said they heard about the rule after the deadline.

Critics say unless the Immigration and Naturalization Service increases its
publicity about the registration requirements, more law-abiding immigrants will
be unfairly detained.

''While we welcome this short grace period, the fact is that if it's not
publicized, it's not worth anything,'' said Crystal Williams, a government
liaison with the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

According to the Federal Register, immigrants who are not permanent residents,
are from the listed countries and who failed to register during their allotted
time will now have a two-week grace period between Jan. 27 and Feb. 7. INS
officials could not confirm information on the Federal Register about the grace
period or the additional round of registrations.

Hundreds of immigrants were detained in Los Angeles as the first round of
registration finished in December, and at least 65 people were reportedly
detained at the San Francisco INS office last week. Many were detained for
having invalid visas or registering late.

Government officials and supporters say the registrations are an important step
in improving the nation's security in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. All of the Sept. 11 terrorists entered the country on tourist visas.

Critics say no terrorist would voluntarily register. They add that the
registration process unfairly targets those from Muslim countries. They also say
many people have been detained simply because notoriously backlogged INS
bureaucracy can't keep track of who has legal status and who doesn't.

Over the past few months, two separate sets of immigrant men and boys here on
visitor visas have had to go to INS offices to be fingerprinted, photographed
and interviewed about their activities and whereabouts as part of a Department
of Justice counterterrorism program. Immigrants from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia
began registering on Monday as they face a Feb. 21 deadline.

Today, immigrant men and boys over age 16 from Egypt, Bangladesh, Indonesia,
Kuwait and Jordan are expected to be added to the list, according to the Federal
Register, a compilation of the rules and notices issued by agencies in the
executive branch of the federal government. Those immigrants will be required to
register between Feb. 24 and March 28 or risk possible deportation.

Immigrant men and boys from Sudan, Syria, Libya, Iran or Iraq were required to
register by Dec. 16, and those from an additional 13 countries had to register
by Jan. 10.

The INS Web site on Wednesday had no indication either of the new registration
list or of the extension for the first two groups, and Bay Area INS officials
were oblivious to any new rules.

''I haven't heard anything about it,'' said Sharon Rummery, an INS spokeswoman
in San Francisco.

The consequences of not knowing can be dire.

Bay Area immigration attorneys said some of their clients, including some with
legal status, had been incarcerated for registering late when they had been
unaware of the requirement. Now, most face deportation hearings.

The INS has released few details about the detentions, other than to say that
400 people had been arrested in California. Immigration activists say the real
figure is higher.

The lack of information prompted activists to conduct an ad hoc accounting of
which special registrants entered the San Francisco INS office and who left.

Heba Nimr, an attorney with the INS Watch-La Raza Centro Legal, said that at
least 65 people had been detained at the San Francisco INS office during the
last week of the most recently completed registration round, which ended last
Friday. Fifty of those were arrested on the last day, Nimr said.

Contact Matthai Chakko Kuruvila at mkuruvila@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 18, 2003 Saturday PS1 EDITION

Lawyers applaud ruling in INS case;
IMMIGRANTS MAY REOPEN HEARINGS IF COURT DATE NOTICES LOST IN MAIL

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456 words


Bay Area immigration attorneys are hailing a recent federal appeals court ruling
that would allow immigrants to reopen their deportation cases if they argue that
they missed their own hearing because the notice was lost in the mail.

Thousands of immigrants each year are ordered to leave the country without being
present at their hearings because the notices for court dates arrive late or are
lost, said Ted Laguatan, a Daly City attorney who sought the ruling.

''I'm thrilled about this case because it protects the rights of aliens,'' he
said.

The court ruling, issued late last month by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in
San Francisco, is not expected to change the standard by which the Immigration
and Naturalization Service sends out notices for court dates -- via regular
mail. But it makes it easier for immigrants to seek new court dates by filing an
affidavit saying that they missed the original hearings because they didn't
receive the notice.

INS spokesman Francisco Arcaute declined to comment on the specifics of the
case, involving Regina Salta, a Filipina immigrant who lived in Los Angeles. But
he said the issue of lost notices underscores the importance of immigrants
making sure their current addresses are on file with the INS.

Salta, 54, who came to the United States from the Philippines in 1981 as a
college student, was ordered deported in the fall of 2000 while waiting to apply
to change her immigration status. By law, Salta is allowed to apply for an
adjustment because she has been living in the United States for more than 10
years, and she has a son who is an American citizen, Laguatan said.

A notice for a hearing date, on Aug. 29, 2000, arrived almost two months late.
And a copy of the notice never made it to Laguatan's office.

''It seems so grossly unfair because you're putting an incredible amount of
faith on the post office system,'' said Rodel Rodis, an immigration attorney in
San Francisco, who has clients in similar situations as Salta.

Laguatan said there's an assumption that when the INS sends a notice, it is
received by immigrants.

''It's a silly idea,'' he said. ''We all know from experience that we don't
often get stuff in the regular mail.''

In the past, immigration law required the INS to send notices for court dates by
certified mail. But the law changed a few years ago, allowing the agency to send
them by regular mail.

Until now, the burden of proving a notice was lost in the mail rested with the
immigrants facing deportation, a near impossible task, immigration lawyers said.

The ruling shifts the burden to the INS, said Thip Ark, an immigration attorney
who is familiar with the case.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 18, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Lawyers applaud INS case ruling;
IMMIGRANTS MAY RE-OPEN HEARINGS IF NOTICES WERE LOST IN THE MAIL

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 479 words


Bay Area immigration attorneys are hailing a recent federal appeals court ruling
that would allow immigrants to re-open their deportation cases if they argue
that they missed their own hearing because the notice was lost in the mail.

Thousands of immigrants each year are ordered to leave the country without being
present at their hearings because the notices for court dates arrive late or are
lost, said Ted Laguatan, a Daly City attorney who sought the ruling.

''I'm thrilled about this case because it protects the rights of aliens,'' he
said.

The court ruling, issued late last month by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in
San Francisco, is not expected to change the standard by which the Immigration
and Naturalization Service sends out notices for court dates -- via regular
mail. But it makes it easier for immigrants to seek new court dates by filing an
affidavit saying that they missed the original hearings because they didn't
receive the notice.

INS spokesman Francisco Arcaute declined to comment on the specifics of the
case, involving Regina Salta, a Filipina immigrant who lived in Los Angeles. But
he said the issue of lost notices underscores the importance of immigrants
making sure their current addresses are on file with the INS.

Salta, 54, who came to the United States from the Philippines in 1981 as a
college student, was ordered deported in the fall of 2000 while waiting to apply
to change her immigration status. By law, Salta is allowed to apply for an
adjustment because she has been living in the United States for more than 10
years, and she has a son who is an American citizen, Laguatan said.

A notice for a hearing date, on Aug. 29, 2000, arrived almost two months late.
And a copy of the notice never made it to Laguatan's office.

''It seems so grossly unfair because you're putting an incredible amount of
faith on the post office system,'' said Rodel Rodis, an immigration attorney in
San Francisco, who has clients in similar situations as Salta.

Laguatan said there's an assumption that when the INS sends a notice, it is
received by immigrants.

''It's a silly idea,'' he said. ''We all know from experience that we don't
often get stuff in the regular mail.''

In the past, immigration law required the INS to send notices for court dates by
certified mail. But the law changed a few years ago, allowing the agency to send
them by regular mail.

Until now, the burden of proving a notice was lost in the mail rested with the
immigrants facing deportation, a near impossible task, immigration lawyers said.

The ruling shifts the burden to the INS, said Thip Ark, an immigration attorney
who is familiar with the case.

''There's always been a presumption that people get what's mailed,'' she said.
''But the reality is people don't.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman @sjmercury.com or (408)-920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 25, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Deportations are halted for 3 Bay Area men;
WORKERS WITH VALID VISAS REGISTERED LATE WITH INS

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 696 words


Immigration officials will stop trying to deport three Bay Area high-tech
workers who were arrested and jailed in December after they showed up three days
late to register under a new anti-terrorism program for foreign visitors.

''I'm glad for them, but we never comment on individual cases,'' said Sharon
Rummery, the immigration service's San Francisco spokeswoman.

The three men, who had valid visas, were arrested at the San Jose INS office in
December and shipped out on a 30-hour, six-stop flight before authorities
finally found a place to imprison them in San Diego. After six days in custody,
the men were released in San Jose on Christmas Eve.

Their bizarre odyssey focused attention on the INS detentions, which eventually
included 1,200 people, most for overstaying their visas. Dozens from the Bay
Area were among them.

Attorneys representing the men and others familiar with the case said the INS
asked an immigration judge earlier this week to dismiss the deportation actions
against Ramsin Ziazadeh, 30, a senior design engineer for National Semiconductor
who lives in San Jose; Faisal Qaisi, 36, a software engineer for ATI Silicon
Valley Research who lives in Redwood City; and Faramarz Farahani, 42, an
Informatica employee who lives in San Jose.

''They're unbelievably happy,'' said Cynthia Lange, a Los Angeles attorney who
represents Qaisi, who is from Iraq, and Farahani, who is from Iran. Both men are
Canadian citizens.

''This is something that we were hoping for all along,'' she said.

Lange had challenged the detentions of the men, who have valid H1-B visas. Lange
said the men did not know about the Dec. 16 registration deadline because the
INS did not adequately publicize it. That deadline was recently extended to Feb.
7.

The registration program, adopted in response to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, is aimed at tracking visitors from nations that the Justice Department
believes have active terrorist networks. Men and boys older than 16, primarily
from Middle Eastern and African countries who are in the United States on
temporary visas, are required by the government to register with the immigration
service.

The Dec. 16 deadline applied to visitors from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan and
Libya.

Civil libertarians have criticized the program as a form of racial profiling
because it singles out visitors from mostly Muslim countries.

An INS judge in San Francisco is expected to issue a final ruling on the case of
the three Bay Area men next week, attorneys said.

Lange said Qaisi and Farahani did not want to comment on the dismissal.

Ronald Oye, a lawyer who represents Ziazadeh, also declined comment.

Ziazadeh, who is from Iran, did not return telephone messages. His father,
Michael Ziazadeh, said his son learned the news this week.

''He's very, very happy. You would be, too, if you were him,'' he said.

Michael Ziazadeh, who is an American citizen, had objected to the treatment of
his son ''like a criminal,'' echoing criticism from civil libertarians that the
government has criminalized visa violators.

Immigrant advocates and lawyers said a majority of those detained were in the
United States legally, with families who are American citizens or permanent
residents, and waiting to adjust their visa status. They said the INS backlog
had delayed their applications to renew visas.

''My fear is the red scare of the past is now the Middle Eastern and Muslim
scare today,'' said immigration attorney Banafsheh Akhlaghi, who represents
three dozen Bay Area men who were detained and are facing deportation for visa
violations.

Supporters of the registration program, including Bay Area groups that advocate
strict immigration controls, say the detention of visa violators is justified
and is an important step to gain control of U.S. borders.

The INS maintains that the program is an essential tool in the nation's fight
against terrorism. ''While America is an open and generous society that welcomes
visitors from foreign countries,'' Rummery said, ''it is essential that the
government know who is entering and exiting our borders.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 30, 2003 Thursday MO1 EDITION

GOP legislator seeks limits on use of Mexican ID cards;
MEASURE WOULD PREVENT FEDERAL AGENCIES FROM ACCEPTING THEM AS PROOF OF IDENTITY

BYLINE: By Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A top congressional proponent of restricting immigration Wednesday launched a
campaign to block the growing acceptance of identification cards issued by
Mexican consulates to immigrants in the United States.

The photo ID cards, issued to more than 1 million Mexican immigrants last year
alone, and accepted by many local governments, are helping the undocumented stay
in America, said Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo.

''We need to stop attempts by Mexico to obtain locally what they could not get
from the Congress -- that is, amnesty,'' he said.

Tancredo is introducing legislation today to bar federal agencies from accepting
the Mexican identity card, called matricula consular in Spanish. He recently
blocked a test program in San Francisco that allowed bearers to present the
cards for access to federal buildings there.

The future of the matricula is the subject of discussions between the Bush
administration and the Mexican government. The cards resemble a driver's
license, with ''Mexico'' printed prominently in the upper left-hand corner. In
addition to name and birth date, they bear the cardholder's local address in the
United States.

Asa Hutchinson, the Bush administration's new border and transportation security
chief, told reporters after his swearing-in Wednesday that Mexico is within its
rights as a sovereign state to issue identification cards to its citizens.

But Hutchinson said he had concerns about the potential for fraudulent use and
whether the cards themselves are tamperproof.

''We want to work with them to prevent fraud and abuse in our country,''
Hutchinson said. ''We just want to make sure the right protections are there.
These are practical problems that we have to work through.''

Tancredo said he is aware of cases in which criminals have used the cards, and
he questioned whether Mexican consulates in the United States adequately check
the background of applicants.

''This is a card with no use, except by those living illegally in the United
States,'' Tancredo said. ''It should not be accepted as proof of identification
by state, local or federal agencies.'' Estimates of the number of undocumented
Mexicans in the United States range from about 3 million to 5 million.

A Mexican Embassy official in Washington said the cards are secure as a means of
identification. Consulates verify the identity information given by applicants
and the cards have features that would make them difficult to counterfeit, said
Miguel Monterrubio.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 8, 2003 Saturday

Texas judge orders Jordanian deported

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: DALLAS (AP)


A federal judge has ordered the deportation of a Jordanian graduate student who
acknowledged he once considered becoming a suicide bomber if the United States
invades Iraq.

''I was looking at America as my enemy. If someone would have approached me and
asked me to do something against the country, I was willing to do it,'' Tahir
Ibrihim Aletwei said at his deportation hearing Friday.

Aletwei, 30, said he has changed his views and confessed in order to help U.S.
authorities better guard against people like him.

Immigration Judge D. Anthony Rogers ordered Aletwei deported by the end of next
week.

''I abhor the thought processes that you acknowledge,'' the judge said. ''The
issue we have in this nation since 9-11 is we want to act on the side of
caution, and it will be necessary to send you home.''

Aletwei, a student at the University of Texas at Arlington, arrived in the
United States in August 2001 as part of a Jordanian-sponsored student exchange
program. He is three months shy of earning a master's degree in software
engineering.

The FBI and INS have refused to say what led them to Aletwei, who was arrested
Jan. 31 and charged with violating provisions of the Immigration and Nationality
Act. Violators are subject to deportation.

Aletwei told the FBI he was involved in terrorism and that his desire to become
a martyr was sown in his home country.

''In my mind, I was doing a noble thing,'' said Aletwei, who had waived his
right to an attorney and was representing himself in court.

But Aletwei said he disclosed his thoughts to the FBI as a way to help them deal
with terrorism.

''I want people to understand just how we think because if they understand how
we think, they can prevent accidents like 9-11. I don't believe war or violence
can solve anything,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      February 10, 2003 Monday PS1 EDITION

Green cards for 5,000 refugees set;
SOUTHEAST ASIANS HAVE BEEN IN LIMBO

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words


Hundreds of Southeast Asian refugees in the Bay Area whose immigration status
has been in limbo for at least a decade may now apply to become permanent
residents under a new immigration program.

Scores of Vietnamese residents in recent weeks have flocked to local post
offices in San Jose to be among the first to mail their applications to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for one of 5,000 green cards that the
government will issue in the next three years.

These refugees fled from war in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos beginning in 1988.
But unlike other refugees, they were not required to wait in refugee camps
abroad until being allowed into the United States. Rather, they were granted
temporary or ''parolee'' status and, for more than a decade, have lived in the
United States without passports or the ability to travel outside the country
without prior permission from the INS.

Congress decided two years ago to end their limbo status, but it took another
year to write INS regulations. Last month, the INS began receiving the first
applications, paving the way for many of the refugees to eventually become U.S.
citizens.

No one knows how many of the 5,000 green cards will go to Bay Area residents,
but many people believe that residents of San Jose, home to the largest
concentration of Vietnamese in the country, will receive many of them.

''I'm very, very happy I can finally get a green card,'' said Lang Huynh, 40, a
part-time cook who lives in San Jose. The mother of a 15-year-old American
daughter said she plans to apply for citizenship after getting her green card.

Huynh came to the United States in 1993 from the Khanh Hoa province north of the
former Saigon, now Ho Chi Minh City -- along with her mother, father and younger
sister -- to join Huynh's brother, who escaped Saigon in 1975. They were allowed
into the country under the Orderly Departure Program, which gave relatives of
Vietnamese refugees the opportunity to reunite with family in the United States.

But because Huynh was over 18 -- she was 30 at the time -- she did not qualify
for refugee status as did her sister and parents. Her family was able to apply
for green cards years ago. But Huynh had to settle for a legal work permit,
which she has had to renew every year with the INS.

Loan Dao, a Cambodian community activist, said the 5,000 green cards that will
be issued won't be enough. It is estimated that as many as 20,000 refugees like
Huynh nationwide could qualify under the new program. Congress has said it will
consider issuing more green cards if the 5,000 limit is reached.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      February 10, 2003 Monday MO1 EDITION

Good news for refugees;
NEW PROGRAM TO OFFER 5,000 GREEN CARDS TO SOUTHEAST ASIAN IMMIGRANTS IN LIMBO

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 631 words


Hundreds of Southeast Asian refugees in the Bay Area whose immigration status
has been in limbo for at least a decade may now apply to become permanent
residents under a new immigration program.

Scores of Vietnamese residents in recent weeks have flocked to local post
offices in San Jose to be among the first to mail their applications to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for one of 5,000 green cards that the
government will issue in the next three years.

These refugees fled from war in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos beginning in 1988.
But unlike other refugees, they were not required to wait in refugee camps
abroad until being allowed into the United States. Rather, they were granted
temporary or ''parolee'' status and, for more than a decade, have lived in the
United States without passports or the ability to travel outside the country
without prior permission from the INS.

Congress decided two years ago to end their limbo status, but it took another
year to write INS regulations. Last month, the INS began receiving the first
applications, paving the way for many of the refugees to eventually become U.S.
citizens.

''This is good news,'' said Loc Vu, director of the Immigrant Resettlement and
Cultural Center in San Jose, a 22-year-old agency that has helped resettle tens
of thousands of refugees in the Bay Area.

No one knows how many of the 5,000 green cards will go to Bay Area residents,
but Vu and others believe that residents of San Jose, home to the largest
concentration of Vietnamese in the country, will receive many of them.

''I'm very, very happy I can finally get a green card,'' said Lang Huynh, 40, a
part-time cook who lives in San Jose. The mother of a 15-year-old American
daughter said she plans to apply for citizenship after getting her green card.

Huynh came to the United States in 1993 from the Khanh Hoa province north of the
former Saigon, now Ho Chi Minh City -- along with her mother, father and younger
sister -- to join Huynh's brother, who escaped Saigon in 1975. They were allowed
into the country under the Orderly Departure Program, which gave relatives of
Vietnamese refugees the opportunity to reunite with family in the United States.

But because Huynh was over 18 -- she was 30 at the time -- she did not qualify
for refugee status as did her sister and parents. Her family was able to apply
for green cards years ago. Huynh, however, had to settle for a legal work
permit, which she has had to renew every year with the INS.

If Huynh receives a green card under the new government program, she will also
be eligible for a permanent work permit that she would not have to renew every
year, said Danielle Sheahan, an INS spokeswoman in Washington, D.C.

The program also allows the new permanent residents to apply for naturalization
almost immediately after they receive their green card, Vu said. Normally, an
immigrant who gets a green card has to wait five years to apply for U.S.
citizenship.

Many Cambodians who have been in a similar limbo status also stand to benefit
from the program, said Perom Uch, vice president of the Cambodian American
Resource Agency, a Santa Clara-based non-profit cultural and educational group.
There are an estimated 10,000 Cambodians living in the Bay Area, Uch said.

But Loan Dao, a Cambodian community activist, said the 5,000 green cards that
will be issued won't be enough. It is estimated that as many as 20,000 refugees
like Huynh nationwide could qualify under the new program. Congress has said it
will consider issuing more green cards if the 5,000 limit is reached.

''Even though it alleviates some of the precarious situation that people are in,
it still leaves other people in limbo,'' Dao said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 10, 2003 Monday

Bay Area refugees may soon become permanent residents

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

LENGTH: 267 words


Hundreds of Southeast Asian refugees in the Bay Area whose immigration status
has been in limbo for at least a decade may now apply to become permanent
residents under a new immigration program.

Scores of Vietnamese residents in recent weeks have flocked to local post
offices in San Jose to be among the first to mail their applications to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for one of 5,000 green cards that the
government will issue in the next three years.

These refugees fled from war in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos beginning in 1988.
But unlike other refugees, they were not required to wait in refugee camps
abroad until being allowed into the U.S. Rather, they were granted temporary or
''parolee'' status and, for more than a decade, have lived in the U.S. without
passports or the ability to travel outside the U.S. without prior permission
from the INS.

Congress decided two years ago to end their limbo status, but it took another
year to write INS regulations. Last month, the INS began receiving the first
applications, paving the way for many of the refugees to eventually become U.S.
citizens.

''This is good news,'' said Loc Vu, director of the Immigrant Resettlement and
Cultural Center in San Jose, a 22-year-old agency that has helped resettle tens
of thousands of refugees in the Bay Area.

No one knows how many of the 5,000 green cards will go to Bay Area residents,
but Vu and others believe that San Jose, home to the largest concentration of
Vietnamese in the country, will receive the lion's share.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    September 25, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Sailor returned to U.S.;
MAN IS RESCUED BY THE NAVY AFTER MONTHS ADRIFT AT SEA

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES (AP)


A boater rescued by a Navy warship after being adrift in the Pacific Ocean for
more than three months returned to California on Tuesday and was held
temporarily by U.S. immigration officials.

Richard Van Pham of Long Beach was detained at Los Angeles International Airport
for most of Tuesday after arriving on a flight from Guatemala, said Francisco
Arcaute, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Arcaute said Van Pham, 62, was released after INS officials verified that he is
a legal permanent resident.

"We have no issues with this gentleman," Arcaute said. "We just wanted to verify
Mr. Van Pham's status."

Van Pham, a native of Vietnam, then was turned over to Travelers Aid, an
organization which helps stranded travelers.

Van Pham was found aboard his damaged sailboat a week ago by the San Diego-based
frigate McClusky and turned over to U.S. officials in Guatemala on Sunday, Navy
officials said.

"He's a tough old bird," Cmdr. Gary Parriott, the McClusky's skipper, told the
San Diego Union-Tribune. "I'm not sure I would have fared as well as he did."

Officials said the Long Beach man survived by catching fish, seabirds and
turtles for food and collecting rainwater. Despite losing about 40 pounds and
being heavily suntanned, Van Pham was in good condition when found.

Van Pham was dropped off Sunday in Puerto Quetzal, Guatemala, when the frigate
stopped for a port visit. The McClusky's crew collected about $800 to pay for
his plane trip home.

Van Pham apparently set sail from Long Beach for a short cruise in his 26-foot
sailboat, Sea Breeze. On his way to Catalina, a storm broke his mast. His
outboard motor and two-way radio also failed.

On Sept. 17, Van Pham was spotted 275 miles southwest of Costa Rica.

"This is an amazing story of survival," said Coast Guard Chief Warrant Officer
Lance Jones. "But it also shows the importance of filing a float plan with
friends or family."

Navy officials said the most poignant moment came when Van Pham left the Sea
Breeze. Unable to fix the sailboat, Van Pham approved its sinking. Crew members
torched the Sea Breeze, sinking it in 8,700 feet of water.

"He waved goodbye to his sailboat," said Petty Officer 3rd Class Joseph Slaight.
"He was upset . . . and said he was going to miss it."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 2, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Muslim detainee testifies in open immigration hearing

BYLINE: Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 491 words


A Muslim activist held for nine months because of suspected links to terrorism
testified at an open immigration hearing in Detroit on Tuesday, the first
substantive public session involving a case deemed of "special interest" to the
investigation into the Sept. 11 attacks.

The hearing occurred only after a federal judge ordered the Justice Department
last month to give the activist, Rabih Haddad, a new bond hearing or release
him. The hearing, which was continued until later this month, remained open
until the end of the day, when the government introduced an FBI declaration that
has been described as the main evidence against Haddad.

Civil liberties advocates described the public hearing as a victory in their
efforts to protect the rights of immigrants detained after the Sept. 11 attacks.
However, even as Haddad was appearing in open court, Attorney General John
Ashcroft was issuing a blunt defense of the government's anti-terrorism tactics
Tuesday, exhorting the nation's U.S. attorneys to "use every weapon in the
criminal justice arsenal" to prevent terrorism.

"Our critics seem to think that business-as-usual -- doing what we have done
before, and nothing more -- would keep America safe from terrorists," Ashcroft
said during a speech in New York. "History instructs us that caution and
complacency are not defenses of freedom; caution and complacency are a
capitulation before freedom's enemies -- the terrorists."

Ashcroft did not mention Haddad. But he said the government "cannot risk
damaging the security of the United States by publicizing the names of those
detained in our investigation."

The juxtaposition of Ashcroft's speech with Haddad's hard-fought public hearing
seemed to crystalize the battle between the Bush administration and civil
liberties advocates over the treatment of hundreds of Sept. 11 detainees. The
government argues that expanded law enforcement measures, including secret
immigration hearings, are essential to counter terrorists while critics argue
that the measures erode constitutionally protected freedoms.

Also Tuesday, a federal magistrate in Seattle ordered that an American Muslim
who allegedly sought to establish a terrorist training camp in Oregon be held
without bail. The judge, John Weinberg, said the government had produced
convincing evidence that James Ujaama, who was arrested July 22 in Denver, was
linked to terrorism.

Haddad, 41, is the co-founder of Global Relief Foundation, an Illinois-based
charity. On Dec. 14, Haddad was arrested at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich., and
Global Relief's assets were frozen after the government alleged that the charity
helped finance terrorism. Haddad and others connected to Global Relief have
denied the allegations.

Tuesday's hearing appeared to shed little new evidence against Haddad, but it
was a milestone nonetheless. Since the attacks, hundreds of "special interest"
immigration hearings have been closed.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 8, 2002 Tuesday

Appeals court says deportation hearings can be closed

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA (AP)


A federal appeals court ruled Tuesday that immigration hearings may be closed by
the government, dealing a blow to media organizations who sought access to
hearings involving foreigners swept up in the nation's terrorism investigation.

The three-judge panel of the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed a lower
court ruling and said the attorney general has the right to close the hearings
for reasons of national security. Justice Department lawyers had argued that
national security would be threatened if reporters and others were allowed to
attend.

For nearly a year, reporters and members of the public have been barred from
deportation hearings for hundreds being held in the nation's terrorism
investigation.

Media organizations and civil rights groups sued to reopen the hearings, or to
allow them to be closed only if the government could persuade a judge that
secrecy was necessary.

The two-judge majority disagreed, however, writing that the types of deportation
hearings being closed were "extremely narrow" and that the attorney general is
in a better position than immigration judges to determine their importance to
national security. U.S. Circuit Judge Anthony J. Scirica dissented.

Two publications in New Jersey, the New Jersey Law Journal and the North Jersey
Media Group, which publishes the Herald News of West Paterson, challenged the
rules in March. The American Civil Liberties Union argued the case on behalf of
the media.

A federal judge in Newark ruled in May that the secrecy rules were too broad,
and said the government could only close hearings on a case-by-case basis. The
ruling was stayed while the case was appealed.

The 3rd Circuit's decision only applies to immigration hearings in its coverage
area -- New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and the Virgin Islands. The
government's secrecy rules also have been challenged elsewhere.

In a similar case in Michigan, the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the
Justice Department in August to hold a new, open detention hearing for a
Lebanese man who co-founded an Islamic charity suspected of funneling money to
terrorists.

Unlike criminal or civil trials, immigration hearings are not always public. The
Justice Department had argued that while detention hearings have traditionally
been open, a 40-year-old law allowed judges to exclude the public if doing so
was in the nation's best interest.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      October 15, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Demos seize immigrant issue after Bush abandons effort

BYLINE: Nick Anderson Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress and the White House have abandoned a bipartisan effort to loosen
immigration law this year, prompting Democrats to seize on the issue in a bid to
lure Latino voters in the upcoming midterm elections.

The quiet death of the immigration legislation comes even though President Bush
had urged passage of a bill to make it easier for certain illegal immigrants to
apply for legal residency.

Over the last year and a half, versions of the legislation have passed twice in
the House and once in the Senate.

The legislation was attacked by opponents as an amnesty in disguise and
supported by proponents as a modest measure to help keep hard-working immigrant
families together in the United States. While broader reforms were broached last
year by the Bush administration, this legislation was the only significant
measure easing immigration rules to reach a floor vote in this Congress.

But advocates and foes alike say the push to grant protections to a narrowly
defined group of illegal immigrants stalled after the terrorist attacks of Sept.
11, 2001, caused the government to rethink the connections between immigration
policy and national security.

"Had it not been for Sept. 11," said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, a group that favors restrictions, the
legislation "probably would have gone through." Now, he said, the proposal "is
pretty much dead for the remainder of this session of Congress."

Bush twice tried to breathe life into the legislation that would extend a
now-lapsed provision of immigration law known as 245(i). The extension would
have allowed some undocumented immigrants who appear eligible for permanent
residency to apply for legalization from within the United States.

Under current law, such immigrants are required to return to their native
countries to make the application, where they can be forced to wait years for
permission to emigrate. In practice, this requirement is a powerful deterrent
for applicants because few want to risk being shut out of the country for as
long as a decade.

In early 2001, after the 245(i) program was resurrected for a few months under
legislation enacted at the end of the Clinton administration, Bush sought to
extend it as a matter of fairness to some would-be immigrants who had missed the
deadline.

In March, Bush pushed the idea again as part of a diplomatic initiative before
he made a visit to Mexico. The House, by a vote of 275-137, again passed a
narrowly crafted measure. But Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., and others then
objected to relaxing immigration rules on national security grounds. Many
Democrats, on the other hand, said the 245(i) program should be made permanent
law.

Efforts to bridge the differences between the House and Senate died, and the
White House made no protest.

Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, a group that
favors easing restrictions said many advocacy groups have now turned their
attention to enacting broader reforms -- in the next Congress.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 16, 2002 Wednesday PS1 EDITION

two lines two lines

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 603 words


Many of you have asked about the proposed changes to the tourist visa policy
that would restrict most foriegners to 30-day visits and limit the conditions
for which an extension could be granted.

Immigration officials say that no changes have been made to the tourist visa
policy, which currently allows for a maximum initial visit of one year. There is
no way to determine when, or if, any of the proposed changes would be
implemented, said Sharon Rummery, a local spokeswoman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Under the plan, INS inspectors would determine how long a visitor could stay,
based on the amount of time typically needed to accomplish the purpose of the
trip. In most cases, that would be 30 days.

Q My wife is a Canadian citizen who has a green card and has lived in California
for nearly 50 years. She is 75 years old and is also legally blind and suffers
from dementia. Some time ago, her purse, which contained her Social Security and
green cards, was stolen. The Social Security administration says it will not
issue her a new card until she gets her green card. What's the easiest way for
her to replace her green card?

A She can apply for a new green card using Form I-90. Mail in the completed form
with photos and fees and a doctor's letter stating your wife's medical and
emotional condition, Rummery said. The agency will make an appointment for your
wife at the San Jose office. If she's unable to visit the office, the INS can
send an officer to your home.

Q I am a U.S citizen. Can I sponsor my sister and her family in Vietnam to come
here to live in the United States? Is it possible for me to sponsor my
12-year-old niece only?

A As an American citizen, you can sponsor your sister, Rummery said. But expect
a long wait. Siblings of citizens who petitioned for residency about 12 years
ago are just now receiving their immigrant visas.

You cannot sponsor your niece, but your sister could once she's here legally. By
that time, your niece likely would be an adult and, if she's unmarried, her
mother could sponsor her. Unmarried adult children of legal residents who
petitioned for them in February 1994 are now being admitted. Your sister could
also petition her husband once she entered as a legal resident. Spouses of
permanent residents who petitioned them in July of 1997 are now being admit-ted.

Q I became a naturalized U.S. citizen as a child. But I have no evidence of my
citizenship. I have a U.S. passport, although I would like to obtain a permanent
certificate that does not expire. Is that possible?

A. Yes. File a N-600 form at your local INS office to receive a naturalization
certificate. The fee is $185. You can print the form from the INS web site,
www.ins.gov, or call(800) 375-5283 and ask them to mail a form to you.

Make sure you confirm that your local INS office has jurisdiction in your area.
People who live in Fremont, for example, need to report to the San Francisco
office even though they're closer to San Jose. The San Jose office serves four
counties: Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, San Benito and Monterey.

Q I got my Green Card in 1985. To apply for citizenship, you need to provide
details of all trips outside the U.S. that were more than 24 hours. I have made
several trips overseas over the last 17 years and am unable to remember them
all. Is there a way out?

A Rummery says you should reconstruct your travel as best you can. The INS will
examine the last five years of travel, three years, if you're the spouse of a
U.S. citizen.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.(P)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 16, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Policy on tourist visas remains unchanged

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 605 words


Many of you have asked about the proposed changes to the tourist visa policy
that would restrict most foreigners to 30-day visits and limit the conditions
for which an extension could be granted.

Immigration officials say that no changes have been made to the tourist visa
policy, which allows for a maximum initial visit of one year. There is no way to
determine when, or if, any of the proposed changes would be implemented, said
Sharon Rummery, a local spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Under the plan, INS inspectors would determine how long a visitor could stay
based on the amount of time typically needed to accomplish the purpose of the
trip. In most cases, that would be 30 days.

Stolen green card

Q My wife is a Canadian citizen who has a green card and has lived in California
for nearly 50 years. She is 75 years old and is also legally blind and suffers
from dementia. Some time ago, her purse, which contained her Social Security and
green cards, was stolen. The Social Security administration says it will not
issue her a new card until she gets her green card. What's the easiest way for
her to replace her green card?

A She can apply for a new green card using Form I-90. Mail in the completed form
with photos and fees and a doctor's letter stating your wife's medical
condition, Rummery said. The agency will make an appointment for your wife at
the San Jose office. If she is unable to visit the office, the INS can send an
officer to your home.

Q I am a U.S citizen. Can I sponsor my sister and her family in Vietnam to come
here to live in the United States? Is it possible for me to sponsor my
12-year-old niece only?

A As an American citizen, you can sponsor your sister, Rummery said, but expect
a long wait. Siblings of citizens who petitioned for residency about 12 years
ago are just now receiving their immigrant visas.

You cannot sponsor your niece, but your sister could once she is here legally.
By that time, your niece probably would be an adult and, if she's unmarried, her
mother could sponsor her. Unmarried adult children of legal residents who
petitioned for them in February 1994 are now being admitted. Your sister could
also petition for her husband once she entered as a legal resident. Spouses of
permanent residents who petitioned for them in July 1997 are now being admitted.

Q I became a naturalized U.S. citizen as a child. But I have no evidence of my
citizenship. I have a U.S. passport, although I would like to obtain a permanent
certificate that does not expire. Is that possible?

A Yes. File a N-600 form at your local INS office to receive a naturalization
certificate. The fee is $185. You can print the form from the INS Web site
(www.ins.gov) or call (800) 375-5283 and ask them to mail a form to you.

Make sure you confirm that your local INS office has jurisdiction in your area.
People who live in Fremont, for example, need to report to the San Francisco
office even though they are closer to San Jose. The San Jose office serves four
counties: Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, San Benito and Monterey.

Q I got my green card in 1985. To apply for citizenship, you need to provide
details of all trips outside the United States that were more than 24 hours. I
have made several trips overseas over the last 17 years and am unable to
remember them all. Is there a way out?

A Rummery says you should reconstruct your travel as best you can. The INS will
examine the last five years of travel, or three years if you're the spouse of a
U.S. citizen.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 19, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

INS deports 11 Cambodians for felonies while refugees

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 384 words


Eleven Cambodians who came to the United States as refugees were deported this
week in the latest round of deportations of Southeast Asian refugees convicted
of felonies.

Among the group is an unidentified San Francisco resident and Kim Ho Ma, the
25-year-old convicted killer from Seattle who sued against "indefinite
detentions" and won his case in the Supreme Court.

Leaders in the Bay Area's Cambodian community and legal advocates condemned the
deportations, but INS officials said they would continue.

"Under the law, we will continue to seek the repatriation of other Cambodian
nationals who have violated their right to remain in the U.S.," said Karen
Kraushaar, an Immigration and Naturalization Service official.

Those deported Oct. 14 include residents from Atlanta, New Orleans, Detroit,
Seattle, St. Paul, Minn., and Salt Lake City who were convicted of various
crimes including drug trafficking, criminal sexual assault, theft and burglary,
an INS official said.

In June, six Cambodians were deported. That group included an unidentified
resident from Stockton.

A change in immigration laws in 1996 allowed the INS to deport non-citizens
convicted of serious crimes. The INS has ordered about 1,400 Cambodians
deported.

But because the United States did not have diplomatic relations with Cambodia,
those ruled deportable could not be returned until an agreement was reached with
Cambodia in May.

As a result, thousands of resident immigrants like Kim Ho Ma were detained
indefinitely. Ma, who fled the Khmer Rouge regime when he was 2, sued the INS.
Convicted of manslaughter in connection with a 1995 gang slaying, he served two
years of a three-year sentence. He spent another year in INS detention.

"It pained him a lot, that he's created a lot of pain for the people he's
leaving behind," said Jay Stansell, the Seattle public defender who represented
Ma in the Supreme Court case.

Most of the refugees scheduled to be deported arrived in the United States in
the 1980s as young children, victims of the brutal Khmer Rouge, under whose rule
about 1 million Cambodians were killed.

"This is double punishment," said Loan Dao, a member of a Bay Area group
fighting the deportations.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 18, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEPORTATION EFFORTS MOUNT;
GOVERNMENT MOVING FAST IN EFFORTS TO DEPORT HUNDREDS OF BAY AREA KOREANS CAUGHT
IN GREEN CARD SCAM, DESPITE PROTESTS FROM LEGISLATORS WHO WANT FURTHER
INVESTIGATION.

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 595 words


The federal government has stepped up efforts to deport hundreds of Bay Area
Korean immigrants caught in a green card scam involving a former San Jose
immigration official, despite pressure from local legislators and community
leaders to suspend the proceedings until an investigation is conducted.

In recent weeks, at least 78 of the estimated 265 immigrants have received
notices for deportation trials in the fall, according to a lawyer representing
95 of the immigrants. Just two months ago, only 17 had received such notices.

"It's scary," said Alex Park, the Santa Clara attorney who represents many of
the Korean immigrants. "What it tells me is the government is proceeding at a
rapid pace."

Last month, the fourth immigrant to go to trial, a San Jose resident, lost his
bid to remain in the United States. Park said he is appealing the case.

Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the San Francisco office of the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services, declined to say whether all 265 immigrants
have been scheduled for deportation hearings.

"Legislators have asked us to look at these cases, and that's what we've done,"
Rummery said. "We're really looking into whether people have the legal right to
remain in the U.S., or if they qualify today for a green card."

In January, Reps. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, and Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, asked
U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft and the BCIS to suspend deportation
proceedings while individual reviews of the cases were conducted. A month later,
state Assemblyman Manny Diaz, D-San Jose, joined a number of immigrant community
leaders in a similar request.

"He's not happy at all about this," Ruben Pulido, Honda's press secretary, said
Thursday. "It seems the BCIS is ready to deport these immigrants."

Next week, Honda will request a meeting with BCIS officials and ask Congress to
conduct an oversight hearing on the cases, Pulido said.

"The congressman wants to bring a national spotlight on this issue," he said.

In a series of articles in January, the Mercury News detailed the plight of the
mostly Korean immigrants who were issued fraudulent green cards by Leland Dwayne
Sustaire, a former veteran supervisor with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, now known as the BCIS.

Sustaire admitted in federal court that he took as much as $500,000 in bribes
from immigration consultants in exchange for the green cards. He avoided jail
time by providing government prosecutors with a list of at least 265 green cards
that he said he issued in exchange for bribes.

Many of the immigrants -- Bay Area business owners, research scientists, church
pastors and high-tech professionals -- said they did not know of the bribe
scheme between Sustaire and the consultants they hired to help them obtain green
cards. The scheme began in 1986 and continued for 12 years.

Park said his clients entered the country legally and qualified for the
permanent residency they sought.

H. Ahn, a Palo Alto mother of two children, received her trial notice earlier
this month. She came to the United States from Seoul, Korea, in 1988 with her
husband, a foreign student at the time. The couple, who own a successful retail
business in the Bay Area, asked not to be identified.

Their children, ages 14 and 11, were born in Boston, and Ahn worries about their
future if she is deported.

"They're American kids," Ahn, 39, said. "Do I take them to Korea? How will they
adjust? Do I leave them behind? Who's going to take care of them? If I leave
them here, will I be able to visit them?"

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Lofgren
PHOTO: Honda

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 23, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAKE IMMIGRATION CONSULTANT FACES THEFT CHARGES

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 232 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE


A San Jose man claiming to be an immigration consultant was arrested Tuesday and
charged in Santa Clara County Superior Court with six counts of grand theft.
Carlos Fernandez, 40, is accused of taking more than $18,000 from six Latino
immigrants in exchange for promises to secure legal immigration status for them
and their families.

Fernandez, who is being held in Santa Clara County Jail in lieu of $75,000 bond,
told the victims he worked in a law office in Sunnyvale, according to Deputy
District Attorney Martha Donohoe. But he is not an attorney and did not post a
$50,000 bond, as required by the state for practicing immigration consultants,
she said.

Fernandez met the victims, who did not receive any of the services promised, at
parties or children's soccer games in the South and East Bay, where he coached a
boys team, Donohoe said. In August, some of the victims came together as a group
and presented their complaints to the Consumer Protection Unit in Donohoe's
office.

Donohue said Fernandez falsely claimed to the victims that he had contacts with
various government agencies, including the former Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the Social Security Administration, and the state Department of Motor
Vehicles.

Investigators are seeking other victims in the Fernandez case. Victims should
call investigator Jorge Perez at (408) 792-2745.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Regional Roundup
New From Around The Bay Area

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 23, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SON OF INS: NEW AGENCY IS STILL RUTHLESS;
REPS. HONDA AND LOFGREN MUST PRESS TO HELP KOREAN VICTIMS OF GREEN CARD FRAUD
WHO FACE DEPORTATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 429 words


THE son of the Immigration and Naturalization Service is proving to be much like
its father: cavalier in recognizing immigrants' rights, ruthlessly efficient in
denying them.

The first test of the new agency's fairness involves 265 Korean immigrants who
were entrapped by government fraud. Instead of treating them as the crime
victims they are, the new INS is rushing to deport them -- ignoring the requests
of local members of Congress and other pleas for decency.

The Koreans, many of them living in the Bay Area, were apparently unwitting
victims of a scam in which an INS supervisor took $500,000 in bribes from
immigration consultants seeking green cards for clients. Because the green cards
were issued fraudulently, the new Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services
has ruled the immigrants are not legal permanent residents and therefore should
be deported -- a bizarre position that punishes the Koreans for others'
criminality.

The victims include engineers, scientists and families who have lived in America
more than a decade. A consultant testified that most of them didn't know that
the thousands of dollars they paid in fees ended up as bribes. Most were legally
entitled to green cards. Government prosecutors acknowledged this was the case.

The four Korean consultants, who operated out of a now-defunct church in
Cupertino, served jail terms. To save his own skin, the INS supervisor, Leland
Sustaire, testified against them in exchange for house arrest and a fine.
Sustaire also admitted destroying records, making it harder for the immigrants
to establish their innocence.

Given Sustaire's malfeasance, the burden should be on the government to prove
that the Koreans were aware of the fraud. Instead, the immigration bureau has
presumed culpability.

San Jose's representatives in Congress, Mike Honda and Zoe Lofgren, asked
immigration officials to give each case a careful review. Instead, the agency
appears to have expedited them, scheduling deportation hearings for at least 78
of the immigrants.

Honda and Lofgren also sought a meeting with Attorney General John Ashcroft; he
ignored them. Now that the INS has been moved to the Department of Homeland
Security, they want to meet with its head, Tom Ridge. They must not take no --
or no response -- for an answer.

Too often, the old INS ran roughshod over immigrants' rights. The case of the
Koreans was an opportunity for the new Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services to show that it's different. So far, it looks like the same bad wine in
a new bottle.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
The opinion of the Mercury News

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
A victim of the green card fraud breaks down in his attorney's office in
january.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 30, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUSTICES UPHOLD LIMITED RIGHTS FOR IMMIGRANT FELONS;
S.J. MAN'S DEPORTATION CASE

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 845 words


A narrowly divided U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday used the case of a San Jose man
to limit the rights of legal immigrants, ruling that non-citizens who have
committed serious crimes can be held without bail as they await deportation
hearings.

The court's 5-4 decision upheld strict provisions of a 1996 immigration reform
law that requires mandatory detention of legal permanent residents of the United
States who have been convicted and have served time for any number of drug
crimes and other "aggravated" felonies.

The ruling made it clear that immigrants -- even those living in the United
States legally -- are subject to harsher punishment than American citizens.

"I'm really disappointed with the result, not just for me, but for a lot of
other people," said Hyung Joon Kim, 25, a San Jose State University student
whose case was at the center of the national legal dispute. "Being able to get
bail should be a constitutional right."

Immigrant advocates and civil libertarians have argued that detention without a
bail hearing violated the due-process rights of immigrants. Some said Tuesday's
decision will have devastating consequences for permanent residents who are
detained, including making it harder for detainees to seek legal representation
from behind bars.

But the court ruled that when such people are temporarily released from custody,
they could continue to commit crimes.

"We hold that Congress, justifiably concerned that deportable criminal aliens
who are not detained continue to engage in crime and fail to appear for their
removal hearings in large numbers, may require that persons such as respondent
be detained for the brief period necessary for their removal proceedings," Chief
Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote in the majority opinion.

An estimated 75,000 immigrants have been detained under the law, which was
signed by former President Clinton. It does not apply to those who have been
detained under the USA Patriot Act that Congress passed after the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

Kim, who was born in South Korea, came to the United States with his family when
he was 6 years old. At 18, he was convicted of burglary. A year later, he was
convicted of petty theft and served 2 1/2 years in prison. After his release
from prison in February 1999, the Immigration and Naturalization Service held
him for six months while the government prepared its deportation case against
him.

Kim, whose mother is a U.S. citizen, challenged his detention, contending that
the no-bail rule of the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act violated his rights to due process. A federal court and the
San Francisco-based 9th Circuit Court of Appeals sided with Kim, and he was
released on $5,000 bond.

The Bush administration appealed, and argued that immigrants such as Kim have
lost their right to remain in the country because they committed serious crimes
before they became citizens.

In his opinion Tuesday, Rehnquist was joined by Justices Anthony M. Kennedy,
Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, who found no
constitutional requirement for a bond hearing for detained immigrants.

Justices David H. Souter, John Paul Stevens, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G.
Breyer dissented.

"This case is not about the national government's undisputed power to detain
aliens in order to avoid flight or prevent danger to the community," Souter
concluded. "The issue is whether that power may be exercised by detaining a
still-lawful permanent resident alien when there is no reason for it and no way
to challenge it."

An attorney who filed a brief in support of the government said the ruling would
increase public safety.

"There are plenty of studies that show when alien felons are released from
prisons, pending deportation, the majority of them get rearrested within one
year," said Richard A. Samp, chief counsel for the Washington Legal Foundation,
a public-interest law firm.

But an attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union, which represented Kim
before the 9th Circuit and the Supreme Court, said it was "irrational and
unfair" for the government to imprison even those who are not a flight risk or
who are not a danger to society.

"This case was never about a challenge to the government's power to detain
individuals," said Liliana M. Garces, the ACLU attorney. "It was about the
specific procedures that they had to provide once they resorted to that very
extreme measure."

Another ACLU attorney who represents Kim said her client would now challenge his
eligibility for deportation on the ground that the property crimes for which he
was convicted were not the "aggravated" crimes of "moral turpitude" to which the
law refers.

Kim, who expects to receive his bachelor's degree in business administration in
about three semesters, believes that the Supreme Court made its ruling based on
the political climate in a post-Sept. 11 world.

"Things right now aren't really pro-immigrant," he said. "I think that was a
huge factor in the decision."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 15, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DISPUTE OVER DEPORT PROCESS;
U.S. APPEALS COURT TO HEAR LAWSUIT CHALLENGING THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S PRACTICE
OF DENYING IMMIGRANTS' APPEALS WITHOUT ANY LEGAL EXPLANATION. THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT ARGUES THAT QUICKER DECISIONS HELP FIGHT TERRORISM.

BYLINE: MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 807 words


California's federal appeals court will hear arguments today about whether a
U.S. Justice Department board can continue to deny appeals of deportation orders
for immigrants without any legal explanation.

The hearing, which includes a Bay Area case, centers on an issue that has arisen
in other federal appeals courts, with the Justice Department's power being
upheld each time. But the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which covers the
western United States and hears more immigration cases than any other, has
historically favored civil rights more than other jurisdictions, and an adverse
ruling here could set up a potential showdown in the U.S. Supreme Court.

Though unexplained denials have been used for four years, the procedure plays an
increasing role in the post-Sept. 11 Justice Department, which believes quicker
appeals decisions help fight terrorism.

But the practice doesn't affect just suspected terrorists. It affects
asylum-seekers fleeing persecution, green-card holders who have committed
certain drug crimes and the hundreds of Muslim men detained and deported after
Sept. 11 for visa violations.

It includes the 275 Korean immigrants who were given phony green cards by a
longtime San Jose INS supervisor who took bribes from the Koreans' immigration
consultants.

Distinction in rights

Summary denial of deportation appeals mark another distinction between the
rights of citizens and those of immigrants. The disparity is important because
the Justice Department's anti-terrorism efforts have stretched the boundaries of
immigration law, especially when it comes to Muslim men.

"It's pretty scary," said Alex Park, a Santa Clara attorney who represents
roughly a third of the 275 Koreans caught up in the green-card scam, many of
whom await deportation hearings. "They're more interested in clearing the docket
than in ensuring that justice has been done."

The hearing today in Pasadena stems from Attorney General John Ashcroft's
efforts to lighten a backlog before the Board of Immigration Appeals, often the
last refuge for those seeking asylum.

Those efforts went through an overhaul last year, after the backlog in cases
reached 56,000. Where judges used to work in panels of three, they now mostly
work alone.

This "streamlining" has led to a dramatic increase in the number of unexplained
denials of appeals, according to a Los Angeles Times statistical analysis. And
though some deportations are overturned, the more frequent result has been
denial of the appeal.

And while the overhaul has reduced the backlog of cases before the Board of
Immigration Appeals, it has created a new backlog in federal courts.

For the year ending in March, the 9th Circuit received 4,200 immigration
appeals. In most years, it receives about 1,000, said Cathy Catterson, the
court's clerk.

Stay issued

In response to the unprecedented numbers, the court now issues an automatic, but
temporary, stay of deportation until the case is resolved.

The Justice Department declined comment. But the agency's Web site says the
streamlining effort is critical to national security.

Critics, however, say the measures eliminate basic legal rights. Without a legal
opinion about their arguments against deportation, lawyers are left with little
to guide their future legal strategy.

Perhaps more significantly, the unexplained denials leave no trace of evidence
as to whether the appeals board, in coming to their conclusions, considered the
legal quirks inherent in separate cases.

"There's no way to ascertain whether the agency looked into the case at all,"
said Marc Van Der Hout, a San Francisco attorney representing Maria Elba
Rosas-Robles, one of the cases combined together for today's hearing in
Pasadena.

Rosas-Robles, of Hercules, came to the United States in 1974 and now has a green
card. Her husband and two children are all U.S. citizens. Rosas-Robles, 46,
committed a federal drug offense in 1996 -- around the time a federal
immigration-reform law was enacted that made deportation of criminals easier.

Van Der Hout disputes whether the 1996 law, which calls for her deportation for
the drug offense, applies to her because of when it went into effect. Healso
says the Justice Department violated basic rules for introducing evidence during
her deportation hearing, rendering the deportation order void.

The Board of Immigration Appeals denied the appeal without any legal
explanation.

Rosas-Robles is lucky she can appeal to the federal courts. The 1996 immigration
law voided the ability of many immigrants to appeal deportation orders beyond
the Board of Immigration Appeals.

"What I really think they're trying to do is steamroll people through the
process and get their deportation order," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the
ACLU's Immigrants' Rights Project.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 15, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. SEEKS 'CRIMINAL ALIENS';
BAY AREA RESIDENTS ON LIST OF 80,000 DEPORTEES WHO HAVE VANISHED

BYLINE: MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 353 words


Federal authorities Wednesday announced a renewed effort to capture immigrants
who have been convicted of crimes in the United States but vanished as judges
ordered them deported.

Two of the Top 10 most wanted "criminal aliens" on a list released by the
Department of Homeland Security were Bay Area residents: Siamak Noohian, 38, a
onetime San Jose resident, and Mario Agbulos Villanueva, 47, a laborer who once
lived in San Bruno.

Federal authorities want local law enforcement to help in the search for the
approximately 80,000 "criminal alien absconders," but the issue may pose a
particular problem in the Bay Area, where many local agencies have policies of
not enforcing immigration law.

San Jose, San Francisco, Oakland, Santa Cruz and Palo Alto police are among the
many agencies where existing policies dictate that authorities should not detain
individuals for immigration violations. Those agencies have traditionally said
that enforcing immigration law erodes trust with their local communities.

San Jose police Sgt. Steve Dixon said he did not have any information about
Noohian, who Homeland Security officials said had been convicted of forcible
rape in 1998.

San Bruno police, who will hold people on immigration violations, said their
only contact with Villanueva was in 1997, when he registered as a sex offender,
said spokesman Russ Nicolopulos. Villanueva was convicted of lewd and lascivious
acts with a child in South San Francisco in 1987, he said.

After San Bruno police failed to find him to confirm his address for a sex
offender registry, a warrant was issued for his arrest.

Criminal aliens wanted for deportation are only a fraction of the approximately
388,000 immigrants nationwide who have been ordered deported. The larger group
includes those whose asylum applications have been denied, people who have
broken visa rules and people who entered the country illegally.

Federal officials Wednesday did not immediately disclose what portion of the
total list of criminal absconders were permanent legal residents and which
portion were in the country illegally.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 28, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NON-CITIZENS MAY NOT ADOPT FOREIGN CHILDREN

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 616 words


Q
My wife and I are permanent residents who have been married for more than 10
years, and we've adopted our 6-year-old nephew from China. We are thrilled to
adopt him after his parents, who are divorced, gave us guardianship, but we have
recently learned that we are not allowed to bring him to the United States to
live with us because we are not yet citizens. We qualify for naturalization in
three years. Is there any type of visa we could apply for to bring him to live
with us?

Victor Zhou
Fremont
A
You're undoubtedly in a difficult situation, said San Jose immigration attorney
Indu Liladhar-Hathi. According to immigration laws, at least one parent must be
a U.S. citizen in order to adopt a child in another country, and the parents
have to physically reside with the child for two continuous years,
Liladhar-Hathi said.

If you and your wife leave the United States to live in China for two years, you
would fail to meet the citizenship requirements that prevent you from leaving
the country for more than six months at a time, Liladhar-Hathi said. And
splitting your time between the United States and China also may not be a good
idea. Multiple entries and exits may raise suspicion among immigration officials
at the airport, and it could complicate your application for citizenship,
Liladhar-Hathi said.

The safest thing to do is wait until you qualify for naturalization,
Liladhar-Hathi said. As soon as you apply for naturalization, you can leave the
country for an extended period of time but will need to be present for any
immigration bureau appointments and your swearing-in ceremony.

Q
Last June I applied to renew my green card, which I've had since 1988. A sticker
was placed on the back that stated: "The validity of this card is extended
through June 2003." The immigration officer at the time told me the sticker can
be used to travel in and out of the United States. But it has been almost a
year, and I haven't received my replacement card. Do I contact the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services or apply for another renewal?

Jack Borlongan
Daly City
A
Local BCIS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said you should definitely visit the BCIS
office in San Francisco to inquire about the extension. The office at 444
Washington St. is open weekdays from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. On Wednesdays it closes at
2:30 p.m.

Q
My mother got her green card in 2001 and got a BCIS permit to be out of the
country. That permit was extended from April 2003 to December 2003. How many
times can you renew your extension, and what is the process of filing? Can she
extend again?

Sandy Anders
Sunnyvale
A
Yes, you can ask for a second extension by filing form I-31, according to
Susanna I. Bogue, an immigration lawyer in San Francisco. The BCIS will probably
extend it if you have a good reason -- such as an illness in the family, Bogue
said. But she cautioned against additional extensions because the BCIS might
begin to question whether the immigrant actually resides in the United States.

New: electronic filing: On Thursday, BCIS officials will kick off a new system
that will allow electronic filing for forms I-765 (the application for
employment authorization) and I-90 (the application for the replacement of green
cards). You can download the forms at www.bcis.gov.

The agency receives about 7 million applications for immigration benefits and
filings for employment authorization annually. Green card replacement accounts
for almost a third of these, according to the BCIS. The goal of e-filing is to
make it easier for immigrants to submit applications.

"E-filing is so much easier," Rummery said. "You can do that with the cat on
your lap."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigration Experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 23, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TIPS FOR NON-CITIZENS TRAVELING OUTSIDE U.S.

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 592 words


It's summertime, which means many immigrants have lots of questions related to
travel outside of the United States. Navid Dayzad, an immigration lawyer with
the San Francisco law firm of Weaver & Schlenger, recently conducted a seminar
on the subject.

Here is a summary of Dayzad's advice for immigrants traveling this summer:

* Present proper documents for re-entering the United States. Consult with an
attorney on this before leaving the United States. Recent rule changes in
immigration and the emphasis on security have made travel a complicated affair.
In the economic downturn, many Silicon Valley companies have changed their
names. Immigrant workers who travel for such companies on work visas should be
prepared to present documents that show they still work for the same company.

* Check your form I-94. Non-immigrant travelers to the United States receive an
I-94 upon arrival at a port. The traveler should make sure the immigration
inspector at the airport notes the proper validity date and status in which the
individual is admitted, Dayzad said.

* Do not travel while your non-immigrant visa petition is pending. International
travel can cause complications, and it is better not to travel while your
petition is pending, Dayzad said.

* Revalidate your visa. Most non-immigrants require a visa to enter the United
States. If you are eligible, it is better to renew your visa by mail while
you're in the United States, rather than renew the visa at the U.S. consulates
abroad.

Q
A friend recently returned to the Philippines for a visit and she told us that
the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS) allows green-card
holders to be absent from the United States only three weeks at a time, and if
they will be out longer they have to apply for a re-entry permit.

Is it true? Does this apply to U.S. citizens or only permanent residents? Whose
computer system contains the record of when someone left the United States?

Carl Holt
Sunnyvale
A
A re-entry permit is not required unless a green-card holder will be absent from
the United States for 12 months or more, according to Dayzad. This was confirmed
by a recent 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals decision. The main source for
tracking how long a non-citizen has been outside the United States is a BCIS
database.

Q
I have been a permanent resident since 1962, at age 8. I still have my original
Alien Registration Card, which I never renewed. I would now like tobecome a U.S.
citizen.

In 1971 I applied for citizenship but never heard from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, and later I stopped reporting my change of address to
the INS.

My questions are: Do I need to renew my green card before applying for
citizenship? Will I be penalized for not renewing my green card and for not
reporting my address changes?

A. Aragon
Los Gatos
A
Yes, you must first renew the green card because it was issued when you were
under 14, said Pablo Pineda, citizenship coordinator at Sacred Heart Community
Service of San Jose.

You can pick up an I-90 form (application to replace permanent resident card,
$130) from the BCIS office or fill it out online through the BCIS Web site,
www.immigration.gov.

If you file online, the BCIS will provide information on how to schedule an
appointment for your photograph, signature and fingerprints.

Finally, you won't be penalized for not renewing your green card, though the
BCIS can penalize an immigrant for not reporting address changes, but it is not
known to happen, Pineda said.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 25, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SILENT VICTIMS OF IMMIGRATION FRAUD;
FOR IMMIGRANTS SEEKING LEGAL RESIDENCE, CONSULTANTS CAN OFFER HOPE;
AND DECEIT

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3836 words

DATELINE: SALINAS


When immigrants in this farming community need help securing green cards, work
permits or citizenship, they go to a woman known simply as Gladys.

Gladys Jimenez has served thousands of immigrants since she opened her
immigration consulting business nine years ago on a crowded strip alongside
taquerias and 99-cent stores.

But hundreds of her clients now face possible deportation after federal
immigration officials concluded that paperwork filed on their behalf by Gladys
Immigration Service may be fraudulent. In some cases, applications for work
permits apparently claim immigrants lived in the United States when they did
not, working for a farm that's existence cannot be verified. Separately, the
Monterey County District Attorney's Office has begun an inquiry into her
business.

Allegations of fraud against consultants such as Jimenez are common in
California, where breakneck immigration has created a great demand for help in
navigating a bureaucracy that holds the keys to citizenship.

By law, consultants can do no more than help clients fill out paperwork. But
experts say spotty enforcement and a lack of regulation leaves the door open for
unscrupulous consultants to prey on undocumented immigrants, charging them high
fees for fraudulent services that can lead to deportation, even when the
immigrants have a legitimate chance to obtain legal residency.

The state provided no special means for enforcement when in 1986 it enacted laws
intended to protect people from predatory consultants. And a Mercury News
investigation found that few county district attorney's offices investigate
consultants or regularly prosecute immigration fraud cases. Moreover, federal
immigration officials in California who suspect fraud generally leave it to the
state to enforce its laws.

"I would estimate that there are tens of thousands of people ripped off every
year by this sort of fraudulent activity," state Attorney General Bill Lockyer
told the Mercury News. His office has filed several civil lawsuits against
consultants in Bay Area counties where district attorneys do not regularly
investigate violations.

In many ways, Jimenez seems better than most in the business. She meets
California's basic legal requirements regarding immigration consultants: She has
registered a state-mandated $50,000 bond, posted a sign in her office stating
she is not an attorney and does not appear to advertise as a notario, a Spanish
term that often means attorney.

Jimenez denies doing anything illegal. A former undocumented immigrant who once
worked as a restaurant dishwasher, she says she tries to help people who come to
the United States, as she did, seeking a better life.

"It's a desperate feeling," she said of being undocumented. "It's like living in
limbo."

Jimenez started her business after borrowing books about immigration law and
working as a consultant at a friend's income-tax office. Her clients, many of
them farmworkers, trickle into her East Alisal Street storefront six days a week
from 9 a.m. to 6:30 p.m., often carrying documents bundled in worn plastic
grocery bags. They grab ticket numbers and sit in one of the 23 chairs in the
lobby. Although Jimenez employs three assistants, some immigrants will wait more
than an hour to speak directly with her.

In Salinas, where almost two-thirds of the 151,000 residents are Latino, Jimenez
is well-known, the only consultant people think of in a city without an
immigration attorney.

"The way I see it, she's someone who helps the community," said AnaLlamas, 34,
who recently traveled more than an hour from her home in Los Banos to meet with
Jimenez.

But over the past year, some of those helped by Jimenez have received letters
from federal immigration officials stating that documents she submitted for them
appear to have been falsified. Jimenez, meanwhile, has been repeatedly accused
by attorneys and immigrants of providing legal advice, which is not allowed
under state law but is difficult to track. They've forwarded complaints to
authorities and wonder why she's still in business.

Trying to keep up
Laws, enforcement
fail to curb abuse

State legislation enacted in 1986, law-enforcement officials agree, has done
little to curb the abuse by unqualified or corrupt consultants. The centerpiece
of those laws -- the bond requirement -- was designed to drive off fly-by-night
consultants and provide fraud victims a route to recourse, not to regulate the
industry.

Lawmakers have taken small steps to update California's laws as immigration
fraud increased after the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which
granted some 2.7 million undocumented immigrants amnesty nationwide. The amnesty
was a boon to new consultants seeking to help the larger pool of immigrants, and
later their relatives, apply for legal residency.

In increments over several years, the bond amount rose from $10,000 to $50,000.
But the state has no record of how often, if ever, bond companies have had to
pay out a bond as a result of fraud.

As of this month, 391 consultants in California are considered in good standing
by the Secretary of State's Office because they have posted bonds, according to
state documents. But the department functions merely as a record holder, with no
authority to monitor or control the industry. A Mercury News review of those
documents found that, for unexplained reasons, the state has no record of bond
filings before 1995, underscoring the scant oversight of a system some
law-enforcement officials would like to see changed.

Moreover, the review found that only 60 consultants have posted bonds in six
area counties -- Santa Clara, San Mateo, San Francisco, Alameda, Santa Cruz and
Monterey. But at least twice that number advertise in the Yellow Pages as
immigration consultants in those counties. Far more build their businesses by
placing ads in ethnic publications and, like Jimenez, by word-of-mouth referrals
among immigrants who share a language and culture.

Such referrals were the root of one high-profile Bay Area case, where up to 275
Korean immigrants caught in a green-card scam now face possible deportation.

The immigrants applied for the green cards more than a decade ago with the help
of four immigration consultants they met through a Cupertino church, who then
bribed a federal immigration official in return for the documents. The employee
and consultants, none of whom were bonded, were convicted of fraud in federal
court.

Bonded or not, consultants are rarely on the radar screens of district
attorneys, who say they seldom investigate immigration fraud because their
offices are under-funded and overworked.

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office is unusual for having
prosecuted 15 cases of immigration fraud, that resulted in three convictions,
over the past two years.

Few other counties keep track of the number of consultants -- if any -- they
investigate. In agricultural Kern County, which includes Bakersfield,
prosecutors haven't investigated a case in at least 14 years.

"It doesn't mean it's not going on, it's just that it's not being reported,"
said Kern County Deputy District Attorney Michael Yraceburn.

In the case of Jimenez, many of her alleged victims are reluctant to contact
authorities because they are living in the United States illegally. Even those
who say they can prove they've been wronged by Jimenez will instead enlist the
help of non-profit immigrant-rights organizations to straighten out their legal
problems.

"Just today I had three people here who had problems with Gladys," Jorge
Sifuentes, an immigration specialist with Catholic Charities in Salinas, said
recently.

Prosecutors say there are several obstacles, in addition to winning the trust of
victims, to fighting fraud by immigration consultants. Some, forexample, grapple
with cracking down on unscrupulous consultants while not appearing to support
illegal immigration, said Trevor White, an Alameda County deputy district
attorney. Others concede investigating consultants is low on the priority list,
particularly in tough economic times.

"Let's put the cards on the table," said Chuck Finney, a consumer-protection
prosecutor in San Mateo County, which has investigated two cases of immigration
fraud in the past two years. "There's only so much you can do in a day."

The burgeoning business and the fraud that follows has increased throughout the
United States and spread to areas experiencing an unprecedented influx of
immigrants.

"I've heard from people in New York, in Maryland, North Carolina, all over the
past year or so," said Nora Privitera, a lawyer with Immigrant Legal Resource
Center in San Francisco, a non-profit organization that sponsors national
seminars to raise awareness about shoddy consultants.

Rural areas such as the Salinas Valley are particularly ripe for such fraud,
immigration attorneys and advocates say, because they are popular destinations
for newly arrived undocumented immigrants, and prosecutors tend to be less
informed about laws regulating consultants.

Searching for help
Reputation leads
worker to woman

Among the many immigrants who have hired Jimenez over the years is a 32-year-old
farmworker who recently learned he could be deported because of her assistance.

The man, who left his hometown in Michoacan, Mexico at age 19, spoke to the
Mercury News about his experience on the condition he not be named.

The farmworker qualifies for a green card because his father is a U.S. resident.
But because he turned 21 while waiting for his application to be processed, he
was bumped down the U.S. State Department's waiting list. That meant he would
have to wait at least 10 more years before becoming a legal resident.

He met Jimenez in 1996, after hearing co-workers rave about her assistance. He
wanted to know if she could expedite his green card, already having waited four
years.

"I told her that I had received my acceptance document for permanent residency
and wanted to know what she could do for me while I waited," said the
farmworker, who now lives in Salinas.

While Jimenez couldn't speed up the process, he said that for $350 she proposed
another solution: He could apply for a work permit while he waited for his green
card. To process the application, Jimenez needed evidence that he was in the
country since 1988, the cut-off year for the so-called family unity immigration
program.

He told her he arrived in 1990. "Don't worry," he said he remembers Jimenez
saying. He said she then urged him to find any documentation dating to 1988,
even an old bus transfer.

He could find nothing earlier than his pay stubs as a farmworker dating to 1990.
But he said that for another $100, Jimenez assured him a work permit.

The farmworker, who has a sixth-grade education and speaks little English, says
he didn't understand the details of the form he was signing, which is only
available in English. In fact, he was not eligible for the permit under the
family unity program, and couldn't legally work while waiting for his green
card, which he says he didn't realize until last year.

A lawyer for Jimenez, Dana Mendelson, said she suspects the farmworker had to
have known what he was signing.

Jimenez says she has never skirted laws for people who otherwise do not qualify
for benefits. Asked why she advertises work permits, which are relevant only to
a small group of qualified immigrants, she said:

"That doesn't mean we will get work permits; with that sign I am referring to
the renewal of work permits," Jimenez said recently in a telephone interview
from her native Peru, where she said she was visiting to "relieve stress." "We
can help fill out forms for a work permit, and all a person has to do is put it
in the mail."

Within six months of submitting his application, the farmworker said he received
his work permit from the now-defunct Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Jimenez, he said, also helped him secure subsequent renewals.

Papers questioned
Federal office finds
holes in applications

But last year, while awaiting a fourth renewal, he received a letter from the
INS California Service Center in Laguna Niguel stating he was ineligible to
work. The letter, dated Sept. 26, 2002, said he failed to sufficiently account
for his presence in the United States in 1988 and 1989.

He wasn't alone.

"After a review of several hundred applications prepared and notarized by Gladys
Jimenez, the Service has found an unusually high number of documents that appear
to be duplicates in style and content," the letter read. "Therefore, the service
questions the authenticity and veracity of the documents submitted to
substantiate your employment with 'Felix Farms' from April 1988 to July 15,
1991."

The farmworker was outraged. He had never worked at a Felix Farms, never heard
of it.

"I panicked," he said, "because I knew I could be deported."

An immigration attorney he consulted, Vilma Guerrero of Santa Cruz, suspects
Jimenez somehow obtained falsified pay stubs. She and other attorneys, along
with legal experts from non-profit immigration help centers who are representing
former Jimenez clients, say they've seen dozens of similar letters.

"Most of the time she takes uneducated people who are very vulnerable," said
Sifuentes, the immigration specialist with Catholic Charities, of Jimenez.

A Mercury News search of business records in Salinas and unincorporated Monterey
County, where the vast majority of agricultural work takes place, found no
existence of a Felix Farms. A search of statewide records also came up empty. An
address for Felix Farms wasn't listed in the farmworker's letter.

"You are altering my information for immigration purposes, and this could
jeopardize my case," the farmworker said he told Jimenez.

He demanded that she contact immigration officials to explain how she obtained
"proof" of his residence before 1990.

He then contacted Sifuentes, who warned the farmworker that he could be in
danger of deportation because he signed for the work permit application under
penalty of perjury. Sifuentes referred the farmworker to Guerrero.

Several attorneys had previously complained to law-enforcement officials about
Jimenez and other consultants, but got nowhere.

"We've tried to get the state agencies -- state attorney general, district
attorney's offices -- to use their enforcement power to clean up some of this,
and so far there hasn't been much movement on that front," said Michael Meuter,
a supervising attorney with the California Legal Rural Assistance office in
Salinas.

Lawyers at the non-profit Watsonville Law Center, have helped former Jimenez
clients fill out consumer complaint forms that were forwarded to the Monterey
County District Attorney's Office over the past year.

The district attorney's office declined to comment about Jimenez and wouldn't
say whether she was under criminal investigation.

Frustrated, immigration attorneys and other immigration service providers in
Santa Cruz and Monterey counties last year formed a task force, in part to
educate prosecutors and the public about fraudulent immigration consultants.
Jimenez remains largely the focus.

The group enlisted Rep. Sam Farr, D-Salinas, who had become aware of Jimenez
through three staff members who handle immigration matters.

Farr shares the frustration of those who wish federal, state and local law
enforcement would crack down on consultants.

"It's probably the fault of all these government agencies for not doing their
job," said Farr, whose office coordinates the Central Coast Immigration Task
Force. "State laws have to be changed."

When to probe
Different jurisdictions
have different standards

Farr and other task-force members are astounded that the Bureau of Citizenship
and Immigration Services, and its predecessor, the INS, noticed a questionable
pattern in Jimenez's work, but apparently instead chose to target her clients.

Immigration officials say there's good reason, and it has to do with federal
regulations.

While Jimenez meets the requirements to be a consultant in California, she
doesn't belong to a more exclusive network of immigration service providers who
are recognized by the federal agency.

Those who are recognized as accredited representatives by the U.S. Board of
Immigration Appeals can act as consultants as well as represent clients at
immigration hearings.

If Jimenez were an accredited representative, immigration officials would have
investigated her immediately, said Donald W. Neufeld, director of the California
Service Center in Laguna Niguel, the regional office that flagged her paperwork.

Neufeld, whose signature appears on the INS rejection letters, wouldn't specify
how Jimenez came to the center's attention.

But a former aide to Farr, Yvette Agredano, who was trained in immigration
matters by INS officials in the late 1990s, said the agency first knew about
questionable applications from Gladys Immigration Service in 1998. Agredano said
INS employees told her they had "red-flagged" questionable documents from
Jimenez but could do nothing because federal laws apparently had not been
violated.

"A mechanism needs to be established to secure collaboration among the BCIS,
district attorney's office, state Attorney General's Office," said Carina
Chavez, who replaced Agredano in January 2001 and has met many of Jimenez's
clients. "All of these agencies witness immigration-consultant fraud through
various lenses."

Neufeld said immigration officials in his Southern California processing center
can investigate a case if they suspect fraud. They also generally provide the
information to a local immigration office or an appropriate state agency "for
further action," even if the consultant is unaccredited.

"I couldn't tell you what we did specifically in that case," he said of Jimenez.
"We don't comment on cases that may or may not be under investigation."

He referred further questions to the San Jose district immigration office, which
includes Salinas. Bay Area spokeswoman Sharon Rummery declined to say what
investigators knew about Jimenez.

Jimenez says she draws a line between what's legal in the immigration business
and what's not. When cases require legal advice, she said she refers clients to
a private attorney.

"We can never tell a client if they will qualify for something," Jimenez said.
"That would be against the law."

Jimenez said she received a letter a few months ago from the Monterey County
District Attorney's Office asking her to disclose details about how she
operates. She suspects prosecutors are investigating her because other Salinas
consultants could have complained, envious of the dozens of clients that seek
her assistance every week.

"As long as one's conscience is clean," Jimenez said, "one has to keep working."

She hopes to open a second location.

WARNING SIGNS
Some immigration consultants will make exaggerated claims to lure clients who
are desperate for help, attorneys and immigrant advocates say. People should be
suspicious of those who promise immigrants:

Work permits right away

U.S. visas within a few weeks

Quick processing of immigration papers because they know officials at the
federal Bureau for Citizenship and Immigration Services

Legal status under the so-called "10-year law," a provision of immigration code
that applies only to certain undocumented immigrants; the process involves
placing immigrants in deportation proceedings, but some consultants don't make
that known

Source: Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco
CONSULTANTS AT A GLANCE
Breakneck immigration has let to great demand for help in navigating a system
that holds the keys to citizenship.
WHAT THEY DO
People seeking help with immigration matters can consult with several
professionals.
IMMIGRATION CONSULTANT
Someone who, by California law, can help fill out complex immigration forms --
such as applications for citizenship, green cards and work permits -- but cannot
provide legal advice.
IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Someone who has studied U.S. immigrations laws and has graduated from law
school. He or she is licensed to practice law and is regulated by the state and
federal government.
ACCREDITED REPRESENTATIVE
Someone, usually affiliated with a non-profit agency, who has been certified by
the federal Board of Immigration Appeals to act as a representative in
immigration proceedings.
Source: Mercury News research; Executive Office for Immigration Review
WHAT THE LAW SAYS
Immigration consultants, who help immigrants fill out complex federal
immigration forms for a fee, are governed by a set of state rules, as outlined
in Business and Professions Code, Section 22441. They must:
Not provide legal assistance or advice on immigration matters. They can help
fill out forms, such as translating a person's answers and securing birth
certificates and other supporting documents.
Display signs in their offices saying they are not attorneys.
Post a $50,000 bond with the Secretary of State's Office. They must show proof
of the bond to clients.
Provide a written contract in English and in the primary language of the client.
The contract must specify the services being performed and the fee. A client has
the right to cancel within 72 hours of signing the contract.
Review all documents with clients before they are filed with the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Source: Immigrant Legal Resource Center; Santa Clara County District Attorney's
Office
RESOURCES FOR HELP
The following are phone numbers and Web sites that can help when dealing with
immigration consultants and attorneys. Those who suspect they've been cheated by
an immigration consultant can call the state Attorney General's Office of
Immigrant Assistance at (888) 587-0557.
Those who suspect they've been cheated by an immigration lawyer can call the
California State Bar at (800) 843-9053.
To learn if an immigration consultant's bond is active with the state of
California, visit www.ss.ca.gov/business/sf/bondsearch.htm
To learn if an attorney belongs to the state bar, visit
http://members.calbar.ca.gov/search/member.aspx
To help select an immigration attorney, visit www.aila.org.
Source: Mercury News research

CHART:
KEEPING TRACK OF CONSULTANTS
Immigration consultants in California are required by law to post a $50,000 bond

 with the state. But law-enforcement officials say few practicing consultants
meet that requirement. The following shows the number of those in selected
counties who have posted bonds as of August.
COUNTY               BONDED CONSULTANTS
Santa Clara          22
San Francisco        15
Alameda              12
Santa Cruz            6
San Mateo             2
Contra Costa          4
Monterey              7
Los Angeles         197
California          391
Source: Mercury News research

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: A MERCURY NEWS SPECIAL REPORT
Mercury News Staff Writer Jessie Mangaliman contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (5), Chart;
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Gladys Immigration Service, run by Gladys Jimenez, meets basic state rules for
consultants: It has a state-mandated $50,000 bond, a sign in the office states
Jimenez is not a lawyer and Jimenez does not appear to advertise as an attorney.

PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Jorge Sifuentes, an immigration specialist with Catholic Charities, has joined
other activists and private attorneys in complaining to officials about
fraudulent consultants.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
The farmworker, with his daughter, was referred to a lawyer after his work
permit application was questioned by a federal agency.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
An undocumented farmworker answers his door while his daughter looks out the
window. Because federal officials have questioned the veracity of paperwork
submitted by a well-known immigration consultant, theSalinas man is among
hundreds of immigrants who could face deportation.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Gladys Jimenez runs her consulting business, Gladys Immigration Service, from
this building in Salinas. In a city without an immigration attorney, her service
is popular.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 26, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FIGHTING IMMIGRATION FRAUD;
SANTA CLARA COUNTY LEADS STATE IN INVESTIGATIONS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1477 words


Using phone books and a copy machine, Santa Clara County is on the cutting edge
of combating immigration fraud.

Every six months, when new phone books are issued, Deputy District Attorney
Martha Donohoe flips through the yellow pages, looking for ads from immigration
consultants. When she finds consultants who have not posted a required $50,000
bond with the state, she photocopies the ads for review. The practice, as simple
as it seems, has generated 81 investigations in the past two years -- far more
than any other county in Northern California.

But Donohoe says fraud persists despite her efforts, underscoring the weakness
of laws designed to protect immigrants.

She and other consumer advocates say California's system, the strongest in the
country, is largely ineffective. Tighter regulations are needed, they say, to
prevent consultants from bilking immigrants.

California, which licenses hairdressers and manicurists, has no licensing
requirements for immigration consultants, who help immigrants fill out complex
immigration forms for a fee. Nor is any training required. And the victims of
unscrupulous consultants, many of whom fear coming forward because they live in
the United States illegally, are given just a year to report problems to law
enforcement before the statute of limitations expires.

"I know how to enforce what we have on the books, but it doesn't mean I'm
enthusiastic about how it's laid out," said Donohoe, head of Santa Clara
County's consumer-fraud unit. "I would prefer that there was regulation."

Of seven states with laws that apply to immigration consultants, California has
the toughest. In addition to requiring a bond, the state prohibits consultants
from dispensing legal advice. Consultants also must clearly state to their
clients, in writing, that they are not attorneys.

The laws, however, are often difficult to enforce, particularly when many
victims are reluctant to come forward for fear of being deported. It places a
large burden on district attorneys to seek out fraud and its victims.

For Donohoe, that means enlisting the help of clerks and interns to sift through
a stack of phone books, as well as Spanish- and Chinese-language newspapers. For
days at a time, they'll hole up in a conference room and type the names of
people advertising as immigration consultants into a laptop computer. They'll
cross-reference the list with names compiled in an online database by the
Secretary of State's Office, which keeps record of bonds posted by immigration
consultants.

Her office will mail "cease and desist" letters to consultants who appearto be
in violation and will ask for proof that they posted a bond.

"It's more or less a paper chase," said Donohoe, who said she does not contact
immigration officials about undocumented immigrants who file complaints. "It's
not a violent crime, so it's not high on priority lists."

Prosecuting such cases is difficult, she said, because the law is not
well-defined and requires a lot of research. Of Santa Clara County's 81
investigations in the past two years, Donohoe prosecuted 15 immigration
consultants and convicted three. A dozen others are facing criminal charges,
while many others have gone out of business.

Those convicted of illegal consulting, a misdemeanor, face up to a year in jail
while repeat offenders face felony charges with tougher penalties.

Using knowledge and expertise gleaned from these types of cases, Donohoe decided
to put what she knows on paper. She wrote an internal memorandum in 1999 as a
guide to colleagues in her office on how to investigate immigration fraud. The
manual, a primer on state law and the challenges in combating such fraud, is
widely used by the California District Attorneys Association.

"It's a very delicate dance: We can't condone the breaking of laws; we're also
not dispensing immigration amnesty," said Trevor White, an Alameda County deputy
district attorney who has used Donohoe's manual to investigate immigration
fraud. "But what we don't want is a class of victims out there who are
perpetually being victimized. That's not right."

Donohoe's persistence has led to one significant change. In 2000, she persuaded
the Secretary of State's Office to list the addresses of immigration consultants
in its database of bonds. The addition has saved Donohoe hours of research.

A year later, the state made it illegal to advertise as a consultant without
first posting a bond. The change meant prosecutors no longer had to rely on
costly undercover operations to nab consultants.

"To go after that person, you had to set up a sting," said June Cravett,
assistant district attorney in San Francisco County, who lobbied for the change.
"You're talking Chinese. You're talking Spanish. You're talking expensive."

Undercover operations are the tools of choice in Los Angeles County, which also
has created a community task force to fight immigration fraud. But few district
attorney's offices perform even the yellow pages check that drives Santa Clara
County's investigations.

Such sporadic enforcement is all the more reason to bolster existing laws,
reform advocates say. Among the changes they say would make immigration fraud
easier to prosecute:

* Extend the statute of limitations from one year to four years. Immigrants
often do not realize they have been victimized, Donohoe said, because
consultants tend to blame delays on federal immigration officials.

* Require bonding companies and the Secretary of State's Office to notify
district attorneys when a consultant's bond has expired or been canceled.

"Often we do not know that a bond has been canceled until someone has been
victimized," Donohoe said.

* Educate consultants and immigrants. Require consultants to undergo training,
and develop seminars to make immigrants aware of their rights, said Nora
Privitera, a lawyer with the Immigrant Legal Resource Center, a non-profit
organization in San Francisco.

Of all the reforms being discussed, however, none is as far-reaching as
requiring consultants to obtain a state-issued license. The idea is not new. The
state requires licenses for many professionals, such as real estate agents,
appraisers, paralegals and legal-document assistants.

Legislators first suggested adding immigration consultants to that list 17 years
ago, when the state passed its first law regarding the industry. Supporters
believe it would bring much-needed credibility -- and control -- to the
profession.

But as attractive as it seems, licensing on the state or national level has yet
to achieve momentum.

"I think it's full of pitfalls," said Rep. Sam Farr, D-Salinas. "It's sort of an
easy suggestion but just not practical."

In addition to California, six other states have laws that affect immigration
consultants: New Mexico, New Jersey, Arizona, Illinois, Minnesota and
Washington. Chicago in 1991 became the first city in the country torequire
immigration consultants to get a general business license, as well as register
with the city's Department of Consumer Services. City officials say the
requirements have driven the most notorious abusers out of business and
prevented serious fraud.

"It's one of the first things that Mayor Richard Daley did when he came into
office," said Caroline Shoenberger, commissioner of the city's consumer
department. "For the most part, there is compliance."

Some speculate whether such a licensing system could have prevented two
high-profile cases of immigration fraud in Santa Clara County.

As many as 275 mostly Korean immigrants could face deportation for being part of
a green-card scheme that involved four non-bonded immigration consultants who
bribed a former supervisor with the former Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Many of the immigrants met the brokers at church. And many would
qualify for citizenship today had they dealt with legitimate consultants.

"An unregulated industry attracts corrupt officials and consultants," said Alex
C. Park, the Santa Clara attorney representing dozens of those immigrants.

Requiring a license also could have made all the difference to Marian Salvaleon,
who paid a consultant $1,900 for what turned out to be a fraudulent promise to
obtain a work permit for her niece in the Philippines.

Noel Ramayrat and business partner Mercedes Alcantara are charged with bilking
her and hundreds of Latino and Filipino immigrants out of tens of thousands of
dollars and falsely representing themselves as attorneys. They are awaiting
trial on multiple counts of grand theft, tax fraud, conspiracy, unauthorized
practice of law, and illegal immigration consulting. They face a combined 93
years in jail.

"These consultants are not being monitored, so they think they can get away with
cheating," said Salvaleon, a Sunnyvale nurse who is a U.S. citizen.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SILENT VICTIMS
A MERCURY NEWS SPECIAL REPORT
Mercury News Staff Writer Edwin Garcia contributed to this report.
IDEAS FOR REFORM
A Mercury News investigation found that few of the state's district attorneys
regularly investigate immigration consultants for fraud. Attorneys and immigrant
advocates say changes are needed to California's laws to make immigration fraud
easier to prosecute. Here are several ideas for reform:
* Regulate consultants by requiring a state-issued license, much like those
required for paralegals and legal-document assistants.
* Extend the statute of limitations from one year to four years, which would
allow more time to report allegations of abuse.
* Require bonding companies and the Secretary of State's Office to notify
district attorneys when a consultant's bond has expired or been canceled.
* Require consultants to undergo training, and develop seminars to make
immigrants aware of their rights.
Source: Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office; Immigrant Legal Resource
Center
WHAT THE LAW SAYS
Immigration consultants, who help immigrants fill out complex federal
immigration forms for a fee, are governed by a set of state rules, as outlined
in Business and Professions Code, Section 22441. They must:
* Not provide legal assistance or advice on immigration matters. They can help
fill out forms, such as translating a person's answers and securing birth
certificates and other supporting documents.
* Display signs in their offices saying they are not attorneys.
* Post a $50,000 bond with the Secretary of State's Office. They must show proof
of the bond to clients.
* Provide a written contract in English and in the primary language of the
client. The contract must specify the services being performed and the fee. A
client has the right to cancel within 72 hours of signing the contract.
* Review all documents with clients before they are filed with the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Source: Immigrant Legal Resource Center; Santa Clara County District Attorney's
Office
RESOURCES FOR HELP
The following are phone numbers and Web sites that can help when dealing with
immigration consultants and attorneys.
Those who suspect they've been cheated by an immigration consultant can call the
state Attorney General's Office of Immigrant Assistance at (888) 587-0557.
Those who suspect they've been cheated by an immigration lawyer can call the
California State Bar at (800) 843-9053.
To learn if an immigration consultant's bond is active with the state of
California, visit www.ss.ca.gov: business: sf: bondsearch.htm.
To learn if an attorney belongs to the state bar, visit http::
members.calbar.ca. gov: search: member.aspx
To help select an immigration attorney, visit www.aila.org.
Source: Mercury News research

GRAPHIC: Photos (4);
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
With the help of paralegal intern Teresa Chang, left, Deputy District Attorney
Martha Donohoe types the names of people advertising as immigration consultants
into a laptop computer. The list is then checked against names in an online
database compiled by the Secretary of State's Office, which tracks bonds posted
by immigration consultants.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Every six months, Donohoe and assistants flip through phone books looking for
new immigration consultant ads.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Donohoe and her aides make copies of ads for consultants and compare them to
their database and the state's.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
Martha Donohoe, right, a Santa Clara County deputy district attorney, and intern
Teresa Chang update a database of immigration consultants. Donohoe's efforts,
using a phone book to seek out the consultants, have led to 81 fraud probes over
the past two years.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 26, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FRUSTRATED, ATTORNEY PLAYS PLAINTIFF IN CIVIL CASES;
WITH VICTIMS UNWILLING TO COME FORWARD, HE SUES TO HELP REIN IN CORRUPT
CONSULTANTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 460 words


Frustrated by the number of immigration fraud victims he saw almost daily at his
downtown San Francisco office, Steve Baughman did what he knows best -- he sued.

The veteran immigration lawyer has taken several dozen Bay Area immigration
consultants to civil court, using state laws that target consumer fraud.

But rather than sue on behalf of clients -- who often are reluctant to come
forward because they are living in the United States illegally -- Baughman has
played the role of plaintiff.

His response underscores the growing frustration among attorneys and immigrant
advocates across the state who are eager to curb immigration fraud.

"It's the Wild West for immigration consultants," said Baughman, aself-described
"thorn on the side" of San Francisco prosecutors. "Nobody is watching."

In the past five years, he has filed about 30 cases in San Francisco County
Superior Court. In several instances, he has obtained court orders to prevent
unscrupulous consultants from practicing, as well as monetary judgments that
helped pay for his time and expenses. He has a dozen pending cases.

He is disdainful of prosecutors' claims that building criminal cases against
immigration fraud is near impossible without victims. His success, he said, is
based largely on a trail of paper documents.

Several years ago, Baughman brought several immigration fraud cases to June
Cravett, an assistant district attorney in San Francisco. Pressed for time,
prosecutors could not "put together a criminal case" because the statute of
limitations ran out, Cravett said.

"Baughman is a civil lawyer and he doesn't understand what it takes to put
together a criminal case," she said. "My answer to him is: It's the difference
between what we can put together in a criminal case and what he can put together
in a civil case."

On a recent afternoon, Baughman strolled to Chinatown to investigate a company
advertising "full service immigration" in a Chinese-language daily newspaper.
His colleague, Justin Wang, spotted the ad and called the company. Posing as an
immigrant in need of help, Wang determined the company gave legal advice on
immigration matters, a violation of state law. What's more, the services could
cost as much as $3,000.

"I'm outraged at crooks who take advantage of vulnerable immigrants," said
Baughman, 43. "That's the thing that makes my blood boil."

A graduate of Santa Clara University, Baughman has practiced immigration law for
13 years, guiding immigrants through the complex system of obtaining citizenship
and green cards.

Baughman said he does not relish doing the work of prosecutors.

"This isn't my job," Baughman said. "But my goal is to make a big enough fuss
that law enforcement starts doing its job."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SILENT VICTIMS
A MERCURY NEWS SPECIAL REPORT

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Steve Baughman, a Santa Clara University graduate, stands outside a building in
San Francisco's Chinatown where immigration services were advertised.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 13, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ABUSE OF ACTOR'S 1960S VISA SUGGESTED;
SCHWARZENEGGER AIDES DEFEND RECORD

BYLINE: DION NISSENBAUM, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1347 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger has denounced illegal immigration in his bid to
become California's next governor, but the Austrian native may have stretched
the bounds of United States law to secure his own ticket to America in the
1960s.

As a 21-year-old bodybuilder, Schwarzenegger came to the United States in 1968
on a B-1 visa, which allows visiting athletes to compete and train, but bars
them from drawing a salary from an American company.

But in his 1977 autobiography, Schwarzenegger said he reached a deal with a
legendary figure in the bodybuilding industry "to pay me a weekly salary in
exchange for my information and being able to use photographs of me in his
magazine."

That arrangement, said a half-dozen immigration attorneys across the nation,
appears to have violated the terms of his visa.

"It allows you to come in to conduct business, but to be gainfully employed you
need a visa that allows you to be gainfully employed in the United States," said
New York-based immigration attorney Steven S. Mukamal. "It would seem that Mr.
Schwarzenegger violated his own status."

Candidate unclear

Schwarzenegger told campaign aides this week that he does not recall earninga
salary during his first year in America, even though he wrote about it in his
autobiography and the arrangement has been reported in accounts over the
decades.

Aides to the actor vigorously defend the candidate's immigration record, saying
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service would not have extended his B-1
visa after six months, then given him a temporary working visa, if he had done
anything wrong.

"The INS knew full well what he was doing here and had no problem with it," said
Thomas Hiltachk, Schwarzenegger's attorney. "Had there been any violation of his
existing visa, he would not have been granted a new visa."

Schwarzenegger declined to be interviewed or release immigration records that
detail his employment history in the United States.

Immigration has emerged as a central issue in the race to replace Democratic
Gov. Gray Davis, who is facing a historic Oct. 7 recall election.

Although many immigrants break the terms of their visa by working in the United
States, Schwarzenegger has repeatedly stressed that he followed the rules and
insists that other immigrants must do the same.

The Hollywood star, who calls himself the "true immigrant" in the race, has used
his own rags-to-riches tale to explain his support for Proposition 187, a 1994
ballot measure that sought to bar illegal immigrants from receiving educational
and social services. And, as governor, he has vowed to fight a law Davis signed
earlier this month that allows illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses.

"People like myself waited for 15 years after I came to this country -- legally
-- to get citizenship," Schwarzenegger said last week on talk radio. "So I find
it unfair to push the whole thing of undocumented immigrants and to say, well,
you know they should just get their citizenship because they're coming in."

But Schwarzenegger's own tale is not so clear.

The B-1 visa that Schwarzenegger received allows a select group of visitors to
come into the United States for brief periods of business. It allows athletes to
take part in competitions, ministers to lead evangelical tours, engineers to
install computer systems and musicians to record albums. Under the terms of the
visa, "a non-immigrant in B-1 status may not receive a salary from a U.S. source
for services rendered in connection with his or her activities in the United
States." The rules do allow immigrants to receive "actual reasonable expenses,"
such as money for food and hotel rooms.

Even before he arrived in the United States, Schwarzenegger has said, he struck
a deal to work for bodybuilding magnate Joe Weider while he had a B-1 visa so he
could train in California. Weider persuaded Schwarzenegger to train at the
legendary Gold's Gym in Venice after the young bodybuilder lost a major
competition in Florida.

Salary references

"I worked out an agreement with Joe Weider to spend one year in America,"
Schwarzenegger wrote in his 1977 autobiography. "My part of the agreement was to
make available to Weider information about how I trained. He agreed to provide
an apartment, a car and to pay me a weekly salary in exchange for my information
and being able to use photographs of me in his magazine."

In interviews over the years with major American newspapers, Weider has said he
paid the young bodybuilder between $100 and $200 a week to write brochures and
columns for his bodybuilding magazines.

"We helped him edit them, and later we encouraged him to sell his own
correspondence courses," Weider told Schwarzenegger biographer Nigel Andrews in
the 1995 "True Myths: The Life and Times of Arnold Schwarzenegger."

Last month in an interview with the Mercury News, Weider said he paid
Schwarzenegger $200 a week, a generous sum in 1968 when the average weekly wage
was about $114. "I paid him right away," Weider said. "How do you think he was
going to live?"

Schwarzenegger aide Sean Walsh also told the Mercury News last month that the
young bodybuilder was paid a weekly salary, but Walsh said that it was only $65
a week.

When the Mercury News questioned this week whether taking a salary violated the
terms of Schwarzenegger's visa, the campaign argued that Schwarzenegger did not
receive a salary.

Hiltachk said that, despite what Schwarzenegger wrote in his autobiography, the
actor does not think he was paid in exchange for work while he had a B-1 visa.
"His recollection was foggy, but he said he didn't believe he received a salary
or was working for Joe," he said.

The campaign also arranged a conference call Thursday with Weider. Both Walsh
and Hiltachk were on the call. Weider, who is 83, told the Mercury News that he
now cannot recall if he paid Schwarzenegger $200 a week in 1968.

"I thought I paid him around that, but I'm not sure," Weider said Thursday. "I
don't think I paid him exactly weekly. He was paid when he needed some money."

Friday, Walsh said he told the Mercury News in August that Weider gave
Schwarzenegger just a one-time payment of $65 when he arrived -- not $65 a week.

If Weider did pay Schwarzenegger a salary to write for his magazines in 1968 and
1969, that would have been a violation of his immigration status, six
immigration attorneys said this week.

Immigration file

Hiltachk said the candidate's 1973 application to become a permanent resident
outlines his relationship with Weider, demonstrating that the INS knew of the
business arrangement and found no fault with it. But Hiltachk declined to
release any details, citing attorney-client privilege.

The Mercury News filed a public-records request for access to Schwarzenegger's
immigration file, but the federal government -- citing confidentiality --
released just one of the 83 pages -- a newspaper article from 1974. The INS, now
called the Bureau of Immigration and Citizenship Services, also declined to
discuss Schwarzenegger's immigration record.

In November 1969, after more than a year in the United States, Schwarzenegger
received an H-2 visa, which allowed him to work in this country. He became a
permanent resident in 1974 and a citizen in 1983.

Several immigration attorneys said the federal government was much more lax in
the 1960s and 1970s in enforcing immigration laws and said the INS would
probably not have closely scrutinized Schwarzenegger's immigration forms. Had he
tried to do the same thing today, said Crystal Williams of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington, Schwarzenegger might have faced
deportation for violating the terms of his B-1 visa.

"Things were a lot looser in 1968 than they were today," she said. "Generally,
they were not paying as much attention back then as they do today. If you change
from a B-1 to working status without disclosing that you were working
beforehand, that could be considered fraud -- and that's very serious."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Recall
Who Should Lead California?
Related Stories: pages 1A,16A-17A
Mercury News Staff Writer Eric Nalder contributed to this report.
SCHWARZENEGGER'S TICKET TO AMERICA
Gubernatorial candidate ArnoldSchwarzenegger's immigration status through the
years:
September 1968
B-1 business visa: Schwarzenegger arrives in the United States. His visa allows
reimbursement for "actual, reasonable expenses" for food and shelter but does
not permit the visaholder a salary for services rendered to a U.S. business.
May 1968
Renewed B-1 business visa:
Immigration officials grant a renewal period.
November 1969
H-2 temporary work visa:
Schwarzenegger is granted a work visa, which is renewed several times.
The visa is offered to foreign candidates for temporary employment based on low
U.S. worker availability.
June 1974
Permanent residency: Schwarzenegger is granted a status that allows him to live
and work permanently in the U.S. Applicant becomes U.S. resident through
petitions from an employer or relative and is given a green card.
September 1983
U.S. citizenship: Schwarzenegger becomes American citizen.
Source: Mercury News reporting, federal records

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DENIS POROY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Republican gubernatorial candidate Arnold Schwarzenegger speaks at a "town hall"
meeting Friday in San Diego. Questions of the Austrian-born actor's possible
visa violations have surfaced.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      December 3, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Colombian stowaways detained in San Francisco

BYLINE: By the Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. OBT

LENGTH: 138 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in San Francisco on Monday
detained seven men who reportedly stowed away aboard a Colombian ship. The U.S.
Coast Guard escorted the Jupiter into dock in San Francisco Bay at around 4 a.m.

The men -- all between the ages of 20 and 40 and in good health -- were taken
into custody.

Normally, the INS discovers about two dozen people a year trying to smuggle
themselves into the Bay Area on ships, said Sharon Rummery, an INS San Francisco
field office spokeswoman, making this group one of the largest in recent
history.

The men may be sent back to Colombia aboard the same ship -- which left its home
port Nov. 16 and was bringing a load of sugar to the States.

While at sea, the ship's captain radioed the INS saying the men had been found
on the ship, Rummery said.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      October 1, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Davis cites security concerns in veto;
DRIVER'S LICENSES:: SECURITY CONCERNS ARE CITED IN DENYING DOCUMENTATION TO
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 596 words


Gov. Gray Davis vetoed legislation Monday that would have allowed hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants to obtain California driver's licenses, saying
that Sept. 11 had made clear that they are "more than just a license to drive."

"It is one of the primary documents we use to identify ourselves," Davis said.
"A driver's license was in the hands of terrorists who attacked America on that
fateful day."

The concerns Davis cited did not impress Latino supporters of the legislation.

"In one word: unbelievable," said Rini Chakraborty, a spokeswoman for the
California Immigrant Welfare Collaborative.

"This is the third time in the last four years Gov. Davis has refused to sign
this bill, and I think the governor knows how important this issue is to
immigrants, particularly in the Latino community."

The legislation would have allowed as many as 1 million illegal immigrants who
had applied for legal residency and were awaiting their green cards to seek
driver's licenses.

In his veto message, Davis said his opposition to the two bills was strictly
about security. AB 60 and SB 804, Davis said, contained insufficient security
protections to keep licenses away from terrorists and other criminals.

While acknowledging that many immigrants work hard and pay taxes, Davis said the
bills lacked "common-sense protections" such as disqualifying immigrants from
obtaining driver's licenses if they had outstanding arrest warrants for crimes
such as treason, homicide and drug trafficking.

Proponents argued that highways would be safer by having all drivers trained and
insured.

"He vetoed it because he put politics ahead of public safety," said Assemblyman
Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, who wrote the Assembly bill. "He vetoed it because
it doesn't poll well."

Davis had previously said he would sign the Assembly bill after it was packaged
with the Senate bill that required applicants to undergo criminal background
checks.

"This year was, in all honesty, probably the first time we got strong signals
that this governor did want to grant driver's licenses to immigrants, and, yes,
he wanted to sign the bill if the security measures were addressed," Chakraborty
said.

One of the most vocal opponents, the conservative California Coalition for
Immigrant Reform, in Orange County, praised Davis.

"I think he has demonstrated by his veto that he does have concern about the
very lives of American citizens," said Barbara Coe, chairwoman. "Had he issued
this legal document to illegal aliens, many of whom could have been possible
terrorists, he would have certainly illustrated he had no concern."

The legislation would have required that:

* Applicants provide the Department of Motor Vehicles with a full set of
fingerprints, to be forwarded to the Department of Justice for a criminal
background check. Those convicted of felonies related to terrorism, drug
trafficking and violence would have been denied a license.

* Applicants show they had worked at least 15 months in California in the three
years preceding the application.

* The Department of Justice would notify the DMV of any felony warrants
regarding treason, espionage, sabotage, sedition, homicide, kidnapping, sexual
assault, dangerous drugs, sex offenses, flight-escape, smuggling, and crimes
against a person.

Davis had until midnight Monday to act on the legislation, which took on huge
symbolic importance for immigrants, particularly groups representing
California's large Mexican population.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 11, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT MEASURE SURFACES IN RACE;
ACTOR'S PROP. 187 VOTE HIT
CANDIDATES NUMBER 193
SCHWARZENEGGER, WHO HAD VOTED FOR ANTI-ILLEGAL-IMMIGRANT MEASURE, EMPHASIZES HIS
HUMBLE BEGINNINGS TO APPEAL TO LATINOS. SO FAR, 89 OF 193 POTENTIAL CANDIDATES
QUALIFY FOR BALLOT.

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1094 words


Elections officials Sunday put the number of potential candidates for the recall
ballot at 193, as Democrats moved swiftly to undermine the one candidate they
fear most -- Arnold Schwarzenegger -- by trying to discredit him in the eyes of
Latino voters.

Art Torres, chairman of the state Democratic Party, went on the attack after
former Gov. Pete Wilson said he believed the actor voted for Proposition 187,
the 1994 ballot measure that sought to deny government services to illegal
immigrants.

Schwarzenegger's campaign said Sunday that he did vote for the measure, which
alienated many Latinos from the Republican Party.

Torres and Wilson traded barbs on ABC's "This Week With George Stephanopoulos,"
as the California recall dominated the nation's Sunday morning political talk
shows.

"Yes, the California Democratic Party will make this an issue with our
Democratic base, especially in the Latino community," Torres said later in a
statement.

It was the second time in two days that Democrats sought to use the divisive
issue, which has poisoned the GOP's relationship with Latino voters.

Friday, Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante criticized Schwarzenegger's key advisers for
having worked on the campaign for Proposition 187. The measure passed with 60
percent of the vote but was later overturned by the courts.

To sharpen his appeal to Latino voters, Schwarzenegger has portrayed himself as
a man of the people who rose from humble immigrant beginnings to fame and
wealth. His tax returns, made public Sunday, show he earned $26.1 million in
2001 and $31.1 million the year before.

Latino voters

Latinos, who made up one-tenth of the electorate in the last gubernatorial
election, could figure prominently in deciding the recall election, because
votes could be fragmented among many candidates. If the recall passes, and Gov.
Gray Davis loses his job, his replacement will be whoever receives the most
votes among the enormous field of candidates.

By Sunday evening, 89 of the 193 candidates had qualified for the ballot. The
filings of the remaining 104 were still under review.

Today, Secretary of State Kevin Shelley will hold a random drawing to determine
in what order candidates will appear. The ballot order will be different in each
Assembly district.

To appeal to Latinos, Schwarzenegger's advisers are stressing both his immigrant
beginnings and his history of charitable work with poor inner-city kids.
Schwarzenegger's advisers hope those qualities -- along with his action-hero
image -- will put him in contention with Bustamante for at least a slice of the
Latino vote.

"The battle will be for third-generation suburban voters," said Miguel
Contreras, a labor leader in Los Angeles. "Those are the ones, in fact, like
anyone else, who are more likely to be infatuated with a Schwarzenegger
candidacy."

Some of Schwarzenegger's campaign aides worked for Wilson during the Proposition
187 campaign. Don Sipple, who is now working for Schwarzenegger, created the
harsh television commercials promoting the initiative. Referring to illegal
immigrants, a narrator intoned grimly, "They keep coming."

Bustamante on Friday decried a "cynical political strategy" of wedge-issue
politics "that in fact tried to blame immigrants on the economic problems of
California. That's a fact."

Wilson, who used Proposition 187 to buoy his re-election battle and has been
reviled by Latino activists ever since, is co-chair of Schwarzenegger's
campaign.

The campaign also has enlisted two Republican Latino Assembly members, Bonnie
Garcia of El Centro and Abel Maldonado of San Luis Obispo.

"We are very actively engaged in seeking Latino support from the political
spectrum, from the community activists and from the Latino business community,"
said Sean Walsh, an adviser to Schwarzenegger. "Arnold has been there in their
communities for years."

Although he did not appear on the Sunday morning talk show circuit,
Schwarzenegger was ever-present in the comments that other candidates and
politicians made.

Appearing on "Meet the Press," Sen. Dianne Feinstein said that, amid the focus
on Schwarzenegger, she hoped media outlets would give Davis as much attention.

"The governor should have, if it's fair, 50 percent of the coverage," she said.
"And I think he'll have a chance to show himself as a hard-working, transparent,
problem-solving governor."

Bill Simon, last year's Republican nominee for governor, sought to contrast
himself with Schwarzenegger, who has espoused liberal views on social issues,
such as abortion, gun control and gays.

GOP candidates

Four candidates -- Schwarzenegger, Simon, Republican Sen. Tom McClintock from
Thousand Oaks, and former baseball Commissioner Peter Ueberroth -- are the major
contenders for Republican votes.

Simon and McClintock will appeal to conservatives, some of whom have already
begun to turn against Schwarzenegger.

"He apparently has said that he is liberal on the social issues -- I am not,"
Simon said on "Fox News Sunday." "People know where I stand on the social
issues. I have been very specific. I am a conservative in these areas."

RECALL AT A GLANCE
BACKGROUND: Opponents of Gov. Gray Davis gathered more than 1.3 million
validated signatures on a petition to recall him, setting in motion a special
election.
THE ELECTION: Voters go to the polls Oct. 7 to decide whether to recall the
governor and to choose from a list of possible successors, which will not
include Davis himself. Voters can choose a replacement candidate whether they
vote "Yes," "No" or do not cast a vote on the recall question.
THE RESULTS: If there are more "Yes" than "No" votes on the recall, Davis is
removed from office and the candidate with the most votes replaces him as
governor. If there are more "No" votes, Davis remains in office. The winner
serves until Jan. 8, 2007. A new governor could run for re-election once; Davis
cannot run again.
KEY DATES:
Today: Secretary of state conducts a random drawing to determine the order of
candidates on the ballot.
Wednesday: Secretary of state sends a certified list of candidates who have
fulfilled all requirements.
Sept. 22: Last day to register to vote.
Sept. 30: Last day to apply for an absentee ballot.
Oct. 7: Election Day.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Candidate watch
Here is the current status of candidates who have filed to run for governor in
the Oct. 7 special election.
Source: Secretary of State's Office
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE RECALL
WHO SHOULD LEAD CALIFORNIA?
RELATED STORIES: pages 1A, 15A and 16A.
Mercury News Staff Writers Mary Anne Ostrom, Mike Zapler and Mark Gladstone
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Chart;
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
New York Post reporter David K. Li, left, NBC News correspondent George Lewis,
center, and documentary filmmaker Dan Cox, in black T-shirt, review Arnold
Schwarzenegger's tax returns for 2000 and 2001 at a hotel in Santa Monica on
Sunday.
PHOTO: Torres
"Arnold Schwarzenegger is keeping friends with Pete Wilson. What happens when
Arnold becomes governor? Is he going to try to implement 187, which the courts
have partially overturned? Is he going to continue this deregulation back to
it?" State Democratic Party Chairman Art Torres
PHOTO: Wilson
"Mr. Torres and others in the Democratic Party have tried to play the race card.
. . . That was not a vote against Latinos. It was a vote against illegal
immigration and what President Clinton even admitted was federal failure which
he said was, quote, 'unfair to California."' Former Republican Gov. Pete Wilson

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 13, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO ARRESTS 12 IN MIGRANT DEATHS;
AGENTS SEEK 25 MORE IN TRAILER SMUGGLING

BYLINE: WILL WEISSERT, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 460 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Special agents in four Mexican states captured a dozen people accused of
organizing a smuggling operation that killed 19 illegal migrants who were locked
inside an airless tractor-trailer, the government announced Tuesday.

Interior Secretary Santiago Creel and Attorney General Rafael Macedo de la
Concha said authorities have issued arrest warrants for 25 other suspects in
connection with what became one of the deadliest border crossings in U.S.
history.

More than 70 migrants from Mexico, Central America and the Dominican Republic
were being transported from the Texas city of Harlingen to Houston in the
trailer of an 18-wheeler on the night of May 13.

Authorities found 17 migrants dead in the trailer outside a truck stop in
Victoria, Texas. Two others died after being hospitalized. The victims,
including a 5-year-old boy, died from dehydration, hypothermia and suffocation.

Operation organizers

Officials said victims' family members and migrants who survived the deadly
journey led police to Eliseo and Ismael Peralta. The two brothers from the
central state of Guanajuato are believed to have organized a bus trip that took
the migrants to the Mexican side of the border to start the ill-fated smuggling
operation.

Eliseo Peralta is wanted by the FBI, and Mexican authorities say he was a key
member of a people-smuggling gang allegedly headed by Karla Patricia Chavez, a
25-year-old Honduran arrested in June when she tried to enter Guatemala from her
homeland.

Chavez is accused of leading one of three branches of an organization directly
responsible for crowding the 70 migrants into the trailer, Macedo de la Concha
said.

Creel said federal authorities are also working to link Chavez to another border
crossing that ended with the deaths of 11 migrants from Mexico and Central
America. The migrants' badly decomposed bodies were discovered in a locked rail
car in Denison, Iowa, in October.

"She was a chief smuggler in the region," Creel said.

U.S. charges

Chavez was deported to the United States last month to face charges inthe Texas
case, and Creel said Mexican authorities are working with American prosecutors
to prepare more than 50 charges of migrant smuggling against her.

Authorities also arrested suspected migrant smugglers in three other Mexican
states as part of a massive federal operation.

"All of you already know, we don't have to tell you the magnitude of the tragedy
here," Creel said. "But in less than three months we have struck a positive blow
against one of the most important smuggling gangs in the country."

Macedo de la Concha said his office is also investigating whether Mexican or
U.S. border agents took bribes .

"We will not tolerate corruption of any kind," Creel said.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ERIC GAY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
Officials investigate the Texas site in May where 17 illegal migrants were found
dead. Arrests were made this week.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              July 7, 2003 Monday

Council to open workers' resource center

BYLINE: By Malaika Fraley, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words

DATELINE: SAN MATEO


Relief is in site for residents of the Central neighborhood, who have long been
frustrated by the hundreds of immigrant workers congregating along Third and
Fourth avenues each day.

The city announced Thursday that a workers' resource center for day laborers and
anyone else seeking casual employment will open Aug. 4 at Fifth and Railroad
avenues.

The city further revealed that the one-year pilot program will be run by
Samaritan House, a local nonprofit that helps approximately 12,000 needy County
residents a year through a wide variety of programs.

The City Council is scheduled to vote on operator's agreement with Samaritan
House at its meeting tonight.

City officials view the resource center, where workers can also obtain basic
social services, as the most feasible solution to the influx of day laborers on
city streets over the last decade.

Past efforts to get the men and teenage boys off the streets ranging from police
enforcement and outreach to the Immigration and Naturalization Service have been
unsuccessful. Upward of 200 day laborers can be found loitering near the Highway
101 ramps on any given day.

The phenomenon is viewed as an image problem for San Mateo and a public safety
issue, as the workers can be seen dashing across oncoming traffic in the race to
make a living, observers say.

The workers, too, are eager for the center to open. When asked by the Times if
they would use it, they often said they'd prefer going there to waiting on the
street -- if employers will actually use the facility.

The City Council is set to vote on the agreement at its meeting at 7 p.m. in
Council Chambers at City Hall, 330 W. 20th Ave.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              120 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 24, 2003 Friday

San Diego INS arrests 69 foreign workers in Super Bowl sweep

LENGTH: 196 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO (AP)


Nearly 70 foreign-born security guards and drivers working at or around the
Super Bowl were arrested by immigration agents in a three-month operation
designed to ensure the safety of fans.

As part of Operation Game Day, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
arrested 45 security guards and 24 cab drivers. Of those, 34 had criminal
convictions.

Those detained on immigration violations could be deported. Six face prosecution
on federal criminal charges.

The probe targeted workers in industries operating in and around Qualcomm
Stadium who have access to restricted areas.

''In the aftermath of 9-11, our priority is to examine areas that pose the
highest security threat and take appropriate action,'' said Adele J. Fasano,
director of the INS' San Diego district.

INS agents reviewed thousands of employment records from 187 security guard
companies and limousine and shuttle services. Agents also checked the licenses
of more than 3,500 cab drivers.

Most of the security guards arrested are from Latin American countries, while
many of the transportation workers are from 25 countries suspected of having
terrorist cells, immigration officials said.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 25, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Anti-terror laws snarling ski resorts' avalanche work;
FOREIGN WORKERS CAN'T USE EXPLOSIVES

BYLINE: By Robert Gehrke; Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A portion of the homeland security laws designed to keep explosives out of the
hands of terrorists is tying the hands of some ski resorts that use seasonal
workers from Australia and New Zealand to blast jutting snow and ice to help
prevent avalanches.

''It's frustrating from our standpoint because we know these people. These
people have been doing this for years,'' said Jeff Walters, vice president of
mountain operations at Lake Tahoe's Kirkwood Ski Resort, where one-fifth of the
avalanche-control workers are from overseas. ''In my mind they're no threat to
anybody's security. They're a help to any skier that comes to the resort.''

Under changes that took effect Friday, non-resident aliens are not allowed to
possess explosives on the job. Other provisions kick in May 24 that require
background checks and permits for any employee using explosives on the job.

The law was meant to keep high explosives out of the hands of terrorists, Sens.
Herb Kohl, D-Wis., and Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, who pushed the legislation in the
Senate, explained when Congress passed it last year. They noted that several of
the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers were non-immigrant aliens and law enforcement
officials had broken up terrorist cells of aliens in the United States.

But it leaves people like Todd Rudhall, a Kirkwood ski patrol foreman from New
Zealand, in limbo.

Rudhall has worked 19 winters over the past 10 years at ski resorts in New
Zealand and the United States, including 16 as a certified blaster. Now he plans
on leading teams on avalanche-control patrols.

Rudhall and the resort are petitioning the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and
Firearms for an exemption available under the law, but it hasn't been easy
finding the necessary New Zealand authorities to vouch for Rudhall's expertise,
he said.

In the steep, rugged Rocky and Sierra Nevada mountains, avalanches are a threat
that resorts have to deal with.

The Colorado Avalanche Information Center reports that there have been eight
avalanche fatalities in the United States this winter. There were 35 deaths last
year, and avalanches have killed an average of 27 people over the past 10
winters, nearly all of them west of the Rocky Mountains and in Alaska.

As a precaution, resorts send out ski patrollers, generally working in pairs,
who toss sticks of dynamite or other charges into areas prone for slides to
dislodge the snow and ice.

Several resorts in the West run exchange programs, bringing in Australia or New
Zealand crews to work U.S. resorts during the southern hemisphere's summer
months. Walters said some of the foreign patrollers are the most experienced at
the resort.

Safety officials at several resorts and for national organizations emphasized
that the avalanche-control work will still be done and skier safety will not be
affected.

Generally, the legislation has the support of the ski industry, said Larry
Heywood, chairman of an explosives committee for the National Ski Areas
Association, though the logistics remain in doubt.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           October 2, 2002 Wednesday

Immigrant activists protest veto of driver's license bill

BYLINE: By Christina Almeida, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Dozens of immigrant activists held a rally Tuesday to protest Gov. Gray Davis'
veto of legislation that would have granted drivers' licenses to those in the
process of obtaining legal status.

"We are here today to express our collective disappointment at Gov. Gray Davis'
unconscionable veto," said Juan Jose Gutierrez, coordinator of the protest and
director of Latino Movement USA.

Davis vetoed the legislation Monday evening, saying he was concerned about
security risks in licensing non-citizens after last year's terrorist attacks.

Before the Legislature passed the bill, Davis had demanded a series of
safeguards, including fingerprint background checks and coordination with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But on Monday, Davis said there were too many loopholes.

"The tragedy of Sept. 11 made it abundantly clear that the driver's license is
more than just a license to drive; it is one of the primary documents we use to
identify ourselves," Davis said.

Protesters who gathered in front of the Ronald Reagan State Building said they
were offended that Davis mentioned terrorism in his veto announcement.

"We are sick and tired of all these comparisons that paint us as potential
terrorists," Gutierrez said.

Among chants of "No licenses, No vote," protesters vowed they would not support
Davis in his re-election bid.

"It's not right for him to turn his back on us," said Hector Gonzalez, 19, a
student from Los Angeles. "We were the ones to support him, to get him where he
is."

Davis' spokesman ByronTucker said the governor agonized over whether to sign the
bill and ultimately decided the risks were too great.

"Governor Davis has a long and proud history of signing legislation...that has
been beneficial to the Latino community," Tucker said.

He cited other bills, including one that grants mediation rights to farmworkers
embroiled in labor disputes, which Davis signed Monday.

Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, who sponsored the driver's license bill,
issued a statement Tuesday saying Davis betrayed the Hispanic community.

"I am disappointed that the Governor vetoed [the bill], especially given the
fact that the security provisions were his," he said.

Cedillo said he would prepare another bill and introduce it in the next
legislative session.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              123 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            November 15, 2002 Friday

U.S. policy benefits Cubans while rebuffing Haitians

BYLINE: By Sabra Ayres, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Eight Cubans land in Key West aboard a crop-duster and are allowed to remain in
the United States. More than 200 Haitians come ashore aboard a rickety ship near
downtown Miami and are all but certain to be sent back to their desperately poor
homeland.

The two groups' very different fates dramatize what some Haitian-Americans say
is a cruel and racist double standard in U.S. immigration policy, shaped largely
by the Cold War.

"If you come here from a communist country, it's OK. If you come from a white
country, it's OK. If you come here from a black country, noncommunist, it's not
OK," said Jacques Despinosse, a North Miami city councilman who represents the
city's growing Haitian-American community.

For more than 40 years, Cuban refugees have routinely been given asylum in the
United States. Under a "wet-foot, dry-foot" policy adopted by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service in the 1990s, Cubans who reach U.S. soil are
automatically allowed to stay; those caught at sea are sent home.

The government's explanation is that the Cubans are fleeing Fidel Castro's
communist government and are assumed to face political persecution if they are
returned.

Haitians, who represent the latest large wave of immigrants arriving in South
Florida, are usually deported, often after being detained by the INS until their
asylum cases are heard. The government says most of the Haitians are economic,
not political, refugees and not entitled to asylum.

The different policies were thrown into sharp relief by the arrival of the Cuban
family in Key West on Monday and the televised dash for freedom by more than 200
Haitians on Oct. 29.

Rep. Carrie Meek, a black Democrat from Miami, confronted Gov. Jeb Bush during a
campaign stop last month, urging him to contact his brother President Bush and
get him to free the Haitians.

"All you have to do is call -- the wet-foot, dry-foot policy would take effect,"
she said. "You can do it."

Meek and other community leaders have said they will hold a protest march on
Washington in February.

The differing policies on Cuba and Haiti might reflect a difference in political
influence.

South Florida's Cuban-American community has grown into a powerful economic and
political force since the first wave of refugees began arriving more than 40
years ago. Miami-Dade County has an estimated 650,000 Cubans.

The state has elected three Cuban-Americans to Congress, all Miami Republicans:
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Lincoln Diaz-Balart, and Diaz-Balart's brother Mario. The
mayors of Miami-Dade County and the city of Miami are Cuban-Americans, as are a
majority of the county and city commissions.

The Haitian-Americans' political influence has also been growing, spreading from
Miami's Little Haiti into North Miami, but they do not have the clout of the
Cubans. The 2000 Census put South Florida's Haitian community at 150,000, though
advocacy groups said the number is closer to 450,000.

In 2000, North Miami's Philip Brutus became the first Haitian-American elected
to the state Legislature. North Miami's mayor and vice mayor are of Haitian
descent. In 1999, the village of El Portal, just north of Miami, became the
first U.S. community to have a Haitian majority on its governing body.

An analysis of Justice Department statistics on asylum applications handled by
immigration courts in 2000-01 shows the courts denied 88 percent of the asylum
applications submitted by Haitians.

Haitian activists said they are not asking that the wet-foot, dry-foot policy be
taken away from the Cubans. Rather, they want the policy extended to Haitians
trying to escape the poverty and violence of Haiti.

"It isn't a question of Cubans versus Haitians," said Dina Paul Parks of the
National Coalition for Haitian Rights. "It's a question of Haitians versus
everyone else arriving in Miami. It's about the INS choosing folks based on
nationality."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              124 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 7, 2002 Saturday

Day laborers to find refuge

BYLINE: By Malaika Fraley , STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: SAN MATEO


Every day, more than 100 immigrants line Third and Fourth Avenues in north San
Mateo in hopes that someone will offer them work. These are day laborers: men
and teenage boys from Mexico, Guatemala and other Central American countries
ready to paint, garden, or do construction work in exchange for money to support
themselves and their families.

Most of the men are undocumented immigrants who live in neighborhoods around
Highway 101, city officials say. The city of San Mateo has been trying for years
to get them off the streets without resorting to police action.

After months of searching, officials announced Friday that they've finally found
a place to open a day labor center where workers can meet potential employers,
and also access services such as English and job training classes.

"The intent is to have a center where people can come, and the contractors can
come, and there would be some educational components while they're waiting,"
Community Development Director Bob Beyer said. "Our goal is to have it open and
operating by the 1st of February."

The center would be at 302

Eighth Ave., a 5,701 square-foot meeting hall recently vacated by a local
electrical workers union. The first floor would be the designated center, and
the city could rent out the upper office space.

A group of men standing outside the 7-Eleven at Delaware Street and Third Avenue
said they would welcome such a place to go.

"It's a good idea," one man said through a Spanish translator. "A lot better
than standing in the street doing nothing."

We could take classes that would help us instead of wasting time," he said. "A
lot of [day laborers] get picked up all the time, but some don't work for days."

The City Council is expected to decide whether to buy the building Monday night
in closed talks before a special meeting with the Planning Commission and
Redevelopment Agency. If they say no, the search for a site will continue.

One drawback of the meeting hall is that no parking is available, and people who
hire workers almost always come in cars. But planners are exploring the
feasibility of a white-zone offering limited parking.

Another drawback is that the site is five blocks from where the men congregate,
and city officials have said they want the center to be as close to Third and
Fourth avenue corridors as possible.

The nonprofit group Volunteers of America would likely support and operate the
center, although no formal agreement has been made. The group already runs a day
laborer center in Oakland that has been mostly successful, said San Mateo
Neighborhood Improvement and Housing Manager Robert Muehlbauer. Calls to the
Volunteers of America went unreturned Friday.

Muehlbauer said the center would help stop the victimization of workers, who
sometimes are cheated out of their pay or are left stranded far from home after
a day's work. It would also ensure that employers, contractors and private
individuals pay the proper withholding taxes.

The community's stance on a day labor center has been mixed. Some view the men
as a nuisance and want the country's immigration policies enforced. Others say
the workers are clean and respectful and don't mind their presence as long as
they don't cause any trouble.

"One fear raised is that a day labor center would draw other people into the
community," said Beyer. "While that could happen if the center is very
successful, it's not one of our concerns."

Staff writer Malaika Fraley covers San Mateo. She can be reached at 348-4337 or
by e-mail at mfraley@angnewspaper.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              125 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 12, 2002 Thursday

Most of 900 detained by feds following Sept. 11 now free;
Only six still in custody, after deportations, convictions

BYLINE: By Curt Anderson, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 924 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The vast majority of the more than 900 people the federal government
acknowledges detaining after the Sept. 11 attacks have been deported, released
or convicted of relatively minor crimes not directly related to terrorism,
government documents show.

An undisclosed number -- most likely in the dozens -- are or were held as
material witnesses, people the government asked a court to detain because they
may have direct knowledge or connection to terrorism.

At the request of the Associated Press, the Justice Department provided its most
thorough public accounting of the people arrested in the immediate aftermath of
the attacks.

Only six of the 765 people arrested by the federal government on immigration
violations still are held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
rest have been deported or are free in the United States awaiting a final
decision on whether they can stay. Some will be permitted to remain in this
country because they cooperated in the investigation, Justice Department
officials say.

An additional 134 people were charged with criminal offenses, with 99 found
guilty through pleas or trials. Many of the crimes bear no direct connection to
terrorism. The Justice Department said lesser charges often are used to get a
dangerous person off the streets before more serious crimes are committed.

In a statement that accompanied the documents on the arrests, the department
said it "has not, and will not, hesitate to use any available charge or tool to
remove dangerous individuals from the streets and protect American lives."

The effort has drawn criticism from public interest groups, which are battling
the government in court to obtain disclosure of the names and circumstances of
those arrested -- many of whom spent weeks or months in custody for relatively
minor offenses.

Critics are concerned that such mass arrests, even in time of war, could be a
prelude to more serious threats against civil liberties and constitutional
rights.

"I believe the administration has already overstepped its bounds, and we should
take it to task for that now," said Geoffrey Stone, law professor at the
University of Chicago. "We as a nation do not want to wait to raise the cry
until after the government has moved to more extreme measures."

Justice officials say the detentions and legal processes were fair and met
constitutional obligations.

"As in other criminal investigations, we seek to bring to justice those
responsible for the attacks," said department spokeswoman Barbara Comstock on
Wednesday. "This investigation, however, has another important purpose as well
-- to protect Americans from additional acts of terror."

Many of the criminal charges involved visa or passport forgery, perjury,
identification fraud and illegal possession of weapons. But they also include
the counts brought against Zacarias Moussaoui, the only person charged in
connection with the Sept. 11 hijackings, and those against attempted shoe-bomber
Richard Reid.

The most common immigration violations were overstaying a visa, illegal entry or
entering the country by fraud.

Steven Shapiro, national legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union,
said it is clear that dozens of people with no connection to terrorism "just got
caught up in this dragnet."

He said the sweep was comparable, on a lesser scale, to previous U.S. actions
such as internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II and blacklists of
suspected communists during the Cold War.

"This country has repeatedly overreacted in the face of threats and perceived
threats," Shapiro said. "We have always looked back later and regretted what we
did."

Counting local and state detentions, about 1,200 people were rounded up in the
terrorism investigation shortly after the attacks. The numbers released by the
Justice Department do not include those local cases or more recent ones, such as
the arrests of six men alleged to be members of an al-Qaida cell based near
Buffalo, N.Y.

The Justice documents do not say how many of the 281 people released so far had
nothing to do with or no knowledge of the terror attacks. Many of these people
could still be deported, pending the outcome of their immigration cases, but
were released because they were determined to pose no threat to the United
States.

In some cases, the government decided to simply deport someone it could have
prosecuted for a crime, according to Justice officials. The documents say
prosecutions were avoided in some cases to prevent disclosure of sensitive
intelligence sources and methods or classified evidence.

The rest of the detainees are or were being held as material witnesses, which
critics contend can be a way to keep someone in custody indefinitely without
charge.

Justice officials defend the practice, saying a judge must approve whether a
person can be held as a material witness -- and only then if the person has
information relevant to an investigation and might be a flight risk.

Justice officials refuse to disclose even the total number of material
witnesses, citing prohibitions against releasing the ongoings of secret grand
jury investigations.

The government continues to resist releasing the names of any detainees, which
22 public interest groups are seeking through lawsuits in federal court.
Officials say al-Qaida and other groups could find out how the United States
tracks down terrorists or learn other secrets if the names were made public.

------

On the Net:

Justice Department: www.usdoj.gov

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              126 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 12, 2002 Thursday

Don't talk

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: MADDEN MATTERS


THE San Mateo Union High School District's adult school is a thriving operation.
Based on numbers alone, it's the biggest single district endeavor, with an
estimated 14,000 students.

And by far the most significant aspect of the adult school -- which offers
classes in 42 locations throughout the mid-San Mateo County area -- involves
immigrants, especially those with limited English skills.

Along with English courses, those newcomers also can take advantage of
citizenship classes.

But a perplexed reader has forwarded something to us that speaks volumes about
the tangled state of immigrant affairs in this neck of the woods today -- and
not just in the local school district.

The item in question is a poster found at the adult school's headquarters in San
Mateo last week. The material, discovered in the student lounge, is a product of
the National Lawyers Guild and the United Response Collaborative.

Written in five languages, the poster proclaims that even if one is not a U.S.
citizen he or she does not have to:

- Answer any questions by the police, FBI, INS [Immigration and Naturalization
Service] or other law enforcement agents. Do not talk without a lawyer. Say you
want to see a lawyer.

- Sign any paper without a lawyer with you.

- Let the police, FBI, INS or anyone else come into your house without a
'warrant' [special paper from a judge].

- Answer any questions about your immigration status.

Other than that, fresh arrivals on these shores presumably are encouraged to
cooperate fully with American authorities.

A spokesman for the adult school said there appeared to be nothing out of line
with the placement of the poster. "It sounds like an advertisement for legal
services more than anything else," he said.

Welcome to the land of litigious opportunity.

Fans of model railroading can get their fix this week in Menlo Park. The West
Bay Model Railroad Association will open its extensive layout for public viewing
Friday from 7 to 10 p.m., Saturday from noon to 6 p.m. and Sunday from noon to 5
p.m. The exhibit is located just south of the Menlo Park Caltrain depot.
Admission is free. Call 322-9335 for information.

Marti Knight, a former member of the Burlingame City Council, now lives in the
Sierra Nevada foothills. Her rural property includes lots of impressive trees.
One of them now graces downtown Sacramento. The 75-foot white fir is the state
capital's official holiday tree. It seems fitting. After all, Knight's previous
hometown unofficially dubs itself "City of Trees.

Want to know more about pro football guru John Madden? The Serramonte branch of
the Daly City Public Library is featuring materials on Madden's connection with
that North County community. He's a Jefferson High School graduate and a member
of the County Sports Hall of Fame. The Serramonte branch is located at 40
Wembley Drive.For those without benefit of e-mail, you can get in touch with
John Horgan by telephone at 348-4334, by fax at 348-4446 and by regular snail
mail at P.O. Box 5400, San Mateo 94402.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              127 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 17, 2002 Tuesday

Deadline to register at INS passes;
Males from specific countries must be fingerprinted, photographed, interviewed

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 588 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A slow trickle of men from five Middle Eastern and African countries made their
way into the Immigration and Naturalization Service's San Francisco offices on
Monday, the last day for them to complete a required special registration with
the agency.

Also, the Justice Department on Monday announced a new phase of the registration
program, including visitors from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. The current list
includes people from five countries considered by the U.S. State Department to
be sponsors of terrorism -- Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria.

By today, certain non-immigrant visa holders from the selected countries --
largely students, workers and people making extended visits to family members --
were required to report to their local INS office to be fingerprinted,
photographed and interviewed, so the agency can make sure they are doing what
they said they would and living where they said they would, said Sharon Rummery,
spokeswoman for the INS's San Francisco district. The registration process
applies to males ages 16 and older.

Male visa holders from another 13 countries -- Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain,
Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United
Arab Emirates and Yemen -- are required to register by Jan. 10.

Those who willfully fail to register could be kicked out of the country, while
others who may not have known they were required to register would not --
although Rummery would not say how the INS could tell the difference. The INS
spread word of the registration through community-based organizations, Rummery
said.

But Rummery could not say whether anyone would face penalties if their visa
status came into question.

"Of course, we are hitting them up against databases, criminal databases,"
Rummery said.

Rummery didn't know how many people had come to register throughout the San
Francisco district, which stretches from Bakersfield to the Oregon border. But
INS officials said they hoped to register 100,000 visa holders nationally by
today.

Some 1,989 visa holders from those five countries entered the U.S. through San
Francisco in the 2000 federal fiscal year, according to INS statistics, many
likely here for short visits. Newer numbers were not available.

At least one person registering Monday questioned whether the registration would
protect America.

"If they started [registering people] before Sept. 11, I don't think it would
have prevented [the attacks]," said Khalid Hamza of Martinez, who is working and
attending school in the Bay Area.

Hamza, who has dual Canadian and Sudanese citizenship, said he didn't know he
had to register until Sunday, when he saw something about the registration
process on his work Web site. He still wasn't sure if he was required to
register.

"I had to leave work and just come," Hamza said. "We're here as a guest. So we
have to comply with the law."

Some advocates of stronger immigration controls, however, applauded the INS
registration as a first step toward better monitoring of all foreign visitors.
Dan Stein executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
said, "This program is not enough. It's hardly any kind of unexpected intrusion
... and it's vital for national security."

The registration process is part of a larger program to register foreign
visitors when they enter and exit the United States. A full system is scheduled
to be in place by 2005.

MediaNews Washington bureau writer Bill McAllister contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              128 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 19, 2002 Thursday

Post 9/11 America: Welcoming tourists with open cuffs;
Travel industry is losing money and blames strict INS enforcement of visa rules
as part of the reason

BYLINE: By Ian Stewart, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Travel executives say the nation's

$91 billion foreign tourism industry is in peril because of a growing perception
overseas that the United States has become "Fortress America."

In the year after the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, 66 million
fewer visitors tried to enter the United States, according to Immigration and
Naturalization Service figures. And those who did try were sent back home at a
higher rate than the year before.

Travel industry executives complain that the post-Sept. 11 security crackdown at
airports -- especially some widely publicized incidents in which visitors were
searched, interrogated and put on a plane back home -- has discouraged tourism.

"There is an impression being made that we are creating a Fortress America,"
said Rick Webster, a spokesman for the Travel Industry Association of America.

INS officials recognize the concerns but say their first priority is to secure
all borders.

"We're not trying to discourage foreign tourists, but they need to make sure
their documents are in good standing," said INS spokesman Francisco Arcaute in
Los Angeles. "After 9/11, we have to look into any possible visa problem."

Travel to the United States was down 17 percent in the first six months of 2001,
and more than 345,000 tourism-related jobs have been lost since the attacks,
about a third of which served foreign tourists, according to the travel industry
group.

INS figures show 700,807 people were denied entry between September 2000 and
September 2001 at airports, borders and ports -- one of every 714 trying to
enter. During the 12 months after the attacks, 733,440 visitors, or one of every
625 people, were turned away.

The visitors include students, refugees and vacationers, many of whom spent
considerable amounts of money to reach the United States.

At some airports, INS inspectors have become so strict about paperwork problems
that they are turning away thousands more tourists.

Many rejections are happening under the radar. Decisions by INS inspectors at
airports are final, and tourists have no right to legal counsel once inside an
airport's immigration sector. Most rejected travelers are quickly sent home and
not heard from again.

"You don't have any rights once they've got their claws into you," said New
Zealander Maggie Anderson, whose treatment at the Los Angeles airport over the
summer made front-page headlines in her home country.

Anderson, a 51-year-old former flight attendant and frequent U.S. visitor, was
handcuffed and made to spread her legs for a rubber-glove search after an
inspector noticed she once overstayed her visa by eight days four visits
previously.

After 21 hours of questioning in an INS detention center, she was sent back to
New Zealand, where she got her paperwork in order. A week later and another
plane ticket poorer, she was able to reunite with her American husband in
California.

"I'm not knocking what they are trying to do," Anderson said. "But my fear is
they're wasting their time on the wrong people."

Arcaute said INS officials handled the case by the book. "In the case of Mrs.
Anderson, it was nothing personal," he said.

Still, the incident -- and Anderson's protests through her embassy -- did prompt
a review of procedures, he said.

Foreign visitors who don't speak English can be even more intimidated by INS
authorities, and their cases may never be noticed, advocates say.

Some foreigners may have become even more alarmed when the Bush administration
in June proposed eliminating automatic six-month visas for most travelers and
giving INS inspectors the authority to decide, on visitors' arrival, how long
they can stay. More than 10,000 comments, mostly negative, have been lodged
since it was published in the federal register, according to INS. The proposal
has not been enacted.

Immigration lawyer Brenda Boudreaux of San Francisco said problems arise when
inspectors follow the letter of the law so closely that they treat tourists like
criminals over minor paperwork problems.

"There is a definite need to be more cautious, but some inspectors are just
being unreasonable with innocent people who not only have a legal right to be
here, but who are needed here," Boudreaux said.------

On the Net:

Immigration and Naturalization Service: www.ins.gov

Travel Industry Association: www.tia.org

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              129 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 21, 2002 Saturday

INS detentions of Middle Eastern men not about security, critics say

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 784 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service detained at least 10 men who showed
up at its San Francisco office to register with the government, said attorneys
working to free the men.

Male visitors 16 and older from five countries -- Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and
Syria -- were required to report to INS offices by Monday to be fingerprinted,
photographed and interviewed. Men visiting from another 15 countries are also
expected to go through the process.

INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery confirmed that her office had made arrests but
would not say how many.

Advocates for the men said 10 or more -- most of them born in Iran -- were
detained during the first phase of registrations and may be deported, and more
were arrested this week. Hundreds of men also were rounded up in Southern
California this week.

Advocates expressed outrage about the detentions, saying the agency is profiling
Muslims and Arabs unfairly and that it is treating innocent people as criminals.

They are comparing the detentions of these men and others who registered
elsewhere to those of Japanese-Americans during World War II.

"Because people have complied with the law in this case, they are being
penalized," said Nancy Hormachea, an Oakland lawyer defending two men accused of
overstaying their visas, one of whom has lived in the U.S. since he was 12.

"INS is defeating their own purpose. Once the word gets out, nobody is going to
show up for this," Hormachea said.

Family members lined part of the hallway outside a visiting room at the INS on
Thursday, struggling to understand the fate of their loved ones.

Mandona Hajizadh came from Sacramento to see her brother-in-law, a Berkeley
dental technician, who was detained when he came to register Dec. 5. Apparently
his case involves a 1998 paperwork snafu that occurred when he traveled to
Canada for a work conference, she said.

"INS gives you the permission and allows you to leave the country and come back.
And now they are detaining him based on that permission," Hajizadh said.

Her brother-in-law has since volunteered to leave the country, she said, and has
also been granted a court hearing for next week, said Banafsheh Akhlaghi, an
attorney who is working with some of the detainees.

But others may not receive hearings for a few more weeks, and could be stuck in
jail while they wait, she said.

"These folks, for the most part, have not entered the country illegally. They
came in legally," Ahklaghi said. "They are professionals who believed they
integrated into this society. They didn't believe this government would detain
them. That's why they walked in."

Advocates described the detention process as chaotic, saying there seemed to be
no rhyme or reason to who the INS is detaining and where. They also said the men
are being treated poorly in custody.

Heba Nimr of INS Watch said officials told her one of the detainees was going to
be moved to a facility in Arizona but was released Thursday instead.

Akhlaghi said several of her clients were bounced all over the country and ended
up in San Diego, and that the agency didn't inform her or her clients' families,
making it impossible for her to ask for a bond hearing because they don't know
which INS district has jurisdiction over the men.

INS spokeswoman Rummery could not confirm the moves.

Nimr accused the agency of purposely creating confusion over the registration
process, saying it was not entirely clear who was supposed to register.

An INS official said this week that most of those registering would be people on
long-term visas -- students, workers and people making long family visits.

Akhlaghi said several of her clients had applied to be permanent residents. Four
had their residency applications approved and await completion of the process.

The INS official said those people are here illegally and that the agency must
enforce immigration laws against them. But immigration attorneys said they are
the victims of the agency's inability to quickly process residency paperwork --
it can take years.

Nimr said the registration system is meant to make the INS look like it is doing
something, not to enhance security.

"I don't think it's about getting terrorists," she said. "People are saying
[that] anyone with any intention of committing any serious crime in this country
is not going to come and get themselves fingerprinted."

Michele R. Marcucci can be reached at mmarcucci@angnewspapers.com .

"I don't think it's about getting terrorists. People are saying [that] anyone
with any intention of committing any serious crime in this country is not going
to come and get themselves fingerprinted."

Heba Nimr

INS WATCH

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              130 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 21, 2002 Saturday

INS holds special registrants

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 710 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service detained at least 10 men who showed
up at its San Francisco office to register with the government, said attorneys
working to free the men.

Male visitors 16 and older from five countries -- Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and
Syria -- were required to report to INS offices by Monday to be fingerprinted,
photographed and interviewed. Men visiting from another 15 countries are also
expected to go through the process.

INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery confirmed that her office had made arrests but
would not say how many.

Advocates for the men said 10 or more -- most of them born in Iran -- were
detained during the first phase of registrations and may be deported, and more
were arrested this week. Hundreds of men also were rounded up in Southern
California this week.

Advocates expressed outrage about the detentions, saying the agency is profiling
Muslims and Arabs unfairly and that it is treating innocent people as criminals.

They are comparing the detentions of these men and others who registered
elsewhere to those of Japanese-Americans during World War II.

"Because people have complied with the law in this case, they are being
penalized," said Nancy Hormachea, an Oakland lawyer defending two men accused of
overstaying their visas, one of whom has lived in the U.S. since he was 12.

"INS is defeating their own purpose. Once the word gets out, nobody is going to
show up for this," Hormachea said.

Family members lined part of the hallway outside a visiting room at the INS on
Thursday, struggling to understand the fate of their loved ones.

Mandona Hajizadh came from Sacramento to see her brother-in-law, a Berkeley
dental technician, who was detained when he came to register Dec. 5. Apparently
his case involves a 1998 paperwork snafu that occurred when he traveled to
Canada for a work conference, she said.

"INS gives you the permission and allows you to leave the country and come back.
And now they are detaining him based on that permission," Hajizadh said.

But others may not receive hearings for a few more weeks, and could be stuck in
jail while they wait, she said.

These folks, for the most part, have not entered the country illegally. They
came in legally, Ahklaghi said. They are professionals who believed they
integrated into this society. They didn't believe this government would detain
them. That's why they walked in.

Advocates described the detention process as chaotic, saying there seemed to be
no rhyme or reason to who the INS is detaining and where. They also said the men
are being treated poorly in custody.

Heba Nimr of INS Watch said officials told her one of the detainees was going to
be moved to a facility in Arizona but was released Thursday instead.

Akhlaghi said several of her clients were bounced all over the country and ended
up in San Diego, and that the agency didn't inform her or her clients' families,
making it impossible for her to ask for a bond hearing because they don't know
which INS district has jurisdiction over the men.

INS spokeswoman Rummery could not confirm the moves.

Nimr accused the agency of purposely creating confusion over the registration
process, saying it was not entirely clear who was supposed to register.

An INS official said this week that most of those registering would be people on
long-term visas -- students, workers and people making long family visits.

Akhlaghi said several of her clients had applied to be permanent residents. Four
had their residency applications approved and await completion of the process.

The INS official said those people are here illegally and that the agency must
enforce immigration laws against them. But immigration attorneys said they are
the victims of the agency's inability to quickly process residency paperwork --
it can take years.

Nimr said the registration system is meant to make the INS look like it is doing
something, not to enhance security.

I don't think it's about getting terrorists, she said. People are saying [that]
anyone with any intention of committing any serious crime in this country is not
going to come and get themselves fingerprinted.

/creditMichele R. Marcucci can be reached at mmarcucci@angnewspapers.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              131 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 23, 2002 Monday

Immigrants skipping air travel;
Many driving to Mexico for holidays

BYLINE:  , Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA


More immigrant families that travel home to Mexico for the holidays are driving
instead of flying because of concerns over terrorism and heightened airport
security, according to travel agents and residents in Southern California.

This Christmas season, the Mexican government expects to issue 240,000 temporary
permits to automobiles entering the country, about 20 percent more than last
year, according to Mario Perez, the Los Angeles representative for Paisano, a
public program that assists travelers.

"To prepare for the influx, the government in Mexico has added about 600 border
workers, double the usual number," Perez said.

Scared by the events of Sept. 11, thousands of immigrants from Mexico canceled
their annual flights home last year. This year, many of them intend to resume
the holiday tradition of celebrating Christmas with relatives across the border.

But while the Mexican government estimates that more than one million people
living in the United States will return to the country this holiday season, the
events of Sept. 11, 2001 are affecting the preferred mode of travel.

Some travelers worried about airport security or their own immigration status
are opting not to fly, particularly people from places like Orange County who
feel that heading to Los Angeles International Airport just isn't worth it.

"The airport revisions are making people nervous," said Marcela Prado, a Santa
Ana travel agent whose office has seen a 40 percent drop in holiday ticket
sales. "People would rather go to Tijuana and fly, or go in a car. Either way is
less expensive and less hassle."

The Mexican deputy consul in Santa Ana, Alberto Bernal, said his office has
talked to many Mexicans who fear they would be headed for trouble at LAX. He
said they typically want to find out how to obtain additional identification
before buying airline tickets.

"It's a logical fear because there may be people who don't have identification
or don't have enough of it, and they don't know what to expect at the airport,"
he said.

Some travelers to Mexico are also nervous about boarding a flight that
originates in the United States due to lingering worries that their plane could
be targeted by terrorists.

"I don't care about heavy inspections of our luggage, because it's just clothes
inside. But I do worry about the rest. I'm afraid the plane is going to fall
from the sky," said Marta Madrigal of Garden Grove, who opted this year to take
a bus to the Tijuana airport instead of leaving from LAX.

Similar fears prompted Antonio Guerrero, 37, a Santa Ana construction worker, to
arrange for his family to get to Guadalajara by taking a bus to Tijuana and then
borrowing a friend's car, a 40-hour trip.

"For us, it just made sense," he said.

"My wife got scared of the airports. "

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              132 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             January 6, 2003 Monday

INS 'bait and switch' undercuts purpose

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 778 words


CALL it what you will -- "bait and switch," a "dragnet" or "sting" operation --
the Immigration and Naturalization Service needs to find a friendlier way to get
visa holders from nations with terrorist connections to stop by its nearest
office to register, have photographs taken and get fingerprinted.

After Dec. 16, the "voluntary" nature of such efforts may be AWOL [absent
without leave] despite Friday's deadline, when male visa bearers from 13 other
nations -- including Afghanistan, Algeria, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman,
Qatar, Somalia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen -- are supposed to register.
What happened to hundreds of temporary visa holders from Iran, Iraq, Libya,
Syria and Sudan last month has not been lost on them. And it probably doesn't
bode well for voluntary drop-ins by Pakistanis and Saudis working, visiting and
going to school here, who must register between Jan. 13 and Feb. 21.

It's apt to leave a bitter aftertaste when you ask folks to voluntarily drop by
and, when they do, arrest and handcuff them, fly them around the country,
shoehorn them into detention centers with hundreds of others, interrogate them
and deprive them of contact with families and lawyers as well as medicine,
sleep, decent food and other day-to-day amenities.

But that's just what the INS did to at least a dozen residents of the Bay Area
and hundreds from Southern California during the first phase of this "special
registration" drive.

Victims were, in their words, "treated like a criminal for days" before being
released or charged and kept in custody. Immigration lawyers also say
professionals who showed up voluntarily were treated like scofflaws. An
Arab-American coalition has filed a class-action lawsuit to prevent such mass
detentions from happening again. It also accuses the INS of unlawfully arresting
and detaining men without proper warrants.

It was a classic, muscle-headed faux pas that had the opposite effect of its
intent. The detention process seemed highly disorganized, heavy-handed and
wrongheaded. It is not the way to treat people who have contributed to our
society and often had lived here most of their lives. Many thought of themselves
mainly as Americans before Sept. 11 and Dec. 16.

It scared and alienated residents and visitors from the Middle East and
elsewhere, triggering denunciations from Muslims, other nations and U.S.
citizens. The pro-American son of the former shah of Iran took out a full-page
ad denouncing the "unfair targeting" of Iranian immigrants.

It didn't need to be that way. The shuttling of persons around the nation and
overcrowding of jails demonstrates that there was no plan and minimal
forethought about how to handle the various puzzles registrants posed. It was
not well thought out and even more poorly executed.

The INS said hundreds were arrested for violating temporary visas that allow
them to work, study or visit the United States for set lengths of time. Some had
overstayed visas and others had expired visas. But there should be routine,
proper, fair and humane ways of dealing with such violations.

As usual, however, the INS found a wrong way to do it. It has a legacy of
turning victories into defeats, silk purses into sows' ears. If any federal
agency can find a way to stomp on human rights, heap indignities on visitors and
treat people callously, it's the INS.

We say that while agreeing with the need for a registration program. There is
nothing wrong with the federal government keeping track of visitors from nations
that have terrorist connections and histories. If we had been doing it all
along, Sept. 11, 2001, might have been averted. We were too lax. Before Sept.
11, no one tracked whether foreigners here on temporary visas went to the
schools, worked the jobs or otherwise adhered to the stated purposes for their
visits. They simply disappeared into America's welcoming maw without the INS
knowing where they were or what happened to them.

It was an honor system without verification that had to be changed. But there's
a wrong way and a right way to do it. And, the way we did it Dec. 16 was
self-defeating. We can't just trample on human dignity and rights and expect it
not to have consequences.

While most who abided by the rules and showed up to register weren't arrested,
the "gotcha" approach used with others was a mistake. It ran counter to the
values of a nation built on the drive, will, intelligence, initiative,
creativity, values and entrepreneurial skills of people from every nation,
ethnic, cultural, racial and religious group on Earth.

We must do all we can to make sure it doesn't happen again.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              133 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           January 8, 2003 Wednesday

Muslim, Arab-American groups prepare for INS deadline

BYLINE: By Deborah Kong, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Trying to prevent mass arrests, several groups are tracking citizens of 13
mostly Middle Eastern countries as they register at INS offices to meet a Friday
deadline.

The Muslim, Arab-American and civil liberties groups want to prevent a repeat of
detentions that took place in Southern California last month when visitors from
five other countries were required to register.

INS officials said about 400 men were detained for suspected violations of
criminal or immigration laws. Most were released within three days.

By Friday, another 7,000 men from countries considered high risks for terrorist
activity must check in under the National Security Entry-Exit Registration
System. Civil liberties advocates say the program is an inefficient way to find
terrorists, and will only alienate a group that could help the government.

"What we're hoping is that we don't have what happened in L.A. happen here,"
said Heba Nimr, an attorney for La Raza Centro Legal's INS Watch, who has been
recording the names of men entering the Immigration and Naturalization Service
building in San Francisco. "It helps us make sure folks don't get lost in the
system. We want them to know we're watching."

Clipboard in hand, Nimr roamed up and down the line outside the INS building
this week, pausing to ask men if they were there for the special registration
program. Some nodded warily.

Nimr told the men she wanted to make sure they didn't get lost in the INS
system. Some gave her their names and INS alien number, plus phone numbers of
attorneys, relatives and friends. She asked them to check back with her when
they left the building.

Zouvir Achour gave his name to Laura Farha, a volunteer working with Nimr.

"It's a good thing. At least someone is watching," said Achour, a Tunisian who
lives in San Francisco.

While he thinks registration is "a normal process," the 28-year-old student said
he also feels his privacy is being compromised by having to tell authorities
where he lives and goes to school -- and to submit to being fingerprinted and
photographed.

"I'm the most peaceful person on earth," he said.

Nimr and a handful of other, mostly Arab-American and South Asian U.S. citizens,
have pledged to monitor the registrations in San Francisco all week. The Muslim
Public Affairs Council in Los Angeles and chapters in at least 15 cities also
were setting up monitoring efforts.

National groups such as the Council on American-Islamic Relations and the
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee are generally advising men to
register, but urging them to consult a lawyer before they go. Women are not
required to register.

In Michigan, CAIR e-mailed mosques about the deadline, while the Arab-American
Family Support Center distributed fliers about the registration and is sending
attorneys, staff and volunteers to translate and provide legal advice at the INS
office in New York City.

"People are really frightened by what happened in California," said Emira Habiby
Browne, executive director of the center.

Friday's registration deadline applies to men 16 and older from the following
countries: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North
Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

Another 14,000 men from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan have until Feb. 21 to
register.

The program applies to temporary visitors, including businessmen and students.
Those who fail to register could be deported.

The effort is separate from the detention of more than 900 people shortly after
the Sept. 11 attacks. The Justice Department says that only about 60 of those
people remain in custody.

"We're doing what the American people want us to do," said Justice Department
spokesman Jorge Martinez.But advocates have denounced the program. The arrests
in Southern California prompted a lawsuit against the federal government and a
protest that drew thousands.

It's trying to find a needle in a haystack -- a very expensive, inefficient
haystack, said Sarah Eltantawi, spokeswoman for the Muslim Public Affairs
Council in Los Angeles. I don't think that the terrorists will go register.

Instead, she said, registrations will alienate a community whose help we all
need for our national security.

--------

On the Net:

INS: www.ins.usdoj.gov

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              134 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            January 12, 2003 Sunday

East Bay immigrants hopes to help old country

BYLINE:  Melissa Evans - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1467 words


IT IS CUSTOM in Afghanistan, following the death of a loved one, to spend a year
in mourning. Women wear no makeup and rarely venture outside.

Men recount stories and share memories of the life that has ended with those too
young to remember.

It's a custom that has continued - literally and figuratively - for the
estimated 12,000 to 15,000 Afghans who have come to the East Bay in search of
better lives.

A year ago, hundreds of Afghans mourned after Rahim Ansari - who personified the
American dream for many who moved here from Afghanistan - was shot to death in
his Fremont travel agency.

A year ago, Afghan immigrants watched as the United States - their adopted
country - bombed the barren hills of their homeland, flushing out and killing
Taliban leaders and followers but also killing and injuring hundreds of
civilians.

It has been a year of sadness, many agree.

But in accordance with Afghan custom, struggle always is followed by healing and
hope for a better future.

When he was 15, Rahim Ansari walked for seven days to reach Afghanistan's border
with Pakistan. Two years later, he found his way to the United States, where he
established a successful business - Pamir Travel - in the two-block stretch of
Fremont's Centerville area sometimes referred to as "Little Kabul." Ansari then
helped his family emigrate.

His story came to symbolize the dream of thousands of others who escaped a
country ruled by communists and later the Taliban - forces that stifled progress
in Afghanistan for 23 years.

Many of the immigrants came to Fremont, where "Little Kabul" emerged as the
center of the Afghan business community, and to Hayward, where many worship at
the East Bay's Afghan mosque.

Here they have established food markets, salons, video stores, restaurants and
other small businesses in an area already known for its diversity.

"I think most people don't see [Afghans] any different than anybody else," said
Fremont Mayor Gus Morrison. He added that the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks
and the events that followed spurred a curiosity about Afghan culture.

"I think the tragedy of 9/11 actually brought the Afghan community [into the
mainstream] more than it separated them," Morrison said.

But many Afghans and Middle Easterners say they still are victims of racism -
particularly as Middle Eastern men register with the Immigration and
Naturalization Services Department as part of a post-Sept. 11 law enacted to
track those without citizenship. Many ignored the deadline Friday, fearful amid
reports of arrest and mistreatment.

Some argue that the Bush administration is sending two different messages when
it comes to acceptance of all people.

"The president has been asking the world community for tolerance. Why not follow
the standard he has set?" said Agha Saeed, president of the American Muslim
Alliance.

In the wake of the terrorist attacks, the American public learned more about
Afghanistan, the Afghan people and the Taliban. Even Afghan Americans learned
more, said Nasir Durami, co-chair of the Fremont-based Afghan Center, a relief
organization.

Before the attacks, he said, most Afghans who had come to the United States were
unaware of the Taliban's oppressive tendencies.

"Many thought them to simply be students of Islam," he said. "As this whole
thing unraveled, it really revealed the magnitude of the involvement of the
terrorists."

Helping those back home

In the past year, the local Afghan community has poured much of its energy into
helping those they left behind.

Many immigrants say they feel torn - even a sense of guilt - as they read
headlines about the victims of land mines, the lack of food and shelter and the
U.S. air-strikes that continued through July.

But with the doors to Afghanistan slowly beginning to open, there was good news,
too. Many visited the country last year on behalf of Bay Area relief
organizations, bringing money raised here for a number of causes.

After one trip, representatives of San Francisco-based American Friends Service
Committee returned with plans for a girls school, an orphanage, a mental health
center and a job training center for widows in Afghanistan.

Fremont resident Shahla Arsala, director of the Afghan Widows Project, and
Oakland resident Nima Sadati, head of an organization called In The Name Of God,
have raised about $12,000 to open a training center for women in Jalalabad.

Through fund raising and contributions, Arsala and Sadati bought a nine-bedroom
house where 160 women learn skills such as sewing and cooking."The women were so
happy," Arsala said. "This is something to give them skills they need to find
jobs, and also a boost to their self-esteem."

Political influence

In June, a local woman got a chance to do more than provide relief. Rona Popal,
executive director of the Fremont-based Afghan Coalition, was selected as one of
four U.S. delegates to participate in her native country's loya jirga - or grand
council - to elect new Afghan leaders.

With backing from the United States, Hamid Karzai was selected as interim leader
of the country. The drafting of a constitution and democratic elections are
slated to take place at the end of this year.

Popal and others hope for a better future for Afghanistan, but they agree it
will not come easily. David Yaar, an Afghan refugee and economics professor at
California State University, Hayward, said his uncle sent words of caution after
moving back to Afghanistan last year.

"He told me, 'My wish for you is to never come back,'" he said. "'It's hell.'

"The situation in Afghanistan is still very dangerous." Tribal tensions still
play a significant role in the political scene, and many kids - particularly
girls - go without education. About half of the Afghan population lives in
poverty, and most Afghans lack basic health care.

Many say Afghanistan will need to get back its middle class - the thousands of
scholars, artists and skilled workers who fled during the years of oppression -
if the country is to rebound financially.

Though many have visited, few will move back permanently, Yaar predicts, because
the threat of danger persists.

A Union City family knows the risks well.

On July 6, after being appointed vice president of Afghanistan under Karzai,
Hajji Abdul Qadir was shot in the head by two of gunmen as he left his office in
Kabul. Qadir's brother, legendary Afghan freedom fighter Abdul Haq, was ambushed
and shot by the Taliban more than a year ago.Qadir and Haq had several relatives
in Union City, including Haq's son, a student at James Logan High School.

After Qadir's death, hundreds of mourners visited the Union City family. One of
them, Said Safi, asked the question: "How can I feel safe to go to Kabul and
help my country?"Tragedy here, too

While danger remains abroad, the local community learned last January that
safety can be elusive on this side of the world, too.

On Jan. 8, Zabi Ansari was making tea in the back room of the family's
Centerville travel agency when he heard two gun shots. He went to see what
happened - and found his partner and brother-in-law had been killed by an
intruder, who then shot and wounded Ansari.

The dead man, Rahim Ansari, had served as one of 15 founding members of the
World Wide Afghan Unity Foundation, a Fremont organization that had planned to
send 10 delegates to help establish the government of Afghanistan.

This shooting suspect had no apparent political overtones, however. Police
theorize that the alleged shooter, Khoja Shujai of Union City, was angry with
the family because he had been rejected by Rahim Ansari's sister. Shujai has
been confined to a mental hospital while it is determined whether he is
competent to stand trial.

Zabi Ansari has recovered from the gunshot wound to his abdomen. His emotional
wound has proved deeper.

Unable to work in the same Fremont Boulevard building where the killing took
place, the family moved its business to a nearby location, at the corner of
Fremont and Peralta boulevards.

Ansari and his family have spent much time in prayer, sharing tearful memories
of the slain patriarch who paved the way to the United States.

The family held a celebration of Ansari's life last week at The Mirage in
Fremont - a ceremony signifying that the year of mourning is finished.

It is time to move forward, Zabi Ansari said.

"People are coming together now to finish their sadness," he said, reflecting
not only his family's expectations but also those of an entire community.

"We are coming out of mourning, into celebration.

We do have hope."

Staff writer Melissa Evans covers religion and culture for The Argus. She can be
reached at [510] 353-7005 or mevans@angnewspapers.com . Staff writer also Rob
Kuznia contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              135 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           January 16, 2003 Thursday

INS announces more registrations

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 337 words


Long-term male visitors age 16 and older from Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia,
Jordan and Kuwait are the next group of people who will be required to register
with the government, according to an Immigration and Naturalization Service
notice to be made public today.

The registration period for these five countries extends from Feb. 24 through
March 28 and covers visitors who will remain in the United States after that
date. Men and boys from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan must register at their local
INS office by Feb. 21.

Also, men and boys from 18 countries for whom the registration period has
already closed will be given more time to register, according to a second notice
to be released today. The extended registration runs from Jan. 27 to Feb. 7, it
says.

Those who don't register could be deported.

Students and those visiting family are among those required to register. They
will be fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed by immigration officials,
and must provide travel documents, including their passport and I-94 form, and
proof of residence, employment and enrollment in school, if applicable, the
notice says.

People who have been granted asylum and asylum seekers, permanent residents and
diplomats do not have to register, the notice says. But dual citizens will be
required to register.

The registration process is the start of a larger program to register all
foreign visitors by 2005. But immigrant advocates claim the INS has scared
people away by detaining hundreds who voluntarily appeared to register.

They call this registration, which is what the Germans called their process
before World War II, before they opened the concentration camps, said Randall
Caudle, Santa Clara Valley chapter chair for the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

Caudle also questioned the plan to register Kuwaitis while the U.S. sends
thousands of troops to the country in preparation for a possible war with Iraq.

/credit

Contact Michele R. Marcucci at mmarcucci@angnewspapers.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              136 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            January 27, 2003 Monday

FBI hunts Iraqis in country illegally;
Several thousand immigrants sought for voluntary interviews before possible war
starts

BYLINE: By Dan Eggen, Washington Post

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1127 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The FBI has launched a concerted search for several thousand illegal Iraqi
immigrants who have gone missing while visiting the United States and are among
those being sought for voluntary interviews in advance of a possible war with
Iraq, officials said.

Although the majority of Iraqi immigrants are viewed as being opposed to Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein and sympathetic to the United States, federal
authorities are concerned that others who have disappeared from the government's
view are more likely to be agents of the Iraqi regime or to be allied with
terrorist groups, officials said.

For example, several U.S. officials said, Saddam's government is known to have
recruited Iraqi students studying in the United States to gather information and
intelligence on U.S. technology.

"One of our top priorities is to find those who are here illegally who could be
a threat," said a senior U.S. counterterrorism official. "We don't really know
how big the problem is or how big the threat might be, but the possibility is
real."

The search for the missing Iraqis, estimated by immigration officials to number
3,000 or more, has become one of the primary objectives of a broader, FBI-run
program aimed at locating and interviewing as many as 50,000 Iraqi nationals who
have entered the United States as visitors or refugees within the past decade or
so.

The interview program was begun about two months ago after complaints from some
top lawmakers, who openly questioned the FBI's ability to guard against
espionage and terror attacks in the event of an Iraqi conflict.

The initiative is separate from the Justice Department's controversial "special
registration" program, which requires male visitors from 25 mostly Muslim
countries, including Iraq, to be fingerprinted and questioned by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

By contrast, authorities said, the interviews with the FBI are voluntary, aimed
primarily at gaining intelligence about any Iraqis on U.S. soil who may have
ties to Saddam's regime or terrorist groups.

U.S. law enforcement officials said the program has three main goals: to develop
friendly intelligence sources within the Iraqi American community; to reassure
immigrants that the FBI and other federal agencies will guard against any
ethnically motivated attacks in the event of a war; and to locate immigrants
whose whereabouts are unknown.

The efforts have not altered the FBI's view that Saddam loyalists in the United
States are limited primarily to diplomatic circles, and that most are already
under U.S. surveillance, sources said.

But law enforcement officials said they were surprised to learn, through INS
records, of the number of Iraqi visitors who had been ordered deported for
overstaying their visas or other violations, but never appeared for removal
proceedings.

"Quite frankly, we don't know what their status is," a law enforcement official
said. "They could have gone back home, they could have gone to another country,
or they could still be here. ... There is a strong belief that we need to find
out one way or the other."

Authorities concede that locating foreign nationals who have evaded deportation
is notoriously difficult.

"There's not much of a paper trail in a lot of these cases," an FBI official
said. "If all you have is a five-year-old address, and it's a transient
neighborhood where nobody knew him, there's not a whole lot you can do."

Iraqi nationals are hardly the only people who have failed to heed deportation
orders, a group known in government parlance as "absconders." After the Sept.
11, 2001, terror attacks, the Justice Department launched a controversial
program aimed at locating and removing an estimated 300,000 absconders of
numerous nationalities. The program has succeeded in removing only about 1,100
people, officials said.

The Iraqi interview project is overseen by top FBI officials in Washington, and
is being carried out by 56 Joint Terrorism Task Forces across the country, which
include representatives from federal, state and local agencies. INS officers
accompany FBI agents during many of the visits, officials said.

Task force representatives have been flown to FBI headquarters in Washington in
recent weeks for training and briefings, officials said. The biggest efforts are
focused in metropolitan areas with sizable Iraqi immigrant populations,
including Washington, Detroit, Los Angeles, New York and Northern New Jersey.

Authorities were unable to say how many interviews have been conducted.

"You get some reluctance from some people, but you have to start somewhere,"
said Michael Rolince, head of counterterrorism in the FBI's Washington field
office. "Even if they are distrustful of us, it's important to get out there and
open up the lines of communication. ... They need to know that we need their
help, and that we are there to help them."

[begin optional trim]

The FBI engaged in a similar campaign to track and interview Iraqis before the
Persian Gulf War in the early 1990s, but the current effort is far more
ambitious and better organized, FBI officials say.

Robert Blitzer, a former FBI counterterrorism official who participated in the
earlier effort, said such initiatives are useful because they allow the FBI to
better identify potential threats while assuring Iraqis in the country that the
U.S. government is concerned about them. "You don't expect to necessarily find a
smoking gun," Blitzer said, "but you do expect to have a better handle on the
climate within the community."

[end optional trim]

Major Arab American and Muslim groups say they have not received large numbers
of complaints about the FBI Iraqi initiative, in part because it has just begun
and because many Iraqi nationals support U.S. efforts to depose Saddam.

But Mohammed Alomari, an Iraq native who serves as a spokesman for a
Michigan-based Arab American group, said many Iraqi visitors are afraid to
complain for fear of endangering their immigration status or attracting the
attention of federal authorities.

[optional add end]

Alomari, media director for Focus on American and Arab Interests and Relations
of Southfield, Mich., and others said that interviewees have commonly been asked
about their views of the Saddam regime; how they feel about the prospect of war;
and whether they know anyone who might be capable of committing acts of
terrorism on Saddam's behalf.

"It sounds almost like they're taking opinion polls as a barometer of whether
people support the war," Alomari said. "It's hard to understand what the
motivation for this program is. ... If they're trying to strengthen relations
with the Iraqi community and the opposition, I don't think this is the way to do
that."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              137 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            April 24, 2003 Thursday

One doesn't have to be born in U.S. to love it

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 449 words


EVERY now and then, particularly when the economy is bad, we begin hearing
murmurs about closing our nation's borders.

Our country can't afford the economic cost of immigration, the siren song
starts. Immigrants are taxing our school system. They don't speak English.
They're not part of our culture. Et cetera.

In the darkest days after Sept. 11, some questioned the loyalty of
first-generation immigrants. If you weren't born here, the illogic went, you
couldn't love this country.

Meet U.S. Marine Lance Cpl. O.J. Santamaria.

Of Philippine descent, Santamaria was actually born in Greece. He lived in
Manila before moving to Daly City to live with his father in 2000.

After a year of working at chain stores, including Burger King and Target,
Santamaria decided to pursue a lifelong dream.

He joined the U.S. military in August 2001, becoming one of more than 37,000
immigrants in our armed forces.

Santamaria said he chose the Marines partly because Filipinos usually don't --
he wanted to be different -- and partly because the Marines were toughest.

One month later, the World Trade Center fell, and the world was different.
Santamaria was part of this country's first line of defense, but U.S.
citizenship was still years away.

In February of this year, Santamaria flew out to Iraq with the 2nd Battalion,
8th Marines.

On March 23, he was in a Humvee when Iraqi troops started firing from both
sides. An American gunner shouted that he was out of ammunition. Santamaria
climbed atop the Humvee to help him reload.

Then he heard an explosion and stopped feeling his right arm.

Wounded on the battlefield, Santamaria was transported back to the U.S., where
surgeons inserted a metal plate and an artificial bone.

The military awarded him the Purple Heart.

But for his most signficant procedure, O.J. Santamaria can thank President
George W. Bush, who personally presided when he was given the oath of U.S.
citizenship.

Though dizzy with pain, Santamaria insisted on standing for the ceremony,
because he wanted to respect the president.

"You're a good man," President Bush told Santamaria. "I'm so proud of you."

We are also proud to have Santamaria as a citizen of this country. He has
clearly demonstrated his loyalty and his selflessness.

And he has made a powerful statement for all of our many neighbors who were born
in other countries.

Legally, you can be an American just by being born here.

But exemplifying the American spirit takes pride and character, and has nothing
at all to do with one's birthplace.

We need to keep our doors open for immigration, because this country can never
have enough people like O.J. Santamaria.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              138 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            August 7, 2003 Thursday

Agents arrest 3 lab workers

BYLINE: By Ian Hoffman, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


Agents of ICE -- the new Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement --
announced Wednesday the arrests of three foreign nationals working at Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory.

The three face deportation proceedings for criminal convictions unearthed in a
special post-Sept. 11 enforcement program aimed at U.S. government laboratories.

ICE spokeswoman Sharon Rummery called the investigation "part of the war on
terrorism" and said it was designed to prevent the potential blackmailing of
foreign nationals in the labs for sensitive information.

Yet Berkeley lab performs no defense research and is not considered a sensitive
facility. At defense facilities, such as Lawrence Livermore nuclear weapons lab,
ICE agents found no foreign nationals with criminal convictions, Rummery said.

But agents apparently overlooked an entire East Bay nuclear-weapons lab. Sandia
National Laboratories-California, located in Livermore, devotes roughly half of
its 960 employees to engineering U.S. nuclear weapons and others to sensitive,
homeland-security missions. Rummery acknowledged not knowing of its existence.

ICE agents began scouring 4,000 employment records at Lawrence Berkeley lab a
year ago, focusing on Form I-9s, in which employees declare their nationality.
Bureau agents verified nationality and, for foreign nationals, compared the
names to criminal-records databases.

Three workers who are legal, permanent U.S. residents turned up with past
criminal convictions for domestic violence, vehicle theft and possession of
cocaine. ICE agents arrested them over the last two weeks.

According to lab officials, they included a computer-network troubleshooter from
Canada who had worked at the lab for 13 years, a biology lab technician from the
Philippines who had worked at the lab six years and a maintenance worker from
Mexico who had worked at the lab about 17 months.

As far as lab officials are concerned, a conviction for a crime doesn't preclude
working for Berkeley lab unless the offense impaired the ability of a worker to
perform his job, said lab spokesman Ron Kolb.

"I can tell you for a fact that none of this relates to performance issues for
any of them," Kolb said.

Neither the lab nor federal law requires U.S. nationals who work at Berkeley lab
to report criminal convicThe reason for us conducting these investigation is
that if someone works at a sensitive facility and is deportable and if someone
knows of that deportability, then somebody could take advantage of that, Rummery
said. They might say, 'Hey, I know about your situation' and maybe try to
compromise them.

Berkeley lab runs the nation's most powerful unclassified supercomputer in a
downtown Oakland office building. But access to that computational power and,
indirectly, to unclassified science institutions elsewhere in the nation is as
sensitive as material at Berkeley lab gets. But none of the three arrestees
worked there, Kolb confirmed.

I think the risk of compromise is fairly small here at the lab because of our
unclassified nature, he said.

Such arrests are common but enforcement has increased after Sept. 11, according
to Shawn Matloob, a Berkeley immigration lawyer and immigration committee member
for the San Francisco chapter of the National Lawyers' Guild.

Based on current law, it's irrelevant what their reasoning is. They have the
discretion on who they put into removal proceedings. Not even an administrative
judge can say anything about it, he said. They have sole discretion.>

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              139 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                          September 11, 2003 Thursday

Anti-terrorism measures show there is still more to be done

SECTION: NONE SPECIFIED

LENGTH: 689 words


THE attacks that tumbled the World Trade Center's twin towers and slammed into
the Pentagon two years ago today changed everything for Americans and the world.
But we haven't yet and most likely never will totally eliminate the threat of
terrorism.

The answer to the question posed by The San Mateo County Times' five-part
series, "Are we safer now?" is "yes." The articles made clear that we're still a
long way from where we need and want to be in such vital areas as public health
and security at our national laboratories, airports and seaports.

While billions of dollars and hours have been invested in making us safer from
terrorism, experts say more needs to be done. The more we learn about our
vulnerabilities, it seems, the more we realize how much we don't know and must
still be done. That's one reason why:

Security experts question whether Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory's
150-person protection force can withstand a terrorist assault.

Dr. Kristi Koenig of the Veteran's Health Administration says, "It's very
difficult to measure how prepared we are" for a chemical or biological attack.

Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform worries that once
foreigners cross our borders, "We still do virtually nothing to enforce
immigration laws within the U.S. ... they have pretty much carte blanche to stay
here and do whatever they want."

Dockworkers in Southern California echo peers at the Port of Oakland when they
say, as trucks with unchecked cargo depart, "Port security? What port security?"

An ex-investigator for the Federal Aviation Administration now employed by the
Transportation Security Administration says airport security "is so flawed, I
don't want to fly anymore."

Yet, TSA spokesman Brian Turmail says, "Air travel today is safer than it's ever
been because we looked at every aspect of passenger security [after 9/11] and
improved it, fixed it, or built it."

Since the Sept. 11 terrorists transformed hijacked airliners into missiles,
there was good reason why billions of security dollars spent in the past 730
days flowed to airports. No matter how much we spend, however, we may never
totally eliminate the threat of terrorism. The possibilities are just too vast.

Improvements have been made in public health since 2001 -- about $250 million in
federal funds helped prepare California's first responders -- but our medical
system remains overburdened and underfunded. It's plagued by outdated,
paper-based detection and warning systems for infectious diseases and shrinking
funds for technicians and specialists.

Tracking foreign students should be easier with the new $37 million Student
Exchange Visitor Information System, or SEVIS, database. All students will be
listed. Before they just disappeared. But a new $380 million entry-exit system
for foreign visitors that was to be at air and sea borders this year may not
meet that deadline and won't be used at land borders until late 2005.

TSA replaced private security firms at airports, thousands of armed marshals
were hired and every piece of baggage on domestic flights is supposedly checked.
Yet, critics say TSA has depended too much on big buck technology. Thus, we
ordered 1,100 bomb detection machines at $1 million apiece that fail 30 percent
of the time and can't distinguish a block of plastic explosives from a hunk of
cheese.

All anti-terrorism efforts are said to be underfunded, but money for vital port
security remains most scarce. The Bush administration earmarked no funds for
ports in 2003 and 2004.

Still, the reporting and tracing of cargo has improved. Freight used to sit on
the dock as long as a week before paperwork was done and ports never knew what
was coming in until just before a shipment arrived. Now they know 24 hours
before a ship is loaded overseas. U.S. customs officials at 24 foreign ports can
block cargo from going aboard. Inbound ships are boarded by Coast Guard Sea
Marshals two days before sailing under the Golden Gate.

All of which is progress, making us safer but also illuminating how much more
could be done.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              140 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      November 4, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Immigrants now may check case status online;
OFFICIALS SAY SERVICE WILL REDUCE WAITING

BYLINE: By Pankaj Paul; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 428 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service now allows non-citizens to check the
status of their pending applications online for the first time, easing one of
the agency's worst bottlenecks.

The service, which went online last week, should save hundreds of thousands of
immigrants the hours of waiting it previously took to check on the status of
applications for citizenship, green cards and other matters by telephone or by
visiting INS offices, agency officials said.

This could also help ease some of the long lines outside the INS office in San
Jose, where hundreds line up every day -- many to check on the status of their
applications.

The service can be used, however, only by people who have received a receipt
number for their application from one of the four INS service centers, in
California, Nebraska, Texas and Vermont.

''We think this will reduce the number of customers who need to call or go to
their local offices to get this information,'' said a spokesman for the agency,
Bill Strassberger.

The online service was welcome news at the San Jose office of U.S. Rep. Mike
Honda, where 60 percent of the people who came to the office looking for help
with the INS simply wanted to learn the status of pending applications, which
often take months or even years to be processed.

''This is a big deal,'' said Cathy Hyde, Honda's constituent services director
in San Jose. ''Earlier, the process to get a status check could take as much as
30 days.''

Ravi Simhambhatla of San Jose used the site to get an update on his case this
week. Ravi and his wife have been awaiting approval for their green cards -- a
process that began nearly two years ago.

''This gives me the ability to get a check when I want to and not have to wait
for hours to get an answer on the 800 number or at the INS office in San Jose,''
Simhambhatla said.

The service is not likely to be much help to people with complicated
applications, cautioned Richard Konda, executive director for the Asian Law
Alliance, a non-profit law center that provides free or low-cost law services in
Santa Clara County.

''This will be of help to some, but many people who come to us for help will
probably not benefit because their cases have been pending for a very long
time,'' he said.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To check the status of applications online, go the INS Web site at
https://egov.ins.usdoj.gov/ graphics/cris/jsps/index.jsp. People who do not have
a receipt can still get an update at a local office or by calling the National
Customer Service Center at (800) 375-5283.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      November 4, 2002 Monday PS1 EDITION

INS adds new online service;
SERVICE LETS IMMIGRANTS CHECK CASES, SHOULD REDUCE WAIT

BYLINE: By Pankaj Paul; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 399 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service now allows non-citizens to check the
status of their pending applications online for the first time, easing one of
the agency's worst bottlenecks.

The service, which went online last week, should save hundreds of thousands of
immigrants the hours of waiting it previously took to check on the status of
applications for citizenship, green cards and other matters by telephone or by
visiting INS offices, agency officials said.

This could also help ease some of the long lines outside the INS office in San
Jose, where hundreds line up every day -- many to check on the status of their
applications.

The service can be used, however, only by people who have received a receipt
number for their application from one of the four INS service centers, in
California, Nebraska, Texas and Vermont.

''We think this will reduce the number of customers who need to call or go to
their local offices to get this information,'' said a spokesman for the agency,
Bill Strassberger.

The online service was welcome news at the San Jose office of U.S. Rep. Mike
Honda, where 60 percent of the people who came to the office looking for help
with the INS simply wanted to learn the status of pending applications, which
often take months or even years to be processed.

''This is a big deal,'' said Cathy Hyde, Honda's constituent services director
in San Jose. ''Earlier, the process to get a status check could take as much as
30 days.''

Ravi Simhambhatla of San Jose used the site to get an update on his case this
week. Ravi and his wife have been awaiting approval for their green cards -- a
process that began nearly two years ago.

''This gives me the ability to get a check when I want to and not have to wait
for hours to get an answer on the 800 number or at the INS office in San Jose,''
Simhambhatla said.

The service is not likely to be much help to people with complicated
applications, cautioned Richard Konda, executive director for the Asian Law
Alliance, a non-profit law center that provides free or low-cost law services in
Santa Clara County.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To check the status of applications online, go the INS Web site at
https://egov.ins.usdoj.gov/ graphics/cris/jsps/index.jsp. People who do not have
a receipt can still get an update at a local office or by calling the National
Customer Service Center at (800) 375-5283.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     November 9, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Tougher illegal-migrant rule;
EXPEDITED-REMOVAL POLICY APPLIES TO EVERYONE, EXCEPT CUBANS

BYLINE: By Jacqueline Charles and Andrea Elliott; Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Criticized for treating Haitian migrants differently from people from other
countries, the U.S. Justice Department said Friday that it would apply the same
expedited-removal rules to anyone who arrived illegally by sea, except Cubans.

The policy will not affect the 211 Haitians who have been detained since they
arrived at Key Biscayne last week, but it was a blow to immigrant-advocate
groups that had hoped public pressure would persuade the Bush administration to
ease the policy that allowed Haitians to be detained indefinitely awaiting their
asylum hearings.

Haitian and Dominican sea migrants who land on U.S. soil illegally will be
hardest hit by the decision, because they will not be released on bond or
parole. Their asylum cases will move more quickly, giving them less of a chance
to secure attorneys.

A day earlier, President Bush sparked hope among migrant advocates when he said
that ''the immigration laws ought to be the same for Haitians and everybody
else, except for Cubans.''

The new rule will take effect Wednesday, when all undocumented non-Cuban
migrants arriving in the United States by sea will be detained without bond and
placed in ''expedited removal,'' as many Haitians have been since December.

The decision is meant to clearly discourage mass migration by sea to the United
States and to prevent Coast Guard and Defense Department resources from being
diverted to ward off more boat arrivals, according to a statement by Jorge
Martinez, a Justice Department official.

On the West Coast, illegal immigration by sea is down considerably from the
1980s and early 1990s, when international crime syndicates smuggled as many as
100,000 mainland Chinese a year into the United States.

Such smuggling from China began to taper off in the mid-1990s, officials said.

''We felt like we had really smashed the smuggling situation,'' said Sharon
Rummery of the San Francisco office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

In recent years, however, Coast Guard officials have seen an increase in
Ecuadoran immigrants trying to slip into the United States along the Pacific
Coast.

This year, Coast Guard officers intercepted about 1,600 Ecuadorans trying to
sneak into the United States by sea, according to the agency's Web site.

''I don't think we're seeing them in the same numbers as Haitians in the
Caribbean,'' said Lt. Cmdr. Jeff Carter, Pacific Area information officer for
the Coast Guard. ''But it is similar: small vessels that are very overloaded.''

Mercury News Staff Writer Michael Bazeley contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      November 11, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Immigrants tap into ready-made support network

BYLINE: By K. Oanh Ha; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 647 words


When Jose and Blanca Limon shopped for a home in East San Jose two years ago for
their family of four, they couldn't believe their luck: They found a
five-bedroom home with a duplex in the back yard for $485,000.

From the start, the Limons saw the property as a business opportunity, a
modern-day boarding house that today is home to 22 relatives and immigrant
workers.

In Mayfair, a predominantly Latino enclave in East San Jose, renting out rooms
is one way people get by. The one-mile-square neighborhood is the entry point
for many new immigrants who often share housing and work several jobs to make
ends meet.

Twenty-seven percent of Mayfair households reported that non-relatives live in
their homes, compared with 16 percent in Santa Clara County and less than 4
percent in parts of upscale Saratoga, according to the 2000 census.

The Limons have two young sons and rent out rooms in their house to Limon's
brother and sister-in-law and their two children, plus another brother and three
other men who are not relatives. In addition, they rent out the two units out
back, and another four-bedroom house they own nearby.

Jose Limon's tenants cover the $2,000 monthly mortgage, which allows him to save
most of his salary from his job as a heavy machinery operator and two
moonlighting businesses -- a tour bus company and a Spanish-language magazine.

Family matters

Jose Limon's brother Jorge arrived at the family's doorstep in April, and his
wife and two children followed shortly after. His brother Ruben, 36, arrived two
months later, with a single suitcase of clothes.

Ruben Limon is one of hundreds of solteros or ''single guys'' who live in
Mayfair, accounting for roughly 10 percent of the neighborhood's 8,349
residents, according to Jaime Alvarado of the Mayfair Improvement Initiative.
Most are not, in fact, single -- they are married with children, but have left
their families behind in Mexico and come here alone in search of work. Many come
from the states of Michoacan and Jalisco, and in Mayfair they tap into a
ready-made network of friends and family for housing, transportation and jobs.

Looking for jobs

Ruben Limon came in order to support his wife and three children in a small
pueblo in the state of Jalisco. Back there, he is a rancher with his own house
and fields of alfalfa, which he sells as food for farm animals. Here, he shares
a small bedroom off the kitchen with another soltero. He commutes by bus to work
in Fremont, two hours each way.

''I have a nice life in Mexico. I have a house, a ranch, a car,'' he said.
''But, the money is here. There are jobs here.''

Strict rules

In the upstairs unit of the duplex at the back of Limon's property, six men from
El Salvador -- all cousins from the same town -- share a two-bedroom apartment
and split $1,300 in rent. The roommates have strict rules. A schedule is taped
to the refrigerator, dictating who cleans the house each day. If one skips his
cleaning duty, he pays a $10 fine to the next cleaner.

''I can't imagine living with other people,'' said Juan Osorio, who left behind
a wife and three children. ''We all share the same culture, food, customs and
way of thinking.''

Jose Limon sees the demand for rental housing as a chance for his own family to
get ahead. He came to the United States in 1986 by himself, intending to work
for a few years and take his savings back to Mexico to set up a business.

Instead, he spent nearly a decade working in San Jose as a busboy, fell in love
and married and saved enough to buy the houses.

Limon's wife, Blanca, would prefer not to share the house with tenants.

''He doesn't mind the situation,'' she said. ''But there are certain things I
need as a wife, as a mother, as a woman, that he doesn't need. I would like more
privacy.''

Contact K. Oanh Ha at kha@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 18, 2002 Monday

Thai immigrants freed from slave-like conditions in Los Angeles sweatshop

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES (AP)


Thai immigrants who were freed seven years ago from slave-like working
conditions at a sweatshop have been granted permanent residency.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service recently notified the 71 immigrants
of their new legal status and will provide green cards within six months,
attorney Julie Su said.

''I am happy, happy, happy,'' Sirilac Rongsakare said outside a Los Angeles
garment factory where she now works.

Authorities raided a San Gabriel Valley factory, about 12 miles east of downtown
Los Angeles, on Aug. 2, 1995. The workers had been held against their will and
forced to work for less than 60 cents an hour under the scrutiny of 24-hour
guards.

Their story became a centerpiece of the Smithsonian Institution's critically
acclaimed exhibit on sweatshops, ''Between a Rock and a Hard Place: A History of
American Sweatshops 1820-Present.''

After the raid, the workers filed lawsuits to collect years of back pay,
eventually receiving more than $4 million in settlements from companies that did
business with the operators of the sweatshop.

Settlements for each worker ranged from $10,000 to $80,000, depending on how
long they were there.

Since the Thai workers were freed, 22 have married and given birth to 18 babies.
Most remain in the Los Angeles area sewing, cleaning homes and working at
restaurants.

Seven of the sweatshop operators pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy,
requiring indentured servitude and harboring illegal immigrants. Six received
prison terms and the seventh was deported to Thailand after cooperating with
prosecutors. All were ordered to be sent back to Thailand after serving their
sentences.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 25, 2002 Monday

After post-Sept. 11 freeze, U.S.- Mexico try to mend relations

BYLINE: By Susana Hayward Knight Ridder

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


U.S. and Mexican officials will take up several contentious issues that have
chilled relations between the neighbors when they begin their annual summit here
today.

Secretary of State Colin Powell and Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda
will lead their respective delegations at the 19th U.S.-Mexico Binational
summit. At the two-day event, officials will delve into issues such as
immigration, trade, border security and water disputes.

U.S. and Mexican officials have sought to play down media reports of tensions
between the countries. Observers say relations have been strained since Sept.
11, 2001, when Washington diverted its attention from addressing issues
important to Mexico to focus on the war on terrorism.

''Despite certain versions, our relation with the United States is excellent,
fluid. We've been advancing in many fronts simultaneously,'' Castaneda told
Congress Friday in a briefing about the meeting. ''It's evident we are working
well, very well and that's the conclusion I would make from this meeting.''

But even President Vicente Fox has complained that Bush needs to refocus on
Mexico despite the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The plane bombings in New
York and Washington shelved advances made on immigration, trade and border
topics.

''Bush is overreacting. Security and terrorism are his main words. But the world
goes on and it's urgent for the president expand his agenda,'' Fox said on Nov.
16 during a visit to France.

When both Bush and Fox took office within two months of each other, expectations
ran high. Mexico was the first country Bush visited as president and he said it
would be his highest priority. Fox seemed to making progress in lobbying Bush
and Congress for a new migration accord, until the terrorist attacks.

Fox, a former chairman of Coca-Cola in Mexico and former governor of Guanajuato
state, toppled the Institutional Revolutionary Party, known by its Spanish
acronym as the PRI, which ruled Mexico since 1929. Running under the
conservative, pro-business National Action Party, Fox won in one of the cleanest
elections on July 2000. Mexicans were swept by the tough-talking Fox, who
promised wide ranging change, a ''transitional democracy'' in a country rampant
with corruption, fraud, poverty and crime.

But the PRI has congressional majority and old-guard of politicians, unhappy
with Fox, still have power. And Fox is losing steam having failed to pass key
economic and social reforms, as well as to advance Mexico's issues with the
United States.

The Mexican government's priority is still aimed at reaching a lenient
immigration accord with the United States that would include a new guest worker
program and the legalization of thousands of longtime Mexican residents.

But U.S. officials have other concerns. They want Mexico to pay a mounting water
debt owed under a 1944 treaty. Farmers on both sides of the Rio Grande have been
hurting from a decade-long drought and point accusatory fingers at each other. A
state department official, who asked to remain anonymous, said that the United
States will press Mexico to make a payment against its debt of 500 billion
gallons of water. He said resources will likely be increased to the Nadbank,
created under NAFTA to aid border projects, investment in water conservation and
infrastructure projects in northern Mexico.

Both sides see the summit as a chance to air their differences.

''We don't pretend that we're going to solve every problem we have, every issue
we have between ourselves and Mexico,'' a senior state department official said
in Washington on Friday. ''Some of them are very tough, complex law enforcement
and migration issues.''

Nevertheless, the official said the summit will produce some accords, among them
a $25 million letter of agreement to fund pilot projects for speedy movement of
goods and people across the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border.

Crossings have been time-consuming since the terrorist attacks and hurt trade
generated by the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement among Mexico, the
United States and Canada.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    November 27, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

U.S.-Mexico talks see scant progress;
LITTLE ACTION TAKEN ON IMMIGRATION, OTHER ISSUES

BYLINE: By Susana Hayward; Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


While stressing the close relationship between the United States and Mexico,
government officials from both nations failed Tuesday to make significant
progress during an annual summit to discuss sensitive trade, immigration and
border issues.

The 19th annual meeting of the U.S.-Mexico Binational Commission, headed by
Secretary of State Colin Powell and Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda.
ended Tuesday afternoon with many promises but little action on matters that
have caused tension between the neighboring countries.

The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington changed the priorities
of the Bush administration, and progress on reaching a new immigration accord
with Mexico will take time, Powell and Castaneda told reporters at the end of
the summit.

''The Bush administration sees Mexico as more than a neighbor. . . . Mexico is
also a partner who helps the United States combat terrorism and helps ensure
Iraq complies with the U.N. resolution to disarm weapons of mass destruction,''
Powell said.

Powell said there was no ''specific deal'' on immigration or on Mexico's growing
water debt to drought-stricken U.S. farmers. But Powell said ties with Mexico
were at an all-time high despite policy changes caused by Sept. 11.

Castaneda, who has repeatedly stated that the United States would eventually
have to accept a more lenient migration accord given the reality of millions of
Mexicans already in the United States, took a less positive tone than Powell.
''There is no plan, no time frame to legalize Mexicans, nor is it foreseen. It
is being negotiated, as it has been all along,'' said Castaneda, one of
President Vicente Fox's closest advisers.

''We reiterated the commitment of both governments to find solutions for legal,
early, humane and secure movement of people between Mexico and the United
States,'' said Castaneda, who said there was no timeline for these goals.

Behind closed doors, members of the delegations from the two countries met in
separate groups, depending on the topic: foreign policy, immigration, legal
affairs, energy, border issues, bilateral cooperation and economic affairs.

Besides Powell, the Americans attending were Attorney General John Ashcroft,
Education Secretary Rod Paige, Interior Secretary Gail Norton, Labor Secretary
Elaine Chao, Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta and Environmental Protection
Agency Administrator Christie Whitman.

Fox greeted the group before they got to work and gave a lengthy speech on
pressing issues. Afterward, President Bush gave a videotaped message from
Washington. ''The United States has no more important relationship in the world
than we have with Mexico,'' Bush said. ''I have visited Mexico more than any
other country and consult with my friend President Fox frequently.''

As proof of the importance Bush placed on Mexico, the president said he choose
fellow Texan Tony Garza, ''one of my most trusted amigos,'' as the new U.S.
ambassador to Mexico. Garza was the former Texas Railroad Commissioner and is
the first Mexican-American to hold the post.

In his talk with the U.S. delegation, Fox said, ''It is time to put migration
matters at the highest levels.''

The Fox administration's top priority with the United States has been to reach a
new immigration accord to give legal status to undocumented Mexican workers.
''We have a new window of opportunity . . . to regularize Mexicans, achieve
border security, have temporary workers, visas and programs for better
association and prosperity,'' Fox said.

The main achievements Tuesday included a $25 million letter of agreement to
speed up the movement of goods and people across the 2,000-mile border between
the two countries.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 29, 2002 Friday

Orange County man's death highlights some immigrants' faith in 'healers'

LENGTH: 913 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif. (AP)


Roberto Caceres was desperate.

Two years after developing a rash that caused his legs to swell and his skin to
peel, the Salvadoran immigrant sought treatment from a woman he believed could
use traditional remedies to cure what modern medicine could not.

Caceres, 54, an air-condition repairman at an Orange County shopping mall, was
on the brink of losing his job because the pills prescribed by doctors failed to
cure his affliction and he found it difficult to work.

As a last resort, family members say, he turned to a Van Nuys faith healer
touted by a popular Spanish-language radio host. During Caceres' second visit on
Oct. 28, according to police, the faith healer ordered an assistant to inject
him with a mix of vitamins and steroids. He had an immediate reaction and died
that day.

Reina Isabel Chavarria, 48, and her assistant, Margarita Montes, 28, were
arrested and charged with involuntary manslaughter and practicing medicine
without a license. The women face up to 12 years in prison if convicted,
District Attorney spokesman Sandi Gibbons said.

Caceres' death highlights a practice among many immigrants in Southern
California who turn to unlicensed practitioners because they often are poor and
uninsured, prefer the type of care they had in their homeland or, if they
entered the country illegally, fear having their immigration status checked at
mainstream clinics.

Two years after the Los Angeles Police Department formed a task force to crack
down on the practice, phony doctors and pharmacists continue to proliferate.
Arrests at backroom clinics tucked in bridal shops, bakeries and other stores
catering to Southern California's Hispanic, Russian and Asian communities are on
the rise, according to the task force.

So far this year, officers have arrested 56 people for illegal pharmaceutical
sales.

Detective Al Aldaz, of the Los Angeles Police Department's homicide unit, said
Chavarria operated a ''very profitable'' business, seeing at least 20 customers
a day.

''The people she deals with come from deep Mexico or El Salvador in the hills.
There is not a lot of medical treatment available,'' Aldaz said. ''They believe
in the supernatural.''

Contacted by telephone at her home, Chavarria refused comment and would not
provide the name of her attorney.

Inside the family home in Santa Ana, photographs of a sturdy, silver-haired
Caceres smile at visitors from a makeshift altar. Some 200 people packed the
home to attend Caceres' wake, where he was remembered as a simple man who helped
raise money to send wheelchairs and an ambulance back to his hometown.

''When I am alone, the memories come back,'' Noemi Caceres, 50, said by
telephone from El Salvador, where she returned this month to bury her husband
and seek comfort from relatives. ''Right now, I feel as if he is still in Santa
Ana. When I get there, it will be difficult for me.''

Born in the village of Atiquizaya, El Salvador, an area known for its abundant
waterfalls and curative thermal waters, Roberto Caceres was a coffee farmer who
emigrated to the United States in 1980.

Like so many before him, he came seeking a better life. Specifically, he hoped
his eldest son, Luis, then 18, could go to college and avoid being drafted into
the country's violent civil war.

The couple grew into their new role as grandparents and planned to retire with
their two sons in Nevada. A daughter lives in Anaheim.

But the life Caceres built was threatened by the skin rash, which four different
dermatologists had been unable to treat or diagnose.

When he went to work, he was sent home because his constant scratching was
considered unsightly. Shortly before contacting Chavarria, Caceres received
written notice from his employer that he would lose his job and health coverage
in November.

Caceres remembered a faith healer in El Salvador who once cured him of back pain
with a steady dose of natural fruit juices and prayer, and held out hope that he
might yet find a cure.

When one of his doctors muttered something about his infection being
''diabolic,'' he believed it was time to seek an alternative remedy, Luis
Caceres said.

He turned to Chavarria, whose powers as a natural healer had been publicized on
a nationally syndicated, Spanish-language radio show. Chavarria charged Caceres
$310 on his first visit and advised him to dig a hole ''where nobody could see
him'' and bury himself for two hours a day, police said.

He found a shady spot under a lemon tree in his back yard and followed the
unusual prescription, his son said. The cold earth aggravated his condition,
however, and in a week he returned to the faith healer for a follow-up
consultation.

During Caceres' second visit, Montes, 28, consulted with Chavarria before giving
him two closely-timed injections, police said. Investigators believe the shots
contained vitamin B-12 and B-Methasone, a steroid used to treat allergies.

Caceres promptly fell to the floor, gasping. He was pronounced dead at Valley
Presbyterian Hospital.

Toxicology reports are pending.

With phony medical clinics thriving in immigrant communities throughout Los
Angeles, officials have launched a series of Spanish-language television ads
informing people that they can instead turn to low-cost medical clinics.

''None of this gets reported unless something drastic happens,'' Aldaz said.
''They operate in the culture or under the umbrella of the neighborhood where
people believe in what they are doing.''

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      December 2, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Immigrants with health care skills find career aid with S.F. program

BYLINE: By Renee Koury; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words


Susan Garcia Martos pushes a baby stroller along the San Francisco waterfront
with the other nannies, earning $12 an hour for taking care of a 2-year-old
named Calvin.

It's a world away from the gleaming hospital in Peru where, two years ago,
Martos was efficiently slapping surgical tools into a doctor's hands. Considered
a top surgical nurse, Martos was assisting with heart and kidney transplants.
Now, the most delicate instrument she handles is the tiny spoon she uses to feed
Calvin.

Like thousands of foreign-trained health care professionals, Martos cannot
practice medicine in the United States -- even though health care experts
acknowledge they need people with her skills to serve the nation's growing
immigrant population. So in a first-of-its-kind program that has expanded beyond
the Bay Area during the past year, San Francisco State University and San
Francisco City College are guiding some of these medical workers through the
maze of requirements and licensing exams.

''I wish I could do my job again,'' Martos said wistfully as she snuggled with
her 5-year-old daughter, Maria, in their cramped Daly City apartment. ''Being a
surgical nurse, it's the job I love. It keeps your mind open. You are helping
people.''

Experienced doctors and nurses trained in other countries often need to start
over with medical education, residencies and rigorous licensing exams once they
enter the United States. They also need superior English skills and enough money
to support themselves while they learn the language and the American health care
system.

Many become frustrated by the obstacles and resort to working as bus boys, house
cleaners or hamburger cooks.

The situation is perplexing for health professionals, who say California
desperately needs international doctors and nurses who understand the languages
and cultures of the state's burgeoning immigrant populations.

The San Francisco program, called ''Welcome Back'' and funded by $1.2 million
from the California Endowment, the state's largest health foundation, aims to
guide professionals back into medical careers that mirror the jobs they held
back home -- or at least use their skills to become technicians and
administrators. Participants in the free program receive one-on-one counseling
and attend seminars. If they take other classes, they pay that tuition.

The program started at San Francisco State University and San Francisco City
College, and now has centers in Los Angeles and San Diego. Since it began in
March 2001, about 2,900 foreign-trained health professionals have enrolled for
help, including about 600 in the Bay Area. So far, none has finished the
licensing process.

''It is so frustrating because, on the one hand, you have a huge need for
doctors and dentists and psychologists who understand the patients from other
countries,'' said Jose Ramon Fernandez-Pena, the founder and director of Welcome
Back. ''They are here, but they can't practice.''

Hispanics, for example, make up about 31 percent of the California population
but only 4 percent of practicing doctors here, according to statistics from the
Center for Health Professions at the University of California-San Francisco.
About 70 percent of doctors are white and 20 percent are Asian.

Pena was a doctor in Mexico for five years in the 1980s. But when he came to the
United States, he found the hurdles to practicing were too high.

He opted for a degree in health policy and management.

Pena contends that foreign-born doctors and nurses face overly tough obstacles:
They must pass U.S. medical board exams, something that's difficult if they
haven't been to medical school in years. Physicians also must pass a clinical
exam only required of foreign-trained doctors. And they must work two or three
years in a tough residency program.

''It is insulting,'' Pena said of his own and others' experience. ''You worked
all those years and they don't give you credit. Some get very discouraged.''

But Anmol Mahal, vice chairman of the California Medical Association, disagrees.
He graduated from medical school in India in 1972, obtained his U.S. medical
license and now practices gastroenterology in Fremont. He has advocated the
tough licensing standards.

''Yes, there are hoops to jump through, but there are lots of doctors who do
it,'' Mahal said. ''U.S. citizens have the right to know that all licensed
physicians have been similarly tested.''

Mahal said medical standards vary by medical school and country, and U.S
standards should be met. It is imperative to learn English, he said, to
communicate effectively with colleagues and patients. Diseases prevalent in the
United States may be different from those elsewhere. And medical technology here
is more advanced than in many nations, Mahal said.

Still, Pena said, there is a place for highly trained foreign doctors and nurses
who now are working cash registers or flipping burgers.

''We have to do something to get them out of McDonald's and into the health care
field,'' he said.

Martos is eager to move on. She is taking pharmacology and English while working
as a babysitter.

In Peru, she and her husband had a four-story mansion near the ocean, with
servants and a chauffeur. Her husband, Walter, was a civil engineer. They fled
because terrorists were threatening to kill him, Martos said. Now Walter Martos
sells newspapers in the South Bay and the family lives in a one-bedroom
apartment in Daly City.

''We live like poor people, but we are together and there is hope I can be a
nurse,'' she said.

Maria de la Cruz, 38, of San Francisco, worked for four years as a registered
nurse in Mexico. Here, she cleans houses.

The Welcome Back program has helped her enroll in refresher courses and English
classes.

Pena said he often counsels foreign doctors and nurses to reshape their careers
to obtain jobs with fewer requirements, such as becoming a lab technician or a
public health administrator.

''They say, go through this hoop and go through that hoop, and when you're done
it's not good enough. What we're telling people is they are very valuable, but
they may need to reinvent themselves.''

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Welcome Back program can be reached at (415) 561-1833.

Contact Renee Koury at rkoury@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 4, 2002 Wednesday

Study finds more Hispanic immigrants graduating from high school

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


The percentage of Hispanic immigrants with a high school diploma more than
doubled over the last three decades, though that group still tends to be less
educated than Americans overall, a Latino research group said Wednesday.

Immigrants from Mexico and Central American countries like El Salvador and
Honduras were less likely to have finished high school than new arrivals from
South America and the Caribbean, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

''In the coming decades, the educational composition of the Latino foreign-born
population will begin to look more like that of the American native-born
population,'' authors B. Lindsay Lowell and Roberto Suro wrote in the report,
which covered people 25 and older.

The analysis of Census Bureau data between 1970 and 2000 found the share of
Hispanic immigrants who had graduated from high school increased from 28 percent
to 59 percent, while for all Americans it increased from 55 percent to 84
percent.

That gap is likely to narrow, the report said, as younger foreign-born residents
who tend to have more education displace in the population older residents who
are less educated. In addition, more immigrant families are getting their
education in the United States, where schools tend to be better than in Latin
American countries.

Data from the 2000 census showed the Hispanic population more than doubled
during the 1990s to 35.3 million, rivaling blacks as the nation's largest
minority group. Many Latinos from Mexico and, to a lesser extent, Central
America, arrived in the past decade to take plentiful, low-skilled, low-paying
jobs in factories, meatpacking plants and on farms.

The influx has strained many urban and rural schools struggling to teach new
immigrants with little or no grasp of English. Some critics have called for more
limits on immigration to ease the burden on schools and to reduce the number of
Hispanic dropouts in the work force.

Government estimates place the illegal immigrant population between 8 million
and 9 million, with nearly half from Mexico.

About two-thirds of all undocumented immigrants have not finished high school,
the report said.

Still, Lowell and Suro said that closing the education gap is no longer
insurmountable.

''For the immediate and foreseeable future, substantial benefits can be reaped
from programs that aim to bolster the education of immigrant youth and provide
adults with language and skills training,'' the report said.

        ------

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 5, 2002 Thursday

HIspanics say San Francisco prenatal care access more difficult

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO (AP)


Pregnant Hispanic women who apply for public health insurance in San Francisco
experience more confusion and immigration-related fears than counterparts in New
York and Miami, according to a study released Thursday.

Fifty-five percent of such women interviewed in San Francisco feared assistance
would make it harder to become a citizen, and feared having to pay back aid in
the future. In Miami, those fears were shared by 33 percent of such women, and
the number was just 9 percent in New York.

''As policymakers we need to address women's fears,'' said Elena
Fuentes-Afflick, one of the authors of the study. ''We have made a great effort
to tell pregnant women they need to follow regular doctor visits, but we found
that there are many factors that influence women's decision to apply for
insurance.''

Among them, Fuentes-Afflick cited confusion on where to go to apply, paperwork
needed to apply, fear about being asked for a social security number and fear
about being reported to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Researchers at the University of California, San Francisco and The New York
Academy of Medicine interviewed 2,400 women in San Francisco, New York City and
Miami, between 1999 and 2001.

The study focused on the impacts the 1996 federal welfare law had on prenatal
care. The law added enrollment obstacles to Medicaid -- known as Medi-Cal in
California -- even to previously eligible legal immigrants.

In San Francisco, 29 percent of legal immigrants reported difficulties when
applying for health insurance, compared to 29 percent in Miami and 3 percent in
New York.

Researchers recommended simplifying the application process, especially in the
San Francisco Bay area.

''In New York, they have a simpler process and help women thorough it so there
are fewer problems and fears,'' said Fuentes-Afflick, an associate professor of
pediatrics at UC San Francisco. ''We ask for more documentation than they do in
New York. Paperwork in New York is still legal, within the law, but the process
is simpler.''

------

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 5, 2002 Thursday

Study: Hispanic immigrants make education gains

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


Education levels for Hispanic immigrants have surged over the last 30 years,
though gaps with native-born U.S. residents remain wide.

The study from the Pew Hispanic Center, a research group, also found education
levels differing according to where a Latino immigrant arrived from. Those from
Mexico and Central America have less distance to get to the United States,
making it easier and cheaper for an undocumented immigrant with less education
to travel.

Meanwhile, those from South America typically have to pay more to travel farther
to enter the country, so they would tend to be more educated, or least come from
families where the cost of a plane ticket -- or an education -- is not as much
of an obstacle, said one of the report's authors, B. Lindsay Lowell.

The overall gap with U.S.-born residents persists in part because many Hispanic
families cannot afford rising college costs, experts said. In other families,
kids may not attend school regularly in order to work, while undocumented
students find it hard to get financial aid.

The center's analysis of Census Bureau data between 1970 and 2000 found the
share of Hispanic immigrants over 25 who graduated from high school increased
from 28 percent to 59 percent, while for U.S.-born residents it grew from 53
percent to 87 percent.

Those immigrants who attended at least two years of college or a two-year degree
doubled from 9 percent to 18 percent, while for U.S.-born citizens it increased
from 17 percent to 35 percent,

Even with the disparities, ''the education profile of the adult Latino immigrant
population has improved significantly over the past 30 years,'' said the Pew
center's director, Roberto Suro.

''In the coming decades, the educational composition of the Latino foreign-born
population will begin to look more like that of the American native-born
population,'' Suro and Lowell wrote.

Jim Ferg-Cadima, a legislative analyst with the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund, said the report was overly optimistic. He said it did not
account for factors that may limit Hispanic advances, including college costs or
private financial aid sources, which tend to give more merit to applicants who
are citizens.

Plus, forecasts are difficult to make because ''this country's treatment of
immigrants is always in flux,'' he said.

Data from the 2000 census showed the Hispanic population more than doubled
during the 1990s to 35.3 million, rivaling blacks as the nation's largest
minority group. Many Latinos from Mexico and, to a lesser extent, Central
America, arrived in the past decade to take plentiful, low-skilled, low-paying
jobs in factories, meatpacking plants and on farms.

The influx has strained many urban and rural schools struggling to teach new
immigrants with little or no grasp of English. Some critics have called for more
limits on immigration to ease the burden on schools and to reduce the number of
Hispanic dropouts in the work force.

Government estimates place the illegal immigrant population between 8 million
and 9 million, with nearly half from Mexico. About two-thirds of all
undocumented immigrants have not finished high school, the report said.

Suro said he was optimistic disparities would narrow as younger foreign-born
residents who tend to have more education displace in the population older
residents who are less educated. In addition, more immigrant families are
getting their education in the United States, where schools tend to be better
than in Latin American countries.

''For the immediate and foreseeable future, substantial benefits can be reaped
from programs that aim to bolster the education of immigrant youth and provide
adults with language and skills training,'' the report said.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 5, 2002 Thursday

SF prenatal care access more difficult, Hispanics say

LENGTH: 350 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO (AP)


Pregnant Hispanic women who apply for public health insurance in San Francisco
experience more confusion and immigration-related fears than counterparts in New
York and Miami, according to a study released Thursday.

Fifty-five percent of such women interviewed in San Francisco feared assistance
would make it harder to become a citizen, and feared having to pay back aid in
the future. In Miami, those fears were shared by 33 percent of such women, and
the number was just 9 percent in New York.

''As policymakers we need to address women's fears,'' said Elena
Fuentes-Afflick, one of the authors of the study. ''We have made a great effort
to tell pregnant women they need to follow regular doctor visits, but we found
that there are many factors that influence women's decision to apply for
insurance.''

Among them, Fuentes-Afflick cited confusion on where to go to apply, paperwork
needed to apply, fear about being asked for a social security number and fear
about being reported to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Researchers at the University of California, San Francisco and The New York
Academy of Medicine interviewed 2,400 women in San Francisco, New York City and
Miami, between 1999 and 2001.

The study focused on the impacts the 1996 federal welfare law had on prenatal
care. The law added enrollment obstacles to Medicaid -- known as Medi-Cal in
California -- even to previously eligible legal immigrants.

In San Francisco, 29 percent of legal immigrants reported difficulties when
applying for health insurance, compared to 29 percent in Miami and 3 percent in
New York.

Researchers recommended simplifying the application process, especially in the
San Francisco Bay area.

''In New York, they have a simpler process and help women thorough it so there
are fewer problems and fears,'' said Fuentes-Afflick, an associate professor of
pediatrics at UC San Francisco. ''We ask for more documentation than they do in
New York. Paperwork in New York is still legal, within the law, but the process
is simpler.''

------

On the Net.

        http://www.nyam.org

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    December 18, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Latino survey provides portrait of U.S. group;
POLL EMPHASIZES SIGNS OF RAPID ASSIMILATION

BYLINE: By Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Most Latino immigrants want to settle in the United States, learn English and
become citizens, but they believe that discrimination is a major barrier to
success, states a national survey released Tuesday.

The poll of nearly 3,000 Latino adults, including immigrants and those born in
the United States, was billed as the most comprehensive contemporary look at an
expanding population of more than 35 million U.S. residents.

''It's the first portrait of the Hispanic population as it is now, after the
growth experienced during the 1990s,'' said Roberto Suro, director of the
non-profit Pew Hispanic Center, which conducted the study with the Kaiser Family
Foundation.

The survey did not break out undocumented immigrants. But previous estimates
have placed the number from Mexico alone at 3 million to 5 million people.
Nearly two-thirds of all U.S. Latinos are of Mexican origin.

Overall, the poll found that Latinos are assimilating into U.S. society in a
distinctive manner that preserves ties to ancestral lands and some traditional
attitudes about family. ''The melting pot is still quite powerful,'' Suro said.

Some findings ran counter to widely held perceptions. For example, the poll
found that the degree of assimilation into U.S. society is more powerful than
national origin in shaping the attitudes of Latinos. Discrimination by Latinos
against other Latinos is seen as similar to bias in society at large.

The sense of discrimination by other Latinos ''is not based on race, but rather
it is economic and, in some cases, due to country of origin,'' Suro said.

On the whole, Latinos are optimistic about the United States, the poll found.
Nearly 90 percent said they believe opportunities to get ahead are better here
than in their home countries. Among Latinos born outside the United States, 28
percent said they are already citizens and an additional 52 percent said they
are planning to apply for citizenship.

English becomes the dominant language among Latinos within a generation. While
72 percent of the immigrant generation said Spanish was their primary language,
only 7 percent of second-generation Latinos had the same response. Among the
third and subsequent generations, 78 percent said English was their primary
language, and 22 percent described themselves as bilingual.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 4, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Arraignments of pair delayed in S.J. fraud case

BYLINE: By Michael Bazeley; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 305 words


The arraignments of a San Jose pair accused of defrauding immigrants were
postponed Friday, and the two will apparently remain jailed until next week.

Noel Ramayrat and Mercedes Alcantara are being held in lieu of $2 million bail
each on charges that they misrepresented their authority to offer legal services
to immigrants, cheating perhaps hundreds of undocumented immigrants out of tens
of thousands of dollars.  Authorities said the case amounts to ''massive
immigration fraud.''

Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Jerome Nadler rescheduled the hearing
for the pair for Thursday. Nadler will also consider a request to lower bail at
that time.

Ramayrat and Alcantara operated an immigration consulting business in San Jose,
but neither is licensed to practice law in California. Authorities have also
accused them of grand theft, payroll tax evasion and conspiracy to commit
illegal immigration consulting.

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office says the pair enticed
immigrants into their offices with the promise of green cards and labor
certifications, but then never produced the documents. The two are also accused
of luring Filipino professionals to the United States with the promise of
non-existent high-paying jobs.

Ramayrat's attorney, Kenneth Robinson of San Jose, declined to comment other
than to note that Ramayrat is licensed to practice law in his home country of
the Philippines.

The district attorney's office named 18 victims in its criminal complaint. But
publicity about the case has garnered many more potential victims, Deputy
District Attorney Dale Lohman said. ''I have appointments set through all of
next week,'' she said. ''My goal is to so overwhelm them with victims and
evidence that they consider settling.''

Contact Michael Bazeley at mbazeley@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 4, 2003 Saturday PS1 EDITION

Arraignments of S.J. pair held in fraud are postponed

BYLINE: By Michael Bazeley; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 305 words


The arraignments of a San Jose pair accused of defrauding immigrants were
postponed Friday, and the two will apparently remain jailed until next week.

Noel Ramayrat and Mercedes Alcantara are being held in lieu of $2 million bail
each on charges that they misrepresented their authority to offer legal services
to immigrants, cheating perhaps hundreds of undocumented immigrants out of tens
of thousands of dollars.  Authorities said the case amounts to ''massive
immigration fraud.''

Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Jerome Nadler rescheduled the hearing
for the pair for Thursday. Nadler will also consider a request to lower bail at
that time.

Ramayrat and Alcantara operated an immigration consulting business in San Jose,
but neither is licensed to practice law in California. Authorities have also
accused them of grand theft, payroll tax evasion and conspiracy to commit
illegal immigration consulting.

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office says the pair enticed
immigrants into their offices with the promise of green cards and labor
certifications, but then never produced the documents. The two are also accused
of luring Filipino professionals to the United States with the promise of
non-existent high-paying jobs.

Ramayrat's attorney, Kenneth Robinson of San Jose, declined to comment other
than to note that Ramayrat is licensed to practice law in his home country of
the Philippines.

The district attorney's office named 18 victims in its criminal complaint. But
publicity about the case has garnered many more potential victims, Deputy
District Attorney Dale Lohman said. ''I have appointments set through all of
next week,'' she said. ''My goal is to so overwhelm them with victims and
evidence that they consider settling.''

Contact Michael Bazeley at mbazeley@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 4, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Sweeping plan to track travelers;
BORDER CROSSERS WOULD GIVE DATA

BYLINE: By Curt Anderson; Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government wants detailed information about every person who comes to or
leaves the country by commercial plane or boat, and for the first time will
require U.S. citizens to fill out forms detailing their comings and goings.

Under rules proposed Friday, the information would be sent electronically to the
government for matching against security databases. Carriers could be fined
$1,000 each time they failed to provide proper information on a passenger.

''It's another way to enhance security for travelers,'' said Kimberly Weismann,
news officer for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The proposal requires all passengers arriving or departing, as well as crew
members, to provide this information: name, date of birth, citizenship, sex,
passport number and country of issuance, country of residence, U.S. visa number
and other details of its issuance, address while in the United States, and,
where it applies, alien registration number. The INS rule also requires that
travelers provide ''such other information'' that federal officials decide is
necessary for enforcing immigration laws and protecting national security.

Not all information is required in every case. For example, a Canadian would not
need to provide passport information because one isn't required for a visit to
the United States.

The INS is weighing how long it would keep the information. Private vehicles,
commercial buses and trains are not affected.

The public will have a month to comment on the plan and the final regulations
will take effect later this year. The American Civil Liberties Union, which has
criticized many of the administration's anti-terrorism information-gathering
efforts, said these rules should not impinge on people's privacy.

''We don't see a huge downside,'' said ACLU official Emily Whitfield.

Congress mandated the changes in legislation that was signed into law by
President Bush in May. The law also tightened rules governing the issuance of
visas to visitors and students coming to the United States and added Border
Patrol officers.

The law also gives Attorney General John Ashcroft leeway in proposing further
requirements.

For years, international travelers have been required to fill out forms
detailing their arrival and departure from countries around the world. Before
the Sept. 11 2001, terrorist attacks, the main goal was to speed travelers
through customs.

The U.S. government, however, has not previously required its own citizens to
submit such forms, and never required forms from departing travelers. Canadians,
permanent resident aliens and certain other people also were exempted.

Under the plan all commercial airlines, cargo flights, cruise ships and other
vessels carrying crew or passengers will be affected, with the exception of most
ferry boats.

The information will be sent electronically to the government before a traveler
arrives in the United States or departs from it, giving officials a complete
passenger and crew manifest.

The aim is to detect potential terrorists or criminals immediately and to
enhance the government's ability to track whether visitors to the United States
have departed as planned.

More than 29 million passengers flew to the United States from overseas in the
first nine months of 2002, according to the Commerce Department. The cruise
industry estimates that about 8 million U.S. passengers will embark in 2003.

Officials in the cruise and airline industries say the changes will be costly
and could result in some initial delays and inconveniences for passengers.

''It'll be a little tricky at first, but I don't see any major problems,'' said
David O'Connor, U.S. director for the International Air Transport Association.

Industry officials agree that the departure rules will present the most
problems. Inbound ships and planes have an easier task because they already have
a manifest of the crew and passengers on board, while those departing often must
juggle last-minute passengers and delays caused by late-arriving connecting
flights.

Expansion of the INS monitoring is a first step toward a long-delayed automated
entry-exit system for tracking visitors at U.S. ports of entry.

Rosemary Jenks, lobbyist for NumbersUSA, a private group that favors tighter
borders, said Friday that the advance passenger list requirement ''has the
potential'' to improve security.

''The bottom line is, it's all pointless unless the INS is using the data that
it gets'' to detect dangerous or unauthorized people before they cross the
border, she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       January 5, 2003 Sunday PS1 EDITION
                              Correction Appended

Clinic deciphers INS rules;
IMMIGRANTS WONDER IF THEY HAVE TO REGISTER WITH AGENCY

BYLINE: By Putsata Reang; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 522 words


Organizers of a free clinic in San Francisco on Saturday said they believe fear
probably kept some immigrants away from the session.

About 75 immigrants, worried that they might be required to register with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service under a controversial new national
security policy, attended the free clinic. Organizers had hoped to attract about
300 people.

''People who are afraid to come send their brothers or sisters or other family
members who are citizens,'' said Khalil Kaid, an organizer with Service
Employees International Union Local 1877. ''A lot of people are scared and
nervous.''

Members of SEIU Local 1877 hastily organized the afternoon session at the
group's Tenderloin headquarters as the deadline for registering approaches and
fear surrounding the policy intensifies among immigrants.

About 400 of the union's 3,500 members in San Francisco are of Arab descent, and
many are worried that they'll be targeted under the government's new law, which
requires men from 13 Middle Eastern, African and Asian countries to register
with the INS.

''There's so much confusion about who needs to register,'' said Heba Nimr, an
attorney at La Raza Centro Legal who is involved with a program that
specifically monitors INS activity. ''People who are citizens from Yemen think
they have to register.''

But that's not the case. Widespread confusion about the policy prompted Nimr and
about 20 other attorneys to volunteer their time Saturday to clarify the law and
help immigrants determine whether they should register.

Under the program, only men and boys age 16 and older from countries including
Morocco, Lebanon, Eritrea, North Korea and Afghanistan who entered the United
States as non-immigrants on or before Sept. 30, 2002, and plan to stay in the
country at least until Jan. 10 must register.

Those who attended the legal clinic were provided packets outlining the policy
and possible consequences they face if they decide to register. Each person
received a 15-minute consultation with an attorney.

Attorneys who helped out Saturday said they are well-versed about the policy's
guidelines. What's less certain is how the INS will use information obtained
during the registration process.

''We really do not know the final consequences of failing to register,'' said
Nancy Hormachea, a Berkeley immigration attorney and member of the National
Lawyer's Guild.

Hormachea warned those who attended that if they carry expired visas or face
other immigration violations they are likely to face deportation and should
think hard before deciding whether to register. She implored others to consider
their own circumstances before registering.

Already, the INS has detained hundreds of Middle Eastern men -- including at
least two dozen in the Bay Area -- following the first registration deadline
last month. The next deadline is Jan. 10.

Kaid said the union has no other legal clinics planned but would consider
hosting more if necessary. A rally in protest of the policy is planned for 1
p.m. Friday at the INS office in San Francisco.

Contact Putsata Reang at preang@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2003 Thursday



CORRECTION: January 5, 2003 CLINIC DECIPHERS INS RULES
An article Sunday in the local section about a new anti-terrorism policy
included a quote from an attorney who mischaracterized a group concerned about
registering with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Heba Nimr said she
intended to say, ''People who are U.S. citizens from Yemen think they have to
register.'' Immigrants who have become U.S. citizens do not have to register
under the new policy.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       January 5, 2003 Sunday MO1 EDITION
                              Correction Appended

Free clinic deciphers new INS regulations;
SOME HAVE TO REGISTER WITH AGENCY

BYLINE: By Putsata Reang; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 528 words


Organizers of a free clinic in San Francisco on Saturday said they believe fear
probably kept some immigrants away from the session.

About 75 immigrants, worried that they might be required to register with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service under a controversial new national
security policy, attended the free clinic. Organizers had hoped to attract about
300 people.

''People who are afraid to come send their brothers or sisters or other family
members who are citizens,'' said Khalil Kaid, an organizer with Service
Employees International Union Local 1877. ''A lot of people are scared and
nervous.''

Members of SEIU Local 1877 hastily organized the afternoon session at the
group's Tenderloin headquarters as the deadline for registering approaches and
fear surrounding the policy intensifies among immigrants.

About 400 of the union's 3,500 members in San Francisco are of Arab descent, and
many are worried that they'll be targeted under the government's new law, which
requires men from many Middle Eastern, African and Asian countries to register
with the INS.

''There's so much confusion about who needs to register,'' said Heba Nimr, an
attorney at La Raza Centro Legal who is involved with a program that
specifically monitors INS activity. ''People who are citizens from Yemen think
they have to register.''

But that's not the case. Widespread confusion about the policy prompted Nimr and
about 20 other attorneys to volunteer their time Saturday to clarify the law and
help immigrants determine whether they should register.

Under the program, only men and boys age 16 and older from countries including
Morocco, Lebanon, Eritrea, North Korea and Afghanistan who entered the United
States as non-immigrants on or before Sept. 30, 2002, and plan to stay in the
country at least until Jan. 10 must register.

Those who attended the legal clinic were provided packets outlining the policy
and possible consequences they face if they decide to register. Each person
received a 15-minute consultation with an attorney.

Attorneys who helped out Saturday said they are well-versed about the policy's
guidelines. What's less certain is how the INS will use information obtained
during the registration process.

''We really do not know the final consequences of failing to register,'' said
Nancy Hormachea, a Berkeley immigration attorney and member of the National
Lawyer's Guild.

Hormachea warned those who attended that if they currently carry expired visas
or face other immigration violations they are likely to face deportation and
should think hard before deciding whether to register or not. She implored
others to consider their own specific circumstances before registering.

Already, the INS has detained hundreds of Middle Eastern men -- including at
least two dozen in the Bay Area -- following the first registration deadline
last month. The next deadline is Jan. 10.

Kaid said the union has no other legal clinics planned but would consider
hosting more if necessary. A rally in protest of the new policy is planned for 1
p.m. Friday at the INS office in San Francisco.

Contact Putsata Reang at preang@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2003 Thursday



CORRECTION: January 5, 2003 CLINIC DECIPHERS INS RULES
An article Sunday in the local section about a new anti-terrorism policy
included a quote from an attorney who mischaracterized a group concerned about
registering with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Heba Nimr said she
intended to say, ''People who are U.S. citizens from Yemen think they have to
register.'' Immigrants who have become U.S. citizens do not have to register
under the new policy.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 5, 2003 Sunday
                              Correction Appended

Free clinic deciphers new INS regulations;
SOME HAVE TO REGISTER WITH AGENCY

BYLINE: By Putsata Reang; Mercury News

LENGTH: 528 words


Organizers of a free clinic in San Francisco on Saturday said they believe fear
probably kept some immigrants away from the session.

About 75 immigrants, worried that they might be required to register with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service under a controversial new national
security policy, attended the free clinic. Organizers had hoped to attract about
300 people.

''People who are afraid to come send their brothers or sisters or other family
members who are citizens,'' said Khalil Kaid, an organizer with Service
Employees International Union Local 1877. ''A lot of people are scared and
nervous.''

Members of SEIU Local 1877 hastily organized the afternoon session at the
group's Tenderloin headquarters as the deadline for registering approaches and
fear surrounding the policy intensifies among immigrants.

About 400 of the union's 3,500 members in San Francisco are of Arab descent, and
many are worried that they'll be targeted under the government's new law, which
requires men from many Middle Eastern, African and Asian countries to register
with the INS.

''There's so much confusion about who needs to register,'' said Heba Nimr, an
attorney at La Raza Centro Legal who is involved with a program that
specifically monitors INS activity. ''People who are citizens from Yemen think
they have to register.''

But that's not the case. Widespread confusion about the policy prompted Nimr and
about 20 other attorneys to volunteer their time Saturday to clarify the law and
help immigrants determine whether they should register.

Under the program, only men and boys age 16 and older from countries including
Morocco, Lebanon, Eritrea, North Korea and Afghanistan who entered the United
States as non-immigrants on or before Sept. 30, 2002, and plan to stay in the
country at least until Jan. 10 must register.

Those who attended the legal clinic were provided packets outlining the policy
and possible consequences they face if they decide to register. Each person
received a 15-minute consultation with an attorney.

Attorneys who helped out Saturday said they are well-versed about the policy's
guidelines. What's less certain is how the INS will use information obtained
during the registration process.

''We really do not know the final consequences of failing to register,'' said
Nancy Hormachea, a Berkeley immigration attorney and member of the National
Lawyer's Guild.

Hormachea warned those who attended that if they currently carry expired visas
or face other immigration violations they are likely to face deportation and
should think hard before deciding whether to register or not. She implored
others to consider their own specific circumstances before registering.

Already, the INS has detained hundreds of Middle Eastern men -- including at
least two dozen in the Bay Area -- following the first registration deadline
last month. The next deadline is Jan. 10.

Kaid said the union has no other legal clinics planned but would consider
hosting more if necessary. A rally in protest of the new policy is planned for 1
p.m. Friday at the INS office in San Francisco.

Contact Putsata Reang at preang@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2003 Thursday



CORRECTION: January 5, 2003 CLINIC DECIPHERS INS RULES
An article Sunday in the local section about a new anti-terrorism policy
included a quote from an attorney who mischaracterized a group concerned about
registering with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Heba Nimr said she
intended to say, ''People who are U.S. citizens from Yemen think they have to
register.'' Immigrants who have become U.S. citizens do not have to register
under the new policy.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 7, 2003 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Monitoring immigrant sign-ups

BYLINE: By Matthai Chakko Kuruvila; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words


On a day when Bay Area activists began monitoring the detentions of immigrants
who registered under a new national security program, Mohamed Harizi went to the
San Francisco INS office ready to be jailed.

Harizi, 25, believed his expired student visa might deliver a fate similar to
that of hundreds of other Muslim and Arab men who were detained after they
complied with a government order for men and boys from mostly Muslim countries
to be fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed.

He had heard the cells were cold, so Harizi wore thermal underwear and a turtle
neck sweater. He had heard metal objects were prohibited in jail, so he didn't
wear a belt or a watch. Instead, he brought two friends, who had instructions to
pay bills, call his family in Tunisia and coordinate with a lawyer.

But he wasn't detained. The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) asked
him to return in a week with more paperwork.

Although Harizi fears deportation, the former Sonoma State University student
hopes for some way to remain in the United States legally.

''I don't know what will happen later,'' Harizi said.

The effort to closely track immigrant men and boys from mostly Middle Eastern
and Muslim countries is having seismic effects on the immigration system,
heavily criticized after Sept. 11, 2001, for lax enforcement of the law. But now
part of the INS strategy to strengthen its control involves trying to target
primarily Muslims and Arabs.

INS officials say they are doing their job at a time where national security is
at grave risk and with the knowledge that the Sept. 11 hijackers were in the
United States on the same kind of visitor visas now needing special
registration. Hundreds have been detained since last month, many of them because
of expired visas.

Activists have assailed the registration and detention process as a
bait-and-switch tactic in which immigrants are punished by one law for complying
with another.

The INS has refused to disclose details of the detention process -- including
figures on how many have been detained, what countries they're from and the
reasons for detainment -- prompting activists to begin Monday's ad hoc
accounting of those registrants who entered the San Francisco INS office.

''When there's secrecy, there's no accountability,'' said Heba Nimr, an attorney
with the INS Watch-La Raza Centro Legal, a San Francisco non-profit group that
monitors INS enforcement activity. Nimr said the unofficial accounting was also
meant to show solidarity with immigrant groups required to register. ''I don't
understand what's so threatening about public information.''

Department of Justice spokesman Jorge Martinez said that the detentions are done
only to make sure those immigrants who have violated immigration law don't also
turn up on a national law enforcement database. Of the thousands who have
registered, Martinez said, at least 23 turned up on the criminal database,
including some convicted felons and others who were wanted by police.

Inside the San Francisco INS office Monday, the mood ranged from nervousness to
anxiety to frustration as dozens of Muslim men waited to be registered.

Mabrook Alagi came through the registration without being detained. But the
Yemeni immigrant, who is married to an American citizen, was angry.

''Why do they ask for some countries and not others?'' asked Alagi, 33, who
works as a cashier and lives in Oakland. ''Why do they ask only for Arabs and
nobody else?''

Khemais Boujema, 25, a Tunisian who is studying hotel management at San
Francisco State, said, ''It's wrong to hold entire nations accountable'' because
of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

For Harizi, the Tunisian who came dressed for jail, coming to register was the
latest blow to his dream of being a student in the United States. After coming
to Sonoma State on a student visa in the spring of 2000, Harizi dropped out when
his family could no longer afford the $12,000-a-year tuition.

Without school, his visa became invalid, but Harizi hoped his family could save
enough to send him back after a semester off.

The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 forever changed the rules of immigration.
Three of the 19 hijackers were discovered to have expired visas. And all 19 were
in the United States on non-immigrant visas: tourist, student and work.

Visa holders from 19 mostly Muslim and Arab countries are the ones asked to
register with the INS now. They will be asked to come back to re-register
annually.

With a one-week reprieve from his immigration fate, Harizi was left in the
lurch.

''It gives me another chance, another week to be stressing.''

Immigrants coming in for special registration can seek free legal advice from
the National Lawyers' Guild at (415) 285-1041.

For more information about the registration process, go to www.ins.gov

Contact Matthai Chakko Kuruvila at mkuruvila@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 7, 2003 Tuesday PS1 EDITION

Looking out for immigrants;
ACTIVISTS KEEP TABS ON INS REGISTRATION

BYLINE: By Matthai Chakko Kuruvila; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words


On a day when Bay Area activists began monitoring the detentions of immigrants
who registered under a new national security program, Mohamed Harizi went to the
San Francisco INS office ready to be jailed.

Harizi, 25, believed his expired student visa might deliver a fate similar to
that of hundreds of other Muslim and Arab men who were detained after they
complied with a government order for men and boys from mostly Muslim countries
to be fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed.

He had heard the cells were cold, so Harizi wore thermal underwear and a turtle
neck sweater. He had heard metal objects were prohibited in jail, so he didn't
wear a belt or a watch. Instead, he brought two friends, who had instructions to
pay bills, call his family in Tunisia and coordinate with a lawyer.

But he wasn't detained. The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) asked
him to return in a week with more paperwork.

Although Harizi fears deportation, the former Sonoma State University student
hopes for some way to remain in the United States legally.

''I don't know what will happen later,'' Harizi said.

The effort to closely track immigrant men and boys from mostly Middle Eastern
and Muslim countries is having seismic effects on the immigration system,
heavily criticized after Sept. 11, 2001, for lax enforcement of the law. But now
part of the INS strategy to strengthen its control involves trying to target
primarily Muslims and Arabs.

INS officials say they are doing their job at a time where national security is
at grave risk and with the knowledge that the Sept. 11 hijackers were in the
United States on the same kind of visitor visas now needing special
registration. Hundreds have been detained since last month, many of them because
of expired visas.

Activists have assailed the registration and detention process as a
bait-and-switch tactic in which immigrants are punished by one law for complying
with another.

The INS has refused to disclose details of the detention process -- including
figures on how many have been detained, what countries they're from and the
reasons for detainment -- prompting activists to begin Monday's ad hoc
accounting of those registrants who entered the San Francisco INS office.

''When there's secrecy, there's no accountability,'' said Heba Nimr, an attorney
with the INS Watch-La Raza Centro Legal, a San Francisco non-profit group that
monitors INS enforcement activity. Nimr said the unofficial accounting was also
meant to show solidarity with immigrant groups required to register. ''I don't
understand what's so threatening about public information.''

Department of Justice spokesman Jorge Martinez said that the detentions are done
only to make sure those immigrants who have violated immigration law don't also
turn up on a national law enforcement database. Of the thousands who have
registered, Martinez said, at least 23 turned up on the criminal database,
including some convicted felons and others who were wanted by police.

Inside the San Francisco INS office Monday, the mood ranged from nervousness to
anxiety to frustration as dozens of Muslim men waited to be registered.

Mabrook Alagi came through the registration without being detained. But the
Yemeni immigrant, who is married to an American citizen, was angry.

''Why do they ask for some countries and not others?'' asked Alagi, 33, who
works as a cashier and lives in Oakland. ''Why do they ask only for Arabs and
nobody else?''

Khemais Boujema, 25, a Tunisian who is studying hotel management at San
Francisco State, said, ''It's wrong to hold entire nations accountable'' because
of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

For Harizi, the Tunisian who came dressed for jail, coming to register was the
latest blow to his dream of being a student in the United States. After coming
to Sonoma State on a student visa in the spring of 2000, Harizi dropped out when
his family could no longer afford the $12,000-a-year tuition.

Without school, his visa became invalid, but Harizi hoped his family could save
enough to send him back after a semester off.

The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 forever changed the rules of immigration.
Three of the 19 hijackers were discovered to have expired visas. And all 19 were
in the United States on non-immigrant visas: tourist, student and work.

Visa holders from 19 mostly Muslim and Arab countries are the ones asked to
register with the INS now. They will be asked to come back to re-register
annually.

With a one-week reprieve from his immigration fate, Harizi was left in the
lurch.

''It gives me another chance, another week to be stressing.''

Immigrants coming in for special registration can seek free legal advice from
the National Lawyers' Guild at (415) 285-1041.

For more information about the registration process, go to www.ins.gov

Contact Matthai Chakko Kuruvila at mkuruvila@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       January 7, 2003 Tuesday F1 EDITION

Looking out for immigrants;
AREA ACTIVISTS VOW TO KEEP TABS ON INS' REGISTRATION PROCEDURE; VISITORS FROM
MOSTLY MUSLIM NATIONS FACE FEAR OF DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By Matthai Chakko Kuruvila; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words


On a day when Bay Area activists began monitoring the detention of immigrants
who registered under a new national security program, Mohamed Harizi went to the
San Francisco INS office ready to be jailed.

Harizi, 25, believed his expired student visa might deliver a fate similar to
that of hundreds of other Muslim and Arab men who were detained after they
complied with a government order for men and boys from mostly Muslim countries
to be fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed.

He had heard the cells were cold, so Harizi wore thermal underwear and a turtle
neck sweater. He had heard metal objects were prohibited in jail, so he didn't
wear a belt or a watch. Instead, he brought two friends, who had instructions to
pay bills, call his family in Tunisia and coordinate with a lawyer.

But he wasn't detained. The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) asked
him to return in a week with more paperwork.

Although Harizi fears deportation, the former Sonoma State University student
hopes for some way to remain in the United States legally.

''I don't know what will happen later,'' Harizi said.

The effort to closely track immigrant men and boys from mostly Middle Eastern
and Muslim countries is having seismic effects on the immigration system,
heavily criticized after Sept. 11, 2001, for lax enforcement of the law. But now
part of the INS strategy to strengthen its control involves trying to target
primarily Muslims and Arabs.

INS officials say they are doing their job at a time where national security is
at grave risk and with the knowledge that the Sept. 11 hijackers were in the
United States on the same kind of visitor visas now needing special
registration. Hundreds have been detained since last month, many of them because
of expired visas.

Activists have assailed the registration and detention process as a
bait-and-switch tactic in which immigrants are punished by one law for complying
with another.

The INS has refused to disclose details of the detention process -- including
figures on how many have been detained, what countries they're from and the
reasons for detainment -- prompting activists to begin Monday's ad hoc
accounting of those registrants who entered the San Francisco INS office.

''When there's secrecy, there's no accountability,'' said Heba Nimr, an attorney
with the INS Watch-La Raza Centro Legal, a San Francisco non-profit group that
monitors INS enforcement activity. Nimr said the unofficial accounting was also
meant to show solidarity with immigrant groups required to register. ''I don't
understand what's so threatening about public information.''

Department of Justice spokesman Jorge Martinez said that the detentions are done
only to make sure those immigrants who have violated immigration law don't also
turn up on a national law enforcement database. Of the thousands who have
registered, Martinez said, at least 23 turned up on the criminal database,
including some convicted felons and others who were wanted by police.

Inside the San Francisco INS office Monday, the mood ranged from nervousness to
anxiety to frustration as dozens of Muslim men waited to be registered.

Mabrook Alagi came through the registration without being detained. But the
Yemeni immigrant, who is married to an American citizen, was angry.

''Why do they ask for some countries and not others?'' asked Alagi, 33, who
works as a cashier and lives in Oakland. ''Why do they ask only for Arabs and
nobody else?''

Khemais Boujema, 25, a Tunisian who is studying hotel management at San
Francisco State, said, ''It's wrong to hold entire nations accountable'' because
of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

For Harizi, the Tunisian who came dressed for jail, coming to register was the
latest blow to his dream of being a student in the United States. After coming
to Sonoma State on a student visa in the spring of 2000, Harizi dropped out when
his family could no longer afford the $12,000-a-year tuition.

Without school, his visa became invalid, but Harizi hoped his family could save
enough to send him back after a semester off.

The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 forever changed the rules of immigration.
Three of the 19 hijackers were discovered to have expired visas. And all 19 were
in the United States on non-immigrant visas: tourist, student and work.

Visa holders from 19 mostly Muslim and Arab countries are the ones asked to
register with the INS now. They will be asked to come back to re-register
annually.

With a one-week reprieve from his immigration fate, Harizi was left in the
lurch.

''It gives me another chance, another week to be stressing.''

Immigrants coming in for special registration can seek free legal advice from
the National Lawyers' Guild at (415) 285-1041.

For more information about the registration process, go to www.ins.gov

Contact Matthai Chakko Kuruvila at mkuruvila@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 9, 2003 Thursday

Correction

LENGTH: 76 words


An article Sunday in the local section about a new anti-terrorism policy
included a quote from an attorney who mischaracterized a group concerned about
registering with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Heba Nimr said she
intended to say, ''People who are U.S. citizens from Yemen think they have to
register.'' Immigrants who have become U.S. citizens do not have to register
under the new policy.

January 5, 2003 CLINIC DECIPHERS INS RULES

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 10, 2003 Friday

Immigrants face deadline to register under security program

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES (AP)


Thousands of men from Middle Eastern and other countries lined up today around
the nation to register under a security program that has sparked protests and a
civil rights lawsuit over allegedly illegal arrests.

Civil rights advocates and Muslim and Arab community leaders kept watch at
Immigration and Naturalization Service offices to monitor the process. Few
problems were reported throughout the morning.

''I think the INS has really acknowledged that lots of mistakes were made,''
said Ramona Ripston, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Southern California. ''There were many flaws. They are saying that anyone who is
here legally will not be detained.''

On Thursday, the ACLU called for a Justice Department investigation of why the
program was initiated and what the government hopes to learn.

In the program's first phase last month, some 400 immigrants were arrested --
mostly in Southern California -- when they came forward to be photographed,
fingerprinted and questioned.

The majority have been released on bail but activists said the names and
whereabouts of dozens more remain unclear.

Francisco Arcaute, a spokesman for the INS, said steps were being taken to avoid
large-scale detentions like those that sparked protests last month.

''It does appear the process was not as smooth as we would have liked it to have
been,'' he said. ''If all is in order, they are allowed to go on their merry
way.''

Arcaute said those arrested had violated immigration law or were wanted by law
enforcement officials. He rejected arguments by critics that terrorists would
not voluntarily register with federal authorities.

''Let me just remind you that the people who committed the terrible acts on 9-11
were registered,'' he said, referring to the fact that many of the hijackers had
student visas.

On Thursday, a panel of activists and immigration experts in Washington, D.C.,
denounced the handling of the registration process.

''You are basically stigmatizing an entire ethnic population based solely on the
fact that they are men and the fact they come from certain countries,'' said
Kareem W. Shora, a lawyer for the Arab American Anti-Discrimination Committee.

Under the second phase of the National Security Entry Exit Registration Program,
males 16 and older from 13 nations -- including Afghanistan, Algeria, Lebanon
and North Korea -- must report to INS offices. Also required to report are
people from Bahrain, Eritrea, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, the United
Arab Emirates and Yemen.

The next deadline is Feb. 21 for Saudis and Pakistanis.

Attorneys for several Middle Eastern immigrants and civil rights groups in
California had sought a temporary restraining order Thursday to protect some
undocumented immigrants who have filed residency applications.

But Santa Ana District Court Judge Alicemarie H. Stotler refused to intervene,
citing the federal court system's general lack of jurisdiction in immigration
matters.

Attorney Peter Schey called the arrests illegal and said his clients were
considering an appeal. Many applications for residency have been delayed for
years because of an INS backlog.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 11, 2003 Saturday F1 EDITION

Eight reportedly detained;
HUNDREDS PROTEST SPECIAL REGISTRATION AT SAN JOSE, SAN FRANCISCO INS OFFICES

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman and Matthai Chakko Kuruvila; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words


At least eight male Bay Area visitors from mostly Middle Eastern and African
countries have been reportedly detained at the INS office in San Francisco
during the latest round of special immigrant registrations that ended Friday.

A civil rights group gave the estimate at the conclusion of the second phase of
a nationwide program prompted by the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks that
requires visitors from primarily Muslim countries to register and be
fingerprinted so that the government can monitor their movements.

Outside the San Francisco Immigration and Naturalization Service office, about
400 people decried the detentions during an afternoon rally, the largest Bay
Area protest thus far of INS special registration policies. As immigrants from
Pakistan and Saudi Arabia prepare to register beginning Monday, many among
Friday's gathering evoked the memories of World War II, when 120,000 Japanese
and Japanese-Americans were interned in camps, as were some Germans and
Italians.

''For 60 years since we were in the camps, we thought the American government
had learned to not take away people's civil liberties during a time of crisis,''
said Chizu Iiyama, 81, who was interned in the Topaz Camp in Utah but now lives
in El Cerrito. ''It's shocking for us that they're doing somewhat the same
thing.''

Activists and attorneys say many of those detained have been approved for green
cards but are in limbo only because of notoriously long backlogs by the INS.
They also criticize the INS for failing to effectively publicize -- or notify
immigrant groups -- of the registration policies.

But government officials and others have defended the registration process,
calling it a necessary security measure since the attacks. Hundreds have been
detained, many for overstaying their visas.

INS officials say they are merely fulfilling a 1996 congressional mandate to
develop an entry-exit system that would track all immigrants here as visitors --
on work, tourist and student visas. And while the program has thus far mostly
focused on Muslim and Middle Eastern immigrants, they vow that the program will
encompass all immigrant groups by 2005.

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco INS office, said there's a
reason that certain countries are initially being targeted.

''These are countries where they harbor terrorists, where Al-Qaida resides or
where there are other national security concerns,'' she said.

Bay Area activists said based on their monitoring of the INS office in San
Francisco, eight visitors were detained, which they consider a conservative
number.

Sources at the INS office in San Jose said there were no known detentions there.

Department of Justice spokesman Jorge Martinez told the Associated Press that at
least 400 people had been detained in California as of last week.

Officials with the Department of Justice said most of those detained in the
first round of registrations that ended Dec. 16 have been released, except for a
handful of visitors who were found to have criminal records. At least two dozen
men were reportedly detained in the Bay Area last month.

The registration program is aimed at visitors 16 years or older who are in the
United States on temporary visas from certain designated countries. Last month,
visitors from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria were required to register.
Friday's deadline was for visitors from Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea,
Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab
Emirates and Yemen.

Registration of male visitors from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia begins Monday and
ends Feb. 21.

''No community should go through this,'' said Anabel Ibanez, one of the San Jose
protesters and organizing director for the South Bay Labor Council. ''So today
it's one group. Who's next tomorrow?''

Ibanez and about 30 others staged a quiet protest outside the INS office in San
Jose, while in San Francisco, hundreds cheered speakers who denounced the
registration program as a civil rights violation.

Immigrants interviewed Friday expressed their shock at the process.

''I understand what the government is trying to do, but at the same time I know
it upsets many people,'' said San Jose resident Eyob Mashio, 39, a parking
attendant from Eritrea who registered Friday afternoon. ''I've got nothing to
hide.''

Adel Khammassi came to the United States from Tunisia in March 2000 on a tourist
visa. The San Francisco cabdriver received a one-year extension after that, but
his visa expired. His visa problems landed him in an INS jail this summer. But
he went home Friday after registering without incident.

''I'm not a criminal,'' said Khammassi, 30. ''I'm not the enemy. I'm not a
terrorist . . . we came to this country for a better life, for a better
future.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 16, 2003 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Justices examine immigrant jailings;
CASE STEMS FROM S.J. MAN'S DETENTION PENDING DEPORTATION HEARING

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 560 words


Civil rights attorneys argued before the U.S. Supreme Court on Wednesday that a
law requiring mandatory detention without bail of certain immigrants who are
awaiting deportation hearings is unconstitutional.

The case, which involves a San Jose resident and predates the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, could affect thousands of legal permanent residents who face being
deported for committing crimes for which they've already served time. But it
does not apply to those who have been detained by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service related to the terrorist attacks.

Lawyers and civil rights groups that support the case argued that detention
without a bail hearing violates the due-process rights of immigrants, many of
whom are not likely to flee.

The justices are expected to issue a ruling this summer.

Wednesday, Chief Justice William Rehnquist said Congress had reason when it
created the law: Government data showed that more than 20 percent of criminal
aliens released on bond while waiting deportation hearings fled.

The case, which was upheld last year by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San
Francisco, involves Hyung Joon Kim, who immigrated to the United States from
Korea with his family when he was 6 years old. At 18, Kim was convicted of
burglary. A year later, he was convicted of petty theft and served 2 1/2 years
in prison.

Immediately after he was released, the INS arrested and detained him for six
months as the agency began the process to deport him.

''The bottom line is, does he have to be in jail while he's challenging the
deportation issue? The statute that requires mandatory detention is
irrational,'' said Judy Rabinovitz, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties
Union who argued the case on behalf of Kim.

''We're not talking about people who need to be locked up,'' she said Wednesday.
''In some sense, it's a very simple case. What is at stake is the issue of
whether lawful permanent residents are entitled to due process.''

In Kim's case, the INS eventually released him on a $5,000 bond, determining
that he was not a flight risk. Kim, whose mother is an American citizen, chose
to challenge his detention with the support of national civil rights groups.

''I'd still be in detention if I hadn't fought this case,'' said Kim, who is now
studying business administration at San Jose State University.

Solicitor General Theodore Olson, representing the government, told justices
Wednesday that the case is about public safety. Immigrants who break the law no
longer have a right to be in America, he said.

''When invited guests demonstrated that they're not worthy of staying in the
country -- after committing crimes -- it's in the interest of the government to
get rid of them as quickly as possible,'' said Richard Samp, chief counsel for
the group Washington Legal Foundation, a public-interest group that supports
national defense. Samp filed a ''friend of the court'' brief, in support of the
government.

Although the case does not have a direct impact on those detained as a result of
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, many immigrant advocacy groups said it is
important in the context of the nation's war on terror, tougher scrutiny of
immigrants and focus on national security.

The Associated Press contributed to this story. Contact Jessie Mangaliman at
jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 17, 2003 Friday MO1 EDITION

Immigrants get check-in extension;
NEW ROUND OF COUNTERTERROR REGISTRATION ALSO ANNOUNCED

BYLINE: By Matthai Chakko Kuruvila; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words


Immigrants from 18 mostly Muslim countries who were required to register with
the INS but failed to do so will soon be given a two-week grace period to comply
with a nationwide counterterrorism program, according to a federal notice posted
Thursday.

The announcement gives a crucial reprieve for many immigrants who said they are
trapped in a Catch-22. Some of those who registered late were arrested and
threatened with deportation. But those who didn't register also faced
deportation, along with other potential penalties.

In addition to the grace period, the Federal Register indicated a fourth round
of registrations, from Feb. 24 to March 28, for immigrants without permanent
residency from Indonesia, Kuwait, Bangladesh, Egypt and Jordan.

The notices deepen the controversy over the special registration process, which
requires immigrants without permanent residency from 25 predominantly Muslim
countries to come to INS offices to get photographed, fingerprinted and
interviewed.

The Sept. 11, 2001, attacks were allegedly committed by immigrants who as a
group came on the same types of visas -- tourist, work and student -- now
requiring scrutiny.

On the one hand, the program is being hailed by the Justice Department as a
vital counterterrorism measure. But on the other, the special registration
program has been deluged with criticism for the way that it singles out certain
nationalities and for its flawed and uneven implementation across the country.

Certain INS offices are more likely to arrest immigrants than others, according
to the American Immigration Lawyers Association. And offices interpreted
violations of immigration laws in different ways, according to an analysis
posted on the group's Web site.

The program has received mixed blessings from groups seeking tighter immigration
controls. While they believe it is appropriate to begin with Muslim countries,
they contend that special registration will be effective only if it is extended
to all immigrant groups.

''We're being naive if we don't apply this universally,'' said David Ray,
associate director of the Washington, D.C.-based Federation for American
Immigration Reform. ''We know that Al-Qaida is not a race or creed. It's a
terrorist organization that can have combatants in any country.''

Ray said the stumbling beginning of the INS program was inherent with any new
program.

''It will be herky-jerky as it starts,'' Ray said. ''But once it's up and
running, it will become part of an immigrant's yearly duty.''

Activists and immigration lawyers say that many of the problems that plagued the
first three rounds of registration were caused by the minimal publicity given to
the program by the INS and the Department of Justice.

They say many immigrants registered late -- and were arrested for it -- simply
because they were ignorant of the program or its deadlines. Late Thursday, the
INS Web site was devoid of the information describing the two new federal
notices. Sharon Rummery, an INS spokeswoman in San Francisco, said that she had
read the Federal Register, where the official notices were posted. But she said
she had no other information.

Some immigrants may unknowingly register before the Jan. 27 to Feb. 7 grace
period, but after their previously specified deadline. Asked whether those
immigrants would be detained or threatened with deportation, Rummery said: ''I
don't know.''

Contact Matthai Chakko Kuruvila at mkuruvila@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       January 19, 2003 Sunday F1 EDITION

Community reading project turns to immigrant memoir

BYLINE: By Nora Villagran; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 666 words


Francisco Jimenez's worst fear came true as the eighth-grader was about to
recite the beginning of the Declaration of Independence.

''All men are created equal . . . endowed by their creator with certain
inalienable rights . . . life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.''

At 14, the undocumented immigrant -- in the United States for 10 years with his
farmworker family -- was snatched from his California classroom by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and deported to Mexico.

So begins ''Breaking Through,'' a memoir by Jimenez, which thousands of Santa
Clara Valley residents of all ages are reading as part of the project Silicon
Valley Reads: One Book, One Community, which began this month.

''How we break through the obstacles in our lives is something we can share to
develop a stronger sense of community,'' said Jimenez, now 59 and professor of
modern languages and literatures and director of ethnic studies at Santa Clara
University.

''People from all backgrounds -- Japanese, Portuguese, Vietnamese -- are saying
they feel I'm writing about them.''

In February, the public is invited to gather with the author to share their
reactions at various venues. If you haven't picked up a copy of the slim volume,
it's not too late to join this page-turning adventure.

''The reading period does not end in January; it goes through February,'' said
James Alexander, eBooks director at Adobe Systems, a project co-sponsor.

Jimenez is excited about meeting readers during February's events. More than
4,000 people voted for his book last fall, selecting it over three other choices
including Amy Tan's ''The Bonesetter's Daughter.''

Published by Houghton Mifflin in 2001, the memoir has sold nearly 30,000 copies
-- with 8,000 copies purchased since October.

While the memoir is still available at bookstores, Adobe is offering it for free
as a downloaded eBook off the Internet in both English and Spanish during the
two-month project. The group's Web site, www.siliconvalleyreads. org, includes a
study guide for families and a list of retailers for books in English and
Spanish. To download the eBook version in English or in Spanish, go to
www.siliconvalley reads.org/bookdownload. asp .

''This is the first community reading program where it is possible for virtually
universal access to the book,'' said Alexander, also vice president of the San
Jose Public Library Foundation.

In addition, Borders at Santana Row is offering a 20 percent discount on all of
Jimenez's books in February, as well as providing space for book clubs to talk
about the memoir, said Denise Christensen, a store representative. The memoir
follows another book, ''The Circuit: Stories from the Life of a Migrant Child.''

Jimenez's books are ''very inspirational,'' said Laura Barreras, a graduate
student at Notre Dame University in Belmont, who's reading the memoir.

Barreras gave nephew Erik Rose, 5, a copy of Jimenez's picture book, ''The
Christmas Gift.'' She gave nephew Cain Ramirez, 14 -- an aspiring writer -- a
copy of the memoir, with an inscription from Jimenez saying he is looking
forward to reading Cain's future work.

''Francisco Jimenez is a great role model,'' said Barreras, 41. ''His message is
that you can succeed, even if you come from a difficult situation. You can work
hard, get an education and contribute to the community.''

Community is about ''feeling at home with each other,'' said Jimenez, a husband
and father of three, who earned his doctorate and master's degrees from Columbia
University. ''When we come together as a community to tell our stories, we break
through barriers that separate us from one another. We come face-to-face and see
ourselves in the other and take refuge and comfort in our shared humanity.

''When the economy is bad, we tend to be less compassionate toward others --
especially immigrants.'' But with February's events, he said, ''we'll learn from
each other.''

Contact Nora Villagran at nvillagran@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 19, 2003 Sunday PS1 EDITION

Memoir focus of reading project

BYLINE: By Nora Villagran; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words


Francisco Jimenez's worst fear came true as the eighth-grader was about to
recite the beginning of the Declaration of Independence.

''All men are created equal . . . endowed by their creator with certain
inalienable rights . . . life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.''

At 14, the undocumented immigrant -- in the United States for 10 years with his
farmworker family -- was snatched from his California classroom by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and deported to Mexico.

So begins ''Breaking Through,'' a memoir by Jimenez, which thousands of Santa
Clara Valley residents of all ages are reading as part of the project Silicon
Valley Reads: One Book, One Community, which began this month.

''How we break through the obstacles in our lives is something we can share to
develop a stronger sense of community,'' said Jimenez, now 59 and professor of
modern languages and literatures and director of ethnic studies at Santa Clara
University.

''People from all backgrounds -- Japanese, Portuguese, Vietnamese -- are saying
they feel I'm writing about them.''

In February, the public is invited to gather with the author to share their
reactions at various venues. If you haven't picked up a copy of the slim volume,
it's not too late to join this page-turning adventure.

''The reading period does not end in January; it goes through February,'' said
James Alexander, eBooks director at Adobe Systems, a project co-sponsor.

Jimenez is excited about meeting readers during February's events. More than
4,000 people voted for his book last fall, selecting it over three other choices
including Amy Tan's ''The Bonesetter's Daughter.''

Published by Houghton Mifflin in 2001, the memoir has sold nearly 30,000 copies
-- with 8,000 copies purchased since October.

While the memoir is still available at bookstores, Adobe is offering it for free
as a downloaded eBook off the Internet in both English and Spanish during the
two-month project. The group's Web site, www.silicon valleyreads.org, includes a
study guide for families and a list of retailers for books in English and
Spanish. To download the eBook version in English or in Spanish, go to
www.siliconvalleyreads. org/bookdownload.asp or click on the image of the book
on the Web site's home page.

''This is the first community reading program where it is possible for virtually
universal access to the book,'' said Alexander, also vice president of the San
Jose Public Library Foundation.

In addition, Borders at Santana Row is offering a 20 percent discount on all of
Jimenez's books in February, as well as providing space for book clubs to talk
about the memoir, said Denise Christensen, a store representative. The memoir
follows another book, ''The Circuit: Stories from the Life of a Migrant Child.''

Community is about ''feeling at home with each other,'' said Jimenez, a husband
and father of three, who earned his doctorate and master's degrees from Columbia
University. '''When we come together as a community to tell our stories, we
break through barriers that separate us from one another. We come face-to-face
and see ourselves in the other and take refuge and comfort in our shared
humanity.

''When the economy is bad, we tend to be less compassionate toward others --
especially immigrants.'' But at February's events, he said, ''we'll learn from
each other.''

Contact Nora Villagran at nvillagran@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 19, 2003 Sunday MO1 EDITION

IMMIGRANT LIFE CHRONICLED;
MEMOIR OF OVERCOMING OBSTACLES SELECTED FOR VALLEY READING PROJECT

BYLINE: By Nora Villagran; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words


Francisco Jimenez's worst fear came true as the eighth-grader was about to
recite the beginning of the Declaration of Independence.

''All men are created equal . . . endowed by their creator with certain
inalienable rights . . . life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.''

At 14, the undocumented immigrant -- in the United States for 10 years with his
farmworker family -- was snatched from his California classroom by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and deported to Mexico.

So begins ''Breaking Through,'' a memoir by Jimenez, which thousands of Santa
Clara Valley residents of all ages are reading as part of the project Silicon
Valley Reads: One Book, One Community, which began this month.

''How we break through the obstacles in our lives is something we can share to
develop a stronger sense of community,'' said Jimenez, now 59 and professor of
modern languages and literatures and director of ethnic studies at Santa Clara
University.

''People from all backgrounds -- Japanese, Portuguese, Vietnamese -- are saying
they feel I'm writing about them.''

In February, the public is invited to gather with the author to share their
reactions at various venues. If you haven't picked up a copy of the slim volume,
it's not too late to join this page-turning adventure.

''The reading period does not end in January; it goes through February,'' said
James Alexander, eBooks director at Adobe Systems, a project co-sponsor.

Jimenez is excited about meeting readers during February's events. More than
4,000 people voted for his book last fall, selecting it over three other choices
including Amy Tan's ''The Bonesetter's Daughter.''

Published by Houghton Mifflin in 2001, the memoir has sold nearly 30,000 copies
-- with 8,000 copies purchased since October.

While the memoir is still available at bookstores, Adobe is offering it for free
as a downloaded eBook off the Internet in both English and Spanish during the
two-month project. The group's Web site, www.silicon valleyreads.org, includes a
study guide for families and a list of retailers for books in English and
Spanish. To download the eBook version in English or in Spanish, go to
www.siliconvalleyreads. org/bookdownload.asp or click on the image of the book
on the Web site's home page.

''This is the first community reading program where it is possible for virtually
universal access to the book,'' said Alexander, also vice president of the San
Jose Public Library Foundation.

In addition, Borders at Santana Row is offering a 20 percent discount on all of
Jimenez's books in February, as well as providing space for book clubs to talk
about the memoir, said Denise Christensen, a store representative. The memoir
follows another book, ''The Circuit: Stories from the Life of a Migrant Child.''

Community is about ''feeling at home with each other,'' said Jimenez, a husband
and father of three, who earned his doctorate and master's degrees from Columbia
University. '''When we come together as a community to tell our stories, we
break through barriers that separate us from one another. We come face-to-face
and see ourselves in the other and take refuge and comfort in our shared
humanity.

''When the economy is bad, we tend to be less compassionate toward others --
especially immigrants.'' But at February's events, he said, ''we'll learn from
each other.''

Contact Nora Villagran at nvillagran@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 20, 2003 Monday PS1 EDITION

CAUGHT IN MIDDLE

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 695 words


Editor Shahbaz Taheri believed he was being a dutiful citizen when he published
government information about the special security registration program for U.S.
visitors from certain primarily Muslim countries in his magazine Pezhvak, a San
Jose magazine for Iranians.

But noble duty turned into horror as he learned that hundreds of Iranians in Los
Angeles, and a few dozen more in the Bay Area, were detained by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service during the registration period in December.

''I felt very bad. I thought the government used us to get to those people,''
said Taheri, an immigrant from Iran.

His own readers have called to accuse him bitterly of being a government agent,
and since then, Taheri and other Bay Area immigration advocates have been
contemplating the role they played in getting the word out about the national
security program.

Pained by the mass arrests, many are asking themselves: Did we lead people to
jail? With new deadlines approaching, lawyers and community leaders are
re-examining how they notify people and are carefully advising them that
detention is a possibility.

The INS relied heavily on grass-roots community outreach to publicize the
registration program in certain immigrant communities, using translated
documents sent to ethic television and radio stations and publications.

Iranians were among the first to register, and in December, hundreds were
detained by the INS, most for overstaying their visas -- a violation for which
complex INS procedure is in part responsible. In the latest registration period,
fewer were arrested.

The special registration program, for men and boys 16 or older from certain
African, Middle Eastern and Asian countries, is part of new national security
measures related to the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. It is designed to allow the
government to monitor the movement of foreign visitors in the United States.

Taheri said he published the registration information from the INS, and soon
thereafter received a query from an unidentified young Iranian man. The young
man had questions about the program and was nervous, Taheri said.

''No one was thinking of arrests then. I told him not to worry,'' Taheri said.

The day of the arrests in Los Angeles in December, Taheri said, ''I was in
shock. I thought of the guy who came to my office. I just kept thinking, 'Did I
send him to jail?' ''

Many civic leaders in immigrant communities, immigration lawyers, ethnic media
executives like Taheri said they never imagined that an INS registration could
lead to mass detentions. In fact, many in immigrant communities thought they
were being good citizens by urging people to comply, said Agha Saeed, chairman
of the American Muslim Alliance in Newark.

''Our role is to get the correct information out so that's exactly what's being
required and what's being asked for,'' said Asim Mughal, editor in chief of
Pakistan News Service online.

''It's still very sad that this is going on at all,'' Mughal said.

On the Pakistani News Service Web site, the registration link to the INS Web
site is prominently displayed. This time too, Mughal and others are careful to
warn people registering that detention is a possibility if their visas are out
of proper status, and that consulting a lawyer would be a good idea.

For immigration lawyers, the special registration program is no less of a
quandary.

''It makes advising very difficult,'' said Randall Caudle, an immigration lawyer
and chairman of the Santa Clara chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

''You're advising someone to go into a situation where they could be deported.
But on the other hand you can't advise them not to register and violate the law
because that's unethical,'' he said.

And that, of course, is Taheri's dilemma.

''We've been telling Iranians in America to participate in politics and
government. We're part of this society, we work, we pay our taxes. But now they
don't trust the U.S. government. They don't trust us because the feeling was we
sold them to the U.S. government. This was very upsetting,'' Taheri said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 20, 2003 Monday MO1 EDITION

Role in registration worries ethnic media

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 696 words


Editor Shahbaz Taheri believed he was being a dutiful citizen when he published
government information about the special security registration program for U.S.
visitors from certain primarily Muslim countries in his magazine Pezhvak, a San
Jose magazine for Iranians.

But noble duty turned into horror as he learned that hundreds of Iranians in Los
Angeles, and a few dozen more in the Bay Area, were detained by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service during the registration period in December.

''I felt very bad. I thought the government used us to get to those people,''
said Taheri, an immigrant from Iran.

His own readers have called to accuse him bitterly of being a government agent,
and since then, Taheri and other Bay Area immigration advocates have been
contemplating the role they played in getting the word out about the national
security program.

Pained by the mass arrests, many are asking themselves: Did we lead people to
jail? With new deadlines approaching, lawyers and community leaders are
re-examining how they notify people and are carefully advising them that
detention is a possibility.

The INS relied heavily on grass-roots community outreach to publicize the
registration program in certain immigrant communities, using translated
documents sent to ethic television and radio stations and publications.

Iranians were among the first to register, and in December, hundreds were
detained by the INS, most for overstaying their visas -- a violation for which
complex INS procedure is in part responsible. In the latest registration period,
fewer were arrested.

The special registration program, for men and boys 16 or older from certain
African, Middle Eastern and Asian countries, is part of new national security
measures related to the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. It is designed to allow the
government to monitor the movement of foreign visitors in the United States.

Taheri said he published the registration information from the INS, and soon
thereafter received a query from an unidentified young Iranian man. The young
man had questions about the program and was nervous, Taheri said.

''No one was thinking of arrests then. I told him not to worry,'' Taheri said.

The day of the arrests in Los Angeles in December, Taheri said, ''I was in
shock. I thought of the guy who came to my office. I just kept thinking, 'Did I
send him to jail?' ''

Many civic leaders in immigrant communities, immigration lawyers and ethnic
media executives like Taheri said they never imagined that an INS registration
could lead to mass detentions. In fact, many in immigrant communities thought
they were being good citizens by urging people to comply, said Agha Saeed,
chairman of the American Muslim Alliance in Newark.

''Our role is to get the correct information out so that's exactly what's being
required and what's being asked for,'' said Asim Mughal, editor in chief of
Pakistan News Service online.

''It's still very sad that this is going on at all,'' Mughal said.

On the Pakistani News Service Web site, the registration link to the INS Web
site is prominently displayed. This time too, Mughal and others are careful to
warn people registering that detention is a possibility if their visas are out
of proper status, and that consulting a lawyer would be a good idea.

For immigration lawyers, the special registration program is no less of a
quandary.

''It makes advising very difficult,'' said Randall Caudle, an immigration lawyer
and chairman of the Santa Clara chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

''You're advising someone to go into a situation where they could be deported.
But on the other hand you can't advise them not to register and violate the law
because that's unethical,'' he said.

And that, of course, is Taheri's dilemma.

''We've been telling Iranians in America to participate in politics and
government. We're part of this society, we work, we pay our taxes. But now they
don't trust the U.S. government. They don't trust us because the feeling was we
sold them to the U.S. government. This was very upsetting,'' Taheri said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 22, 2003 Wednesday PS1 EDITION

Consultants, lawyers: How they're different

BYLINE: By Edwin Garcia and Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 506 words


We've learned in recent weeks how hundreds of Bay Area immigrants sought help
from immigration consultants to help them deal with the INS bureaucracy. But
rather than help, the consultants bribed an INS supervisor or allegedly
defrauded the immigrants out of tens of thousands of dollars.

As a result, some of these immigrants face being deported.

The victims had one thing in common: They trusted the consultants, either
because they met them at church or learned of them through close-knit immigrant
networks.

Immigration consultants are not necessary to file documents with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. But if you plan to hire a consultant, here are some
tips to keep in mind, according to Dale B. Lohman, a Santa Clara County deputy
district attorney. She said under state law, immigration consultants:



 Are not attorneys and cannot give legal advice.



 Must post a $50,000 bond through the California secretary of state.



 Can advertise as a ''notary'' in English but cannot use that term in Spanish,
''notario,'' which can mean attorney or judge in some parts of Latin America.



 Must prominently display a sign in their offices, stating they are not
attorneys.



 Must provide a contract in the native language of the client.



 Cannot make a guarantee or promise about the legal outcome.

''If you deal with an immigration consultant, even if they're bonded, even if
they're completely legitimate, there are limits to the activities and services
they are allowed to perform,'' Lohman said.

Consultants, for example, can fill out forms and translate documents.

Immigration attorney Lucy Lee, a partner with Fallon Bixby Cheng & Lee in San
Francisco, said immigrants should stay away from consultants, brokers or
notarios, and spend their time instead finding a good lawyer.

''There's no liability for consultants,'' Lee said. ''They don't have a license
that can be revoked.''

Lawyers, she said, can be disbarred, which would prevent them from practicing
law.

Lee, who is also Bay Area chair of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said word-of-mouth referrals for lawyers are often the most reliable.

Here's her advice for choosing a lawyer:



 Talk to friends to find out which attorneys have a successful track record.



 Talk to other clients of a lawyer and learn about their experiences.



 Many law firms have Web sites, which list extensive backgrounds on lawyers.

Fraudulent immigration consulting is a difficult crime to prosecute, authorities
say, because many of the victims, particularly undocumented immigrants, are
reluctant to come forward.

The state attorney general has a brochure to help immigrants, called
''Immigration Services: Protecting Your Consumer Rights.'' It's available in
seven languages -- Armenian, Chinese, English, Hmong, Korean, Spanish and
Vietnamese.

The brochure is available at www.ag.ca.gov/immigrant/publications.htm

Contact Jessie Mangaliman or Edwin Garcia at immigration@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 22, 2003 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Consultants, lawyers: How they're different

BYLINE: By Edwin Garcia and Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 506 words


We've learned in recent weeks how hundreds of Bay Area immigrants sought help
from immigration consultants to help them deal with the INS bureaucracy. But
rather than help, the consultants bribed an INS supervisor or allegedly
defrauded the immigrants out of tens of thousands of dollars.

As a result, some of these immigrants face being deported.

The victims had one thing in common: They trusted the consultants, either
because they met them at church or learned of them through close-knit immigrant
networks.

Immigration consultants are not necessary to file documents with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. But if you plan to hire a consultant, here are some
tips to keep in mind, according to Dale B. Lohman, a Santa Clara County deputy
district attorney. She said under state law, immigration consultants:



 Are not attorneys and cannot give legal advice.



 Must post a $50,000 bond through the California secretary of state.



 Can advertise as a ''notary'' in English but cannot use that term in Spanish,
''notario,'' which can mean attorney or judge in some parts of Latin America.



 Must prominently display a sign in their offices, stating they are not
attorneys.



 Must provide a contract in the native language of the client.



 Cannot make a guarantee or promise about the legal outcome.

''If you deal with an immigration consultant, even if they're bonded, even if
they're completely legitimate, there are limits to the activities and services
they are allowed to perform,'' Lohman said.

Consultants, for example, can fill out forms and translate documents.

Immigration attorney Lucy Lee, a partner with Fallon Bixby Cheng & Lee in San
Francisco, said immigrants should stay away from consultants, brokers or
notarios, and spend their time instead finding a good lawyer.

''There's no liability for consultants,'' Lee said. ''They don't have a license
that can be revoked.''

Lawyers, she said, can be disbarred, which would prevent them from practicing
law.

Lee, who is also Bay Area chair of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said word-of-mouth referrals for lawyers are often the most reliable.

Here's her advice for choosing a lawyer:



 Talk to friends to find out which attorneys have a successful track record.



 Talk to other clients of a lawyer and learn about their experiences.



 Many law firms have Web sites, which list extensive backgrounds on lawyers.

Fraudulent immigration consulting is a difficult crime to prosecute, authorities
say, because many of the victims, particularly undocumented immigrants, are
reluctant to come forward.

The state attorney general has a brochure to help immigrants, called
''Immigration Services: Protecting Your Consumer Rights.'' It's available in
seven languages -- Armenian, Chinese, English, Hmong, Korean, Spanish and
Vietnamese.

The brochure is available at www.ag.ca.gov/immigrant/publications.htm

Contact Jessie Mangaliman or Edwin Garcia at immigration@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 22, 2003 Wednesday F1 EDITION

Consultants, lawyers: How they're different

BYLINE: By Edwin Garcia and Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 506 words


We've learned in recent weeks how hundreds of Bay Area immigrants sought help
from immigration consultants to help them deal with the INS bureaucracy. But
rather than help, the consultants bribed an INS supervisor or allegedly
defrauded the immigrants out of tens of thousands of dollars.

As a result, some of these immigrants face being deported.

The victims had one thing in common: They trusted the consultants, either
because they met them at church or learned of them through close-knit immigrant
networks.

Immigration consultants are not necessary to file documents with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. But if you plan to hire a consultant, here are some
tips to keep in mind, according to Dale B. Lohman, a Santa Clara County deputy
district attorney. She said under state law, immigration consultants:



 Are not attorneys and cannot give legal advice.



 Must post a $50,000 bond through the California secretary of state.



 Can advertise as a ''notary'' in English but cannot use that term in Spanish,
''notario,'' which can mean attorney or judge in some parts of Latin America.



 Must prominently display a sign in their offices, stating they are not
attorneys.



 Must provide a contract in the native language of the client.



 Cannot make a guarantee or promise about the legal outcome.

''If you deal with an immigration consultant, even if they're bonded, even if
they're completely legitimate, there are limits to the activities and services
they are allowed to perform,'' Lohman said.

Consultants, for example, can fill out forms and translate documents.

Immigration attorney Lucy Lee, a partner with Fallon Bixby Cheng & Lee in San
Francisco, said immigrants should stay away from consultants, brokers or
notarios, and spend their time instead finding a good lawyer.

''There's no liability for consultants,'' Lee said. ''They don't have a license
that can be revoked.''

Lawyers, she said, can be disbarred, which would prevent them from practicing
law.

Lee, who is also Bay Area chair of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said word-of-mouth referrals for lawyers are often the most reliable.

Here's her advice for choosing a lawyer:



 Talk to friends to find out which attorneys have a successful track record.



 Talk to other clients of a lawyer and learn about their experiences.



 Many law firms have Web sites, which list extensive backgrounds on lawyers.

Fraudulent immigration consulting is a difficult crime to prosecute, authorities
say, because many of the victims, particularly undocumented immigrants, are
reluctant to come forward.

The state attorney general has a brochure to help immigrants, called
''Immigration Services: Protecting Your Consumer Rights.'' It's available in
seven languages -- Armenian, Chinese, English, Hmong, Korean, Spanish and
Vietnamese.

The brochure is available at www.ag.ca.gov/immigrant/publications.htm

Contact Jessie Mangaliman or Edwin Garcia at immigration@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 22, 2003 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Latino population forges ahead;
LATEST CENSUS DATA SHOWS TWICE THE GROWTH RATE OF AFRICAN-AMERICANS

BYLINE: By Darryl Fears and D'Vera Cohn; Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In the months after the 2000 census, the number of Latinos who were born in the
United States or who immigrated to the country grew at more than twice the rate
of blacks, fueling the expectation that Latinos would soon emerge as the
nation's largest ethnic group.

That day has come closer, according to census estimates released Tuesday.

The black and Latino populations were nearly deadlocked in the 2000 census. In
2001, according to the new figures, that deadlock was even tighter: 37.7 million
people identified either as black, or as black and one other race, according to
the new figures. Thirty-seven million Latinos were counted.

The reason is that Latinos accounted for nearly half of the nation's total
population growth from 2000 to 2001, which includes birth and immigration rates,
according to the new estimates. During that time, the black population increased
2 percent.

In California, Latinos have outnumbered blacks for decades, largely because of
immigration. In the 2000 census, Latinos were about a third of the state
population, while blacks were about 7 percent.

Blurred racial and ethnic boundaries make such estimates difficult to parse.
Latinos can belong to any racial group, and are often mixed-race. While nearly
half identified as white in the census, an equal number checked more than one
race. In addition, some black Latinos identify solely as African-American.

The national estimates are for July 1, 2001, and are the first released since
those from the 2000 census, which took place April 1, 2000.

Census Bureau officials said they had not analyzed the data and were not ready
to draw conclusions from it. But bureau officials seemed intent on distancing
themselves from interpretations that Latinos now outnumber blacks.

''When you look at the numbers, there doesn't seem to be that big a difference
between the Hispanic population'' and the African-American population, said one
Census Bureau official, who declined to be identified.

The Census Bureau has predicted for years that Latinos would outnumber blacks as
the nation's largest minority group. Few civil rights advocates and immigration
rights and opposition groups were surprised by Tuesday's announcement.

''It doesn't surprise me,'' said Hector Flores, president of the League of
United Latin American Citizens. ''Anybody that travels around . . . can see
Latinos everywhere, working everywhere, paying taxes, trying to reach the
American Dream.''

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for Immigration Reform, which
seeks limits on immigration, said the bounding Latino growth ''comes at the
expense of other minority groups, especially black people, who have worked for
200 years to get a level playing field, a fair shot.''

Hillary Shelton, director of the NAACP's Washington bureau, disagreed. ''There
are those who would like to pit the African-American community against the
Latino community that share an awful lot more in common than we do in
differences,'' he said. ''They're trying to get racial groups to fight each
other over a small sliver of a pie.''

Mercury News staff contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 23, 2003 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Lawmakers urge fair review in INS fraud cases;
REPS. HONDA, LOFGREN ASK FOR HALT TO DEPORTATIONS OF BAY AREA IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 498 words


Two San Jose legislators asked U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft on Wednesday
to suspend deportation proceedings against hundreds of Bay Area immigrants who
were issued fake green cards years ago by a longtime INS supervisor.

Reps. Mike Honda and Zoe Lofgren, both Democrats, sent Ashcroft a letter asking
that the government carefully review the cases against the mostly Korean
immigrants. They cited recent articles in the San Jose Mercury News that
detailed the plight of the immigrants, many of whom came to the country legally
and are only now realizing they were part of a green-card scheme.

''We are not asking for blanket amnesty for these individuals; rather, we ask
you to use your discretionary power to assure a fair process of review for each
of the 275 cases reportedly involved with this scheme,'' Honda and Lofgren
wrote.

A spokesman for Ashcroft and local Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials did not return calls Wednesday.

In one of the largest green-card fraud schemes in the Bay Area, Leland Dwayne
Sustaire, a former INS supervisor in San Jose, accepted at least $500,000 in
bribes from immigration consultants over 12 years in exchange for green cards he
authorized. Sustaire avoided jail time by testifying against the four
consultants who bribed him.

Sustaire furnished government prosecutors with a list of 275 alien registration
numbers, which correspond to green cards he issued in exchange for bribes.

Government prosecutors and at least one of the convicted consultants have said
the immigrants did not know about the scheme. But the INS contends the
immigrants knew what they were getting into and were willing participants.

In their letter, Honda and Lofgren said it is the government's responsibility to
show that the immigrants knew about the plot.

''In light of these reports of innocence and the fact that these immigrants have
detrimentally relied upon the acts of a corrupt government official,'' the
letter read, ''it is incumbent that the burden be placed upon the government to
prove actual fraud by the immigrant before deportation occurs.''

Santa Clara attorney Alex Park, who represents 95 of the green-card recipients,
said he was encouraged by the letter.

''I just want a fair process, that's all,'' said Park, who said the Korean
consul general in San Francisco, Jong Hoon Kim, planned to meet with local INS
officials about the case.

One immigrant who received a green card was deported last year. Two others
recently went to trial and are awaiting rulings. At least 15 others have
received deportation notices.

Many of the other immigrants are coping with the possibility that they could be
next.

''No one asked what about the victims, and what's going to happen to them when
they come up again to renew their status,'' Honda said in an interview. ''Now
with this overlay of 9/11, these guys are being victimized again by the same
agency.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     January 23, 2003 Thursday PS1 EDITION

Legislators urge fair review in INS fraud

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 483 words


Two San Jose legislators asked U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft on Wednesday
to suspend deportation proceedings against hundreds of Bay Area immigrants who
were issued fake green cards years ago by a longtime INS supervisor.

Reps. Mike Honda and Zoe Lofgren, both Democrats, sent Ashcroft a letter asking
that the government carefully review the cases against the mostly Korean
immigrants. They cited recent articles in the San Jose Mercury News that
detailed the plight of the immigrants, many of whom came to the country legally
and are only now realizing they were part of a green-card scheme.

''We are not asking for blanket amnesty for these individuals; rather, we ask
you to use your discretionary power to assure a fair process of review for each
of the 275 cases reportedly involved with this scheme,'' Honda and Lofgren
wrote.

A spokesman for Ashcroft and local Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials did not return calls Wednesday.

In one of the largest green-card fraud schemes in the Bay Area, Leland Dwayne
Sustaire, a former INS supervisor in San Jose, accepted at least $500,000 in
bribes from immigration consultants over 12 years in exchange for green cards he
authorized. Sustaire avoided jail time by testifying against the four
consultants who bribed him.

Sustaire furnished government prosecutors with a list of 275 alien registration
numbers, which correspond to green cards he issued in exchange for bribes.

Government prosecutors and at least one of the convicted consultants have said
the immigrants did not know about the scheme. But the INS contends the
immigrants knew what they were getting into and were willing participants.

In their letter, Honda and Lofgren said it is the government's responsibility to
show that the immigrants knew about the plot.

''In light of these reports of innocence and the fact that these immigrants have
detrimentally relied upon the acts of a corrupt government official,'' the
letter read, ''it is incumbent that the burden be placed upon the government to
prove actual fraud by the immigrant before deportation occurs.''

Santa Clara attorney Alex Park, who represents 95 of the green-card recipients,
said he was encouraged by the letter.

''I just want a fair process, that's all,'' said Park, who said the Korean
consul general in San Francisco, Jong Hoon Kim, planned to meet with local INS
officials about the case.

One immigrant who received a green card was deported last year. Two others
recently went to trial and are awaiting rulings. At least 15 others have
received deportation notices.

''No one asked what about the victims, and what's going to happen to them when
they come up again to renew their status,'' Honda said in an interview. ''Now
with this overlay of 9/11, these guys are being victimized again by the same
agency.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 23, 2003 Thursday F1 EDITION

Lawmakers urge fair review in INS fraud cases

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 492 words


Two San Jose legislators asked U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft on Wednesday
to suspend deportation proceedings against hundreds of Bay Area immigrants who
were issued fake green cards years ago by a longtime INS supervisor.

Reps. Mike Honda and Zoe Lofgren, both Democrats, sent Ashcroft a letter asking
that the government carefully review the cases against the mostly Korean
immigrants. They cited recent articles in the San Jose Mercury News that
detailed the plight of the immigrants, many of whom came to the country legally
and are only now realizing they were part of a green-card scheme.

''We are not asking for blanket amnesty for these individuals; rather, we ask
you to use your discretionary power to assure a fair process of review for each
of the 275 cases reportedly involved with this scheme,'' Honda and Lofgren
wrote.

A spokesman for Ashcroft and local Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials did not return calls Wednesday.

In one of the largest green-card fraud schemes in the Bay Area, Leland Dwayne
Sustaire, a former INS supervisor in San Jose, accepted at least $500,000 in
bribes from immigration consultants over 12 years in exchange for green cards he
authorized. Sustaire avoided jail time by testifying against the four
consultants who bribed him.

Sustaire furnished government prosecutors with a list of 275 alien registration
numbers, which correspond to green cards he issued in exchange for bribes.

Government prosecutors and at least one of the convicted consultants have said
the immigrants did not know about the scheme. But the INS contends the
immigrants knew what they were getting into and were willing participants.

Honda and Lofgren said it is the government's responsibility to show that the
immigrants knew about the plot.

''In light of these reports of innocence and the fact that these immigrants have
detrimentally relied upon the acts of a corrupt government official,'' the
letter read, ''it is incumbent that the burden be placed upon the government to
prove actual fraud by the immigrant before deportation occurs.''

Santa Clara attorney Alex Park, who represents 95 of the green-card recipients,
said he was encouraged by the letter.

''I just want a fair process, that's all,'' said Park, who said the Korean
consul general in San Francisco, Jong Hoon Kim, planned to meet with INS
officials about the case.

One immigrant who received a green card was deported last year. Two others
recently went to trial and are awaiting rulings. At least 15 others have
received deportation notices.

Many of the others are coping with the possibility that they could be next.

''No one asked what about the victims, and what's going to happen to them when
they come up again to renew their status,'' Honda said in an interview. ''Now
with this overlay of 9/11, these guys are being victimized again by the same
agency.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      February 4, 2003 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Apply for citizenship 5 years after approval of residency

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 369 words


Q I immigrated to the United States in 1992 but didn't receive a permanent
resident card until February 2002. When am I eligible to apply for my U.S.
citizenship? Doesn't the law state you can apply after living in the United
States for five years?

A Not quite, said Sharon Rummery, Immigration and Naturalization Service
spokeswoman. Rummery said you can apply for citizenship five years from the time
you received INS approval for your residency. Check your correspondence and see
what approval date is listed on your paperwork. That would have preceded the
issuance of the permanent resident card. Wait five years and then you can apply
for citizenship.

This is regarding the Jan. 28 column about keeping cats out of a garden bed. I
have a few ideas. Two-inch or larger river rocks in the unplanted area look
nice, last longer, keep weeds out and prevent cats from digging.

Also, lightweight bird netting sold at hardware stores for protecting fruit
trees is cheap, practically invisible and easy to work with (cuts by scissors).
Cats can't dig through it and will stay away.

Other ideas for ground cover include crushed granite or rocks.

I have a cheap and easy remedy to discourage cats from digging around the
garden. Pour some vinegar all over the area. I've found that it works well and
discourages visits by cats.

I shake some kitchen cleanser, such as Comet, around areas I don't want cats to
dig, and they keep away.

I, too, have problems with cats using my yard. I don't blame the cats, but blame
the owners. What do my neighbors think every morning and evening when they open
their door and let their cats out? They either aren't thinking or don't care.

Need help? Here is how to reach us:



 Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190



 E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com



 On the Web: www.mercurynews.com



 Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)



 Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      February 4, 2003 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

'Fair process' by INS urged for scam victims

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 340 words


Two members of the state Assembly introduced a resolution Monday asking the INS
to conduct a ''fair process'' when considering whether to deport Bay Area
immigrants who were issued fake green cards by a former INS supervisor more than
a decade ago.

Assemblyman Manny Diaz, D-San Jose, and Assemblywoman Carol Liu, D-Los Angeles,
co-wrote the resolution, which also asked U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft to
review the cases fairly.

''These immigrants thought they were going through a legal process and then they
find out it was scam,'' Diaz said Monday. ''I don't think it's right that the
INS is now trying to deport them.''

Last month, two San Jose legislators, U.S. Reps. Mike Honda and Zoe Lofgren,
asked that the attorney general suspend the deportation hearings until each case
is carefully reviewed. The request came after Mercury News articles detailed the
scheme by a former INS supervisor, Leland Dwayne Sustaire, who admitted
receiving $500,000 in bribes from immigration consultants in exchange for
issuing 275 green cards over a period of 12 years.

Sustaire and four San Jose immigration consultants were convicted in the scam.
Sustaire avoided jail time by testifying against the consultants.

Many of the mostly Korean immigrants are Bay Area professionals, who said they
didn't know about the scheme. At least one has been deported; 16 others have
received deportation notices.

''This corruption at the INS could devastate the lives of hundreds of families
if we do not intervene immediately,'' Diaz said.

He is asking the INS to conduct a case-by-case review before proceeding with
deportations.

INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery declined to discuss the resolution, and a
spokesman for Ashcroft could not be reached for comment.

''The Assembly is asking the attorney general to do what's right,'' said Santa
Clara attorney Alex Park, who represents 95 of the immigrants. ''Every single
effort is going to make a difference in finding a solution.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 4, 2003 Tuesday

State assembly members write resolution for Bay Area immigrants for

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

LENGTH: 246 words


Two members of the state assembly introduced a resolution Monday asking the INS
to conduct a ''fair process'' when considering whether to deport Bay Area
immigrants who were issued fake green cards by a former INS supervisor more than
a decade ago.

Assemblyman Manny Diaz, D-San Jose, and Assemblywoman Carol Liu, D-Los Angeles,
co-authored the resolution, which also asked U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft
to review the cases fairly.

''These immigrants thought they were going through a legal process and then they
find out it was scam,'' Diaz said Monday. ''I don't think it's right that the
INS is now trying to deport them.''

Last month, two San Jose legislators, U.S. Reps. Mike Honda and Zoe Lofgren,
asked that the attorney general suspend the deportation hearings until each case
is carefully reviewed. The request came after Mercury News articles detailed the
scheme by former INS supervisor, Leland Dwayne Sustaire, who admitted receiving
$500,000 in bribes from immigration consultants in exchange for issuing 275
green cards over a period of 12 years.

Sustaire and four San Jose immigration consultants were convicted in the scam.
Sustaire avoided jail time by testifying against the consultants.

Many of the mostly Korean immigrants are Bay Area professionals, who said that
they didn't know about the scheme. At least one has been deported; 16 others
have received deportation notices.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 6, 2003 Thursday CU1 EDITION

Area man opens center for fellow immigrants;
AID PROVIDED TO REFUGEES IS GROUNDED IN COMMON EXPERIENCE

BYLINE: By Nerissa Pacio; Mercury News

SECTION: CU; Pg. NWS

LENGTH: 810 words


As a young boy growing up in Iraq, Imad Jonaby imagined he'd one day practice
law in his country. Instead, years later, he found himself fleeing his homeland
as a refugee of the Persian Gulf War.

With the help of an international social work agency, he emigrated to San
Francisco in 1993 without family and unable to speak English.

''It was a tough task getting here,'' said Jonaby, 31. ''It was a new country, a
new society, a new language. I had to start from zero and could not bring
anything with me but my memories and my experience.''

Jonaby took his experiences and used them to help Iraqis and others in the South
Bay. He opened the Iraqi Community Center recently in Sunnyvale and serves as
its executive director. The opening comes at time when even a community leader
such as Jonaby is affected by the tensions of a possible U.S. war with Iraq.
Though he plans to host a formal opening for the center, Jonaby chose not to be
photographed for this article.

Located in a gutted tech company building on Potrero Avenue, the center provides
social services and referrals for newly arrived Arab immigrants. The center also
serves the growing number of Iraqi refugees, who, after the gulf war, emigrated
to San Francisco and are now moving to the valley.

According to estimates from the 2000 U.S. Census, there are 132 foreign-born
Iraqis and 511 Arabic speakers in Sunnyvale. In the past few years, Jonaby said,
as many as 600 to 700 Iraqis from San Francisco have moved to the Sunnyvale area
for the schools, suburban atmosphere and cheaper rents. The number has grown
also because of word of mouth among the tightly knit community.

Jonaby opened the Sunnyvale center as an extension of the Iraqi Community
Association, a non-profit group that he founded in San Francisco five years ago.

Jonaby's first job in San Francisco was at a shipping and receiving company,
where he worked days and took community college classes at night to learn
English.

Wanting to help others who faced similar struggles, he joined Survivors
International, a non-profit organization serving immigrants and refugees,
especially survivors of torture.

He worked closely with Arab immigrants and soon after created the spin-off Iraqi
Community Association, to target the special needs of Iraqis and other Arabs.

Though he still intends to pursue law in the future, the focus of his career has
become helping his people in their new country.

''I could feel the struggle of the Iraqis who had come here,'' Jonaby said. ''I
could, from experience, relate to the people we served.''

The Sunnyvale center will have many of the same free resettlement services that
its counterpart provides in San Francisco. Case managers will help with
immigration, housing and other social services, and they will refer people for
medical needs.

Programs for youths and women are also available, including after-school
tutoring, Saturday Arabic classes, English as a second language, computing
classes and counseling.

''There's a cultural and religious understanding that we have for our clients,''
said Saeda Fuller, a women's case manager and youth director for the Iraqi
Community Association. ''Women may feel better about coming to us and opening
up, for example, in cases of domestic abuse because there's more of a sense of
trust.''

Language translation is the most needed service for clients, Fuller said.

The Sunnyvale center, which at this point looks more like a bare-bones office
decorated with Persian rugs, also serves as a gathering place for cultural and
religious events. Since its opening, Thursday evenings have become the day Iraqi
families gather for prayer and socializing.

Time spent with others in the community is especially comforting during this
heated political climate, said Mona Alshahbawi, who teaches Arabic at the
center.

''We talk about how we are worried about our families who are still in Iraq
now,'' said Alshahbawi, whose parents live in Iraq. ''We share the experience
from our homeland.''

Alshahbawi's 17-year-old son, Hasaan Alali, said the Thursday gatherings give
him a chance to see his Iraqi friends whom he doesn't see during the rest of the
week. He also enjoys being part of the youth group where he can relate to
similar experiences of other Arab youth.

''All of us have faced a time when someone was racist to us,'' said Alali, who
recalled being chased in San Francisco by a group of men throwing objects at him
and a friend.

Although many Iraqi families are already taking advantage of the new center,
Jonaby is unsure how it will be received by the rest of Sunnyvale. He hopes for
the best.

''We don't want people to relate negative things with Iraqis,'' Jonaby said. ''I
want people to know we're here to live a peaceful life and to contribute to our
new country.''

Contact Nerissa Pacio at npacio@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      February 7, 2003 Friday PS1 EDITION

Peninsula in Brief

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 531 words

SANTA CLARA COUNTY

Santa Clara County government officials, religious leaders and immigrant
advocates on Thursday joined a growing chorus of people who are putting pressure
on the INS to suspend deportation proceedings against hundreds of Korean
immigrants who were issued fake green cards by a former INS supervisor more than
a decade ago.

At a news conference called by state Assemblyman Manny Diaz, D-San Jose,
representatives of the groups said the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft should conduct individual case reviews
of the 275 mostly Korean immigrants who may be forced to leave the country.

''We're not picking on the INS,'' said James McEntee, director of the Santa
Clara County Office of Human Relations. ''We're just saying get things right.''

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the INS in San Francisco, declined to comment.
Ashcroft has not responded to requests by legislators to stop the deportation
proceedings.

An underground plume of perchlorate, a chemical used in rocket fuel and highway
flares that has contaminated some drinking-water wells in southern Santa Clara
County, has spread farther than officials originally thought.

Results from new tests in the San Martin area show contamination in wells west
and south of a four-mile-long target area where Santa Clara Valley Water
District officials suspected that perchlorate tainted drinking-water supplies.

Initial results of the water district's large-scale tests of wells in the area
won't be available until next week, but tests ordered by other government
agencies showed the spread of the plume Thursday.

Oakland Raiders defensive lineman Darrell Russell may find himself in court
again to face a civil lawsuit by a woman who accused him of sexual assault.

Criminal charges that accused Russell and two friends of raping the woman were
dropped in September because prosecutor Kevin Murphy said there was not enough
evidence to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt.

Now the 28-year-old Sunnyvale woman is seeking damages against Russell, Na'eem
Perry, 25, of Berkeley, and Ali Hayes, 27, of Oakland over the alleged rape.
Raiders defensive back Eric Johnson, 26, who rented the home in Alameda where
the alleged Jan. 31, 2002, assault occurred, is also a defendant.

After establishing itself in San Francisco, the East Bay and Palo Alto, City
CarShare -- a non-profit group that asks Bay Area residents to choose communal
vehicles over car ownership -- has expanded its program to the University of
California-Berkeley, putting two of its green Volkswagen Beetles on campus.

The university seems to be a good fit for the program, said Larry Magid,
CarShare's executive director.

Its proximity to BART and AC Transit lines, students with limited incomes, and a
parking space shortage that makes anyone think twice about driving near campus
all add up to make the university an ideal place for car sharing, Magid said.

But CarShare officials also are excited about the University of
California-Berkeley partnership because they get to introduce car sharing to
young drivers.

From Mercury News staff reports

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      February 7, 2003 Friday MO1 EDITION

Pressure builds for review of deportations

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 554 words


Santa Clara County government officials, religious leaders and immigrant
advocates Thursday joined a growing chorus of people who are putting pressure on
the INS to suspend deportation proceedings against hundreds of Korean immigrants
who were issued fake green cards by a former INS supervisor more than a decade
ago.

At a news conference called by state Assemblyman Manny Diaz, D-San Jose,
representatives of the groups said the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and Attorney General John Ashcroft should conduct individual case reviews of the
275 mostly Korean immigrants who may be forced to leave the country.

''We're not picking on the INS,'' said James McEntee, director of Santa Clara
County's office of human relations. ''We're just saying get things right.''

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the INS in San Francisco, declined to comment.
Ashcroft has not responded to requests by legislators to stop the deportation
proceedings.

A series of articles in the Mercury News last month detailed the plight of the
immigrants, who said they applied for green cards not knowing that the San Jose
immigration consultants they hired were bribing an INS official who authorized
the documents.

Leland Dwayne Sustaire, a former supervisor at the INS office in San Jose, was
convicted in federal court of accepting $500,000 in bribes from the consultants
over a 12-year period. Sustaire received probation and the four consultants
served jail time ranging from several months to three years.

''Today, we stand side by side with the Korean-American community,'' said Helal
Omeira, executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations in Santa
Clara.

''Our collective outrage today screams for justice,'' said Teresa Castellanos,
of the Services, Immigrant Rights Education Network in San Jose.

On Monday, Diaz introduced a resolution asking the INS and Ashcroft to conduct a
''fair process'' when considering whether to deport the immigrants. Reps. Mike
Honda and Zoe Lofgren, both of San Jose, have also asked for a careful review.

Alex Park, a Santa Clara attorney who represents 95 of the immigrants, said he
hopes the combined pressure from community groups and government officials will
persuade the INS to suspend the deportation proceedings. One immigrant has been
deported and at least 17 others have received deportation notices.

Those who are awaiting hearings learned that they were part of a green-card
scheme upon their return to the United States after traveling abroad.

In recent weeks, the INS appears to have stepped up efforts to round up the
immigrants, Park said. He said the INS has recently hired six agents to work on
the cases. He also said at least 15 of his clients have received phone calls or
letters from INS investigators, asking the immigrants to show up for interviews
''regarding the status of their green cards.''

''The INS is moving fast,'' Park said. ''The INS is going after these people
actively.''

Park and others fear that the immigrants will not get a fair chance to prove
their innocence.

''We support the immigrants in their pursuit of justice because we believe it's
right,'' said the Rev. Duk Soo Kim, president of the Council Korean-American
Churches Association in the Bay Area.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       February 7, 2003 Friday F1 EDITION

More calls for review in fake green-card case

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 554 words


Santa Clara County government officials, religious leaders and immigrant
advocates Thursday joined a growing chorus of people who are putting pressure on
the INS to suspend deportation proceedings against hundreds of Korean immigrants
who were issued fake green cards by a former INS supervisor more than a decade
ago.

At a news conference called by state Assemblyman Manny Diaz, D-San Jose,
representatives of the groups said the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and Attorney General John Ashcroft should conduct individual case reviews of the
275 mostly Korean immigrants who may be forced to leave the country.

''We're not picking on the INS,'' said James McEntee, director of Santa Clara
County's office of human relations. ''We're just saying get things right.''

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the INS in San Francisco, declined to comment.
Ashcroft has not responded to requests by legislators to stop the deportation
proceedings.

A series of articles in the Mercury News last month detailed the plight of the
immigrants, who said they applied for green cards not knowing that the San Jose
immigration consultants they hired were bribing an INS official who authorized
the documents.

Leland Dwayne Sustaire, a former supervisor at the INS office in San Jose, was
convicted in federal court of accepting $500,000 in bribes from the consultants
over a 12-year period. Sustaire received probation and the four consultants
served jail time ranging from several months to three years.

''Today, we stand side by side with the Korean-American community,'' said Helal
Omeira, executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations in Santa
Clara.

''Our collective outrage today screams for justice,'' said Teresa Castellanos,
of the Services, Immigrant Rights Education Network in San Jose.

On Monday, Diaz introduced a resolution asking the INS and Ashcroft to conduct a
''fair process'' when considering whether to deport the immigrants. Reps. Mike
Honda and Zoe Lofgren, both of San Jose, have also asked for a careful review.

Alex Park, a Santa Clara attorney who represents 95 of the immigrants, said he
hopes the combined pressure from community groups and government officials will
persuade the INS to suspend the deportation proceedings. One immigrant has been
deported and at least 17 others have received deportation notices.

Those who are awaiting hearings learned that they were part of a green-card
scheme upon their return to the United States after traveling abroad.

In recent weeks, the INS appears to have stepped up efforts to round up the
immigrants, Park said. He said the INS has recently hired six agents to work on
the cases. He also said at least 15 of his clients have received phone calls or
letters from INS investigators, asking the immigrants to show up for interviews
''regarding the status of their green cards.''

''The INS is moving fast,'' Park said. ''The INS is going after these people
actively.''

Park and others fear that the immigrants will not get a fair chance to prove
their innocence.

''We support the immigrants in their pursuit of justice because we believe it's
right,'' said the Rev. Duk Soo Kim, president of the Council Korean-American
Churches Association in the Bay Area.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 14, 2003 Friday

INS foreign college student tracking system goes online

BYLINE: Associated Press

LENGTH: 523 words


A revamped system aimed at giving the Immigration and Naturalization Service
quicker access to information about foreign college students is set to go online
Saturday.

The Student and Exchange Visitor Program, known as SEVIS, is meant to be a
faster-moving version of long-standing procedures that require colleges to
monitor the academic status and addresses of foreign students.

Instead of maintaining the files on campus, SEVIS requires colleges to forward
that information to a national computer database.

While the SEVIS program was authorized in 1996, implementation gained momentum
in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Some of the terrorists entered
the country on student visas.

Reaction among foreign students has been mixed, while some critics have
complained that the program is too intrusive.

INS spokesman Chris Bentley said 3,907 colleges and universities are ready to
participate when SEVIS goes online Saturday, and 1,941 more have applications
pending. Originally scheduled to be operational on Jan. 30, INS delayed the
rollout to resolve last-minute problems with the system and to allow the
participation of more schools.

Colleges lacking INS approval to participate in the system will be prohibited
from enrolling new foreign students.

Schools must notify the INS if an international student fails to enroll or is
arrested. Students are responsible for reporting status changes -- such as a new
address -- to their respective schools. The INS may share its data with the
Homeland Security Agency, the FBI and Central Intelligence Agency.

''If it works seamlessly, the foreign students shouldn't know it even exists,
unless a fee is imposed to finance SEVIS,'' said Victor Johnson, the executive
director of the National Association of Foreign Student Advisers.

''It's information they've already supplied to international offices anyway,''
he said.

Bentley said that foreign students will not be penalized for system glitches or
reporting delays from colleges.

''As for individuals who do something to jeopardize their immigration status,
yes, they could be held accountable for that,'' he said. Penalties include
deportation.

Michael Ivy, the director of International Programs Information Technology at
Purdue University in West Lafayette, Ind., said the school's 5,015 international
students participated in the SEVIS program without hesitation.

''We have had some curiosity, but we've assured them that we've done everything
we could to protect their privacy,'' Ivy said.

Jun Yoshizaki, a doctoral student and president of the Japanese Scholar and
Student Association at North Carolina State University, said foreign students
have accepted SEVIS as a condition for attending college in the United States.

''The people in this country are more sensitive about those things,'' said
Yoshizaki.

But Rebecca Thornton of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights said SEVIS is
''just another instance of the government collecting massive information trying
to get leads for terrorism suspects by really casting a broader net than is
effective.''

------

On the Net:

INS: http:/www.ins.gov

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    February 19, 2003 Wednesday PS1 EDITION

INS registration deadline extended;
MIDDLE EASTERN MEN HAVE 4 MORE WEEKS

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 343 words


The federal government has extended the registration deadline for those
temporary U.S. visitors who are required to enroll in a national border security
program.

Friday's deadline for visitors from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia has been extended
for four weeks, to March 21. The registration program for visitors from
Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan or Kuwait was also extended a month, to
April 25.

The registration program requires male visitors from these countries, 16 years
or older, who were in the United States before Oct. 1 to register with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Those required to register are students, workers on extended business travel,
and tourists on extended family visits. U.S. citizens, lawful permanent
residents (green card holders), refugees, asylum applicants, asylum grantees and
diplomats or others admitted under A or G visas are not required to register.

In a statement issued Tuesday, the Department of Justice said the deadline was
extended ''in response to requests for more time from different individuals and
entities.''

Government officials and groups that support the program have said the
registration is necessary to keep track of tens of millions of foreign visitors
on temporary visas.

Civil libertarians, immigrant advocacy groups and diplomats criticize the
program as an ineffective method of catching terrorists.

''It's hard to feel happy about an extension of a bad program,'' said Heba Nimr,
an attorney with INS Watch-La Raza Centro Legal, a watchdog group based in San
Francisco.

''The best news would be the termination of the program,'' she said.

Hundreds of Iranians in Southern California and in the Bay Area were detained in
December last year after the first round of registration.

Nimr's group monitored the registration at the INS office in San Francisco. A
new group, the Alliance of South Asians Taking Action, based in San Francisco,
will monitor the continuing registration at the San Jose INS office.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    February 19, 2003 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Daughter should remain in U.S. after status change

BYLINE: By Edwin Garcia and Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 472 words


Q My wife and I are legal residents who will qualify to apply for citizenship in
November. Our oldest child is a college student and holds the non-immigrant V
visa, which allows minors to reside in the United States while parents wait for
their immigration paperwork to be completed. However, she turns 21 a few months
before we can apply, which means she'll lose her visa and her work permit until
we reapply for her as citizens. What can we do?

A Your daughter should remain in the country after she lapses into undocumented
status, because if she leaves after her birthday she could be subject to the
10-year bar on re-entry because of her ''unlawful presence,'' said Mark
Silverman, an attorney with the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San
Francisco. If she lapses into undocumented status, she will regain documented
status after her parents are citizens, Silverman said. In addition, if the
daughter entered the United States before December 1998, she may be eligible for
family unity, which would allow her to stay legally in the country, Silverman
said.

Q I came to the United States on June 29, 2001, on a V-1 visa, sponsored by my
wife, who has a pending green card application. I have a valid employment work
authorization from the INS, and I am currently employed. I have received an
adjustment of status (I-485) package from the INS, as my priority date is about
to become current. Do I need to complete an Affidavit of Support (I-864) since I
am currently employed?

A Yes, you have to complete an Affidavit of Support, INS Form I-864, and submit
it along with the rest of your application for adjustment of status, said Indu
Liladhar-Hathi, an immigration lawyer in San Jose.

Sacred Heart Community Service of San Jose is seeking volunteers to help before
and during its March 15 citizenship day, an event organized by the Santa Clara
County Citizenship Collaborative.

Volunteers are needed in community outreach, translation and interpretation,
setup and cleanup, and to be monitors, greeters, guides and to help with
applications.

Training will be March 8 and 11 at Sacred Heart Community Service and March 14
at the Center for Employment Training.

To volunteer, or for more information, call Pablo Pineda at (408) 278-2169, or
e-mail pablop@shcstheheart.org

The INS will conduct a public workshop on citizenship and naturalization, part
of a series on immigration issues, from 1 to 3 p.m. today at the Gilroy Family
Resource Center, 8833 Monterey St., Suite G. Walk-ins are allowed if space is
available. The next workshop, an overview of adjustment status, will be Tuesday
at the INS office, 1887 Monterey Road, San Jose. It will be presented in English
with Spanish translation. Reservations are required for both workshops at (408)
918-3986.

Send your questions to immigration@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    February 19, 2003 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

INS registration deadline extended;
VISITORS FROM MIDEAST NATIONS ALLOWED FOUR MORE WEEKS PAST INITIAL CUT-OFF DATE

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 344 words


The federal government has extended the registration deadline for those
temporary U.S. visitors who are required to enroll in a national border security
program.

Friday's deadline for visitors from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia has been extended
for four weeks, to March 21. The registration program for visitors from
Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan or Kuwait was also extended a month, to
April 25.

The registration program requires male visitors from these countries, 16 years
or older, who were in the United States before Oct. 1, 2002, to register with
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Those required to register are students, workers on extended business travel or
tourists on extended family visits. U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents
(green card holders), refugees, asylum applicants, asylum grantees and diplomats
or others admitted under A or G visas are not required to register.

In a statement issued Tuesday, the Department of Justice said the deadline was
extended ''in response to requests for more time from different individuals and
entities.''

Government officials and groups that support the program have said the
registration is necessary to keep track of tens of millions of foreign visitors
on temporary visas.

Civil libertarians, immigrant advocacy groups and diplomats criticize the
program as an ineffective method of catching terrorists.

''It's hard to feel happy about an extension of a bad program,'' said Heba Nimr,
an attorney with INS Watch-La Raza Centro Legal, a watchdog group based in San
Francisco.

''The best news would be the termination of the program,'' she said.

Hundreds of Iranians in Southern California and in the Bay Area were detained in
December last year after the first round of registration.

Nimr's group monitored the registration at the INS office in San Francisco. A
new group, the Alliance of South Asians Taking Action, based in San Francisco,
will monitor the continuing registration at the San Jose INS office.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 20, 2003 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Immigrant need not apply for green card in this case

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 373 words


Q I came to the United States in December 1983 as an immigrant. Because I was
only 12, my father had to file a petition to allow me to be here under his
immigration papers. My father never applied for citizenship. I was issued an
alien (green) card that had no expiration date on it and never thought about it
until the recent immigration problems were in the news.

I went to the Immigration and Naturalization Service Web site and found that I
was supposed to renew this alien card since it was good for only 10 years. I do
want to apply for citizenship, but do I need to apply for a new green card
first? There's a $100 fee for a new green card and $300 to apply for
citizenship.



M. Larue
A Save that $100 because you don't need to replace that green card, said Sharon
Rummery, INS spokeswoman. Rummery said people should apply for a new green card
when they reach 14 years of age. But since that was long ago for you and you
want to apply for citizenship, just go down to the INS offices and start the
citizenship process.

There is a solution to the long lines leaving the parking garage at the Mineta
San Jose International Airport. The city of San Francisco operates a parking
garage on Mission Street where you have to pay at a counter before you walk back
to your car. The clock stops then, and you are given a card with a magnetic
strip. You have 15 minutes to leave the garage.

That is plenty of time because you no longer have to wait for people to pay.
There are also machines in this garage that will take your money and issue you
the magnetic strip, so you don't have to wait for the clerk at the counter.

Need help? Here is how to reach us:



 Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190



 E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com



 On the Web: www.mercury news.com Then click on columnists and then click Action
Line.



 Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)



 Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 27, 2003 Thursday PS1 EDITION

Author writes immigrant tale from the heart

BYLINE: By Joe Rodriguez; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 644 words


Talk about living well. Dapper in a suave, mock turtleneck and gray blazer, the
college professor and acclaimed author of children's books looked more like a
CEO at a cocktail party. You'd never know he was once a Mexican border jumper
deported during Operation Wetback.

Francisco Jimenez, professor of modern languages at Santa Clara University, was
signing copies of his latest book, ''Breaking Through,'' Tuesday night. A line
of students, teachers and other autograph-seekers stretched into the hallway.
This was Jimenez's 15th public discussion of his book, the first selection of
the Silicon Valley Reads project.

I took a seat in a middle row, not far from graduate student Marco Antonio Diaz.

''Jimenez is a soft-spoken man, but his words have power,'' Diaz told me. ''His
family was just like mine, farmworkers. We're from Cantua Creek. Do you know
where that is?'' (Fresno County.)

Jimenez picked crops as a boy in Santa Maria, near San Luis Obispo.

''It's true,'' Diaz said, ''what Jimenez says about literature and children.
They will connect if they see themselves in it.''

Jimenez's book is the sequel to ''The Circuit,'' an autobiographical novel that
follows a migrant family from Jalisco to California, and to their eventual
deportation, which is where ''Breaking Through'' picks up the story and follows
the boy through high school.

''I wrote these books to voice the experience of a large sector of our society
that has been, frankly, ignored,'' Jimenez told the audience. ''The migrant
experience had to be told because it is an American experience.''

As the discussion went on -- we were in San Jose State's student union -- it
became an oddly pleasant if disjointed blend of lecture, your basic
meet-the-author reading, and presentations by three Mexican-American professors
at SJSU invited to tell their own, similar stories.

That's a lot to pack into two hours, but Jimenez didn't mind, and his message
came through anyway.

Like so many works of Mexican-American literature, which is a relatively new
genre, his books are about a conquered people struggling to maintain their
cultural identity and, as the book title implies, break through the barriers of
history, discrimination and social class.

As Jimenez was anxious to remind everyone, this isn't entirely a new story. It's
the multicultural story of the Irish, Jews, Italians, Africans and so many other
groups in America.

''Every single ethnic group,'' he said, ''contributed to the development of our
nation.''

Largely avoiding the messy politics of the day, Jimenez sticks to family history
and matters of the heart. The masters of ethnic American literature -- like my
earliest favorite, Isaac Bashevis Singer -- knew the secret to cultural
acceptance is convincing the other guy he's more like you than he thinks, but
without making him confess he thought otherwise.

Jimenez pulls it off with understated prose, grace, humor and humility. The pain
and sacrifices of his Mexican parents might make you cry, the bigotry he
encounters might make you scream, the country-boy goofs in the city make you
laugh out loud, but you probably won't. You won't because Jimenez doesn't.

First, loud isn't his style, but mostly it's because he writes from the point of
view and voice of his teenage self, a good-natured Mexican kid who doesn't
understand what's happened until later. That must be one reason so many kids and
young adults enjoy his books, and why ''Breaking Through'' already has won
several national prizes. The kids know instinctively that wisdom comes slowly,
and with belated sighs or smiles.

Jimenez already has a contract for the third leg of his trilogy, the story of a
first-generation college student. It's the logical next step in the universal
Amer-immigrant experience.

Contact Joe Rodriguez at jrodriguez @sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 1, 2003 Saturday PS1 EDITION

Hotline eases visitors' fears;
VOLUNTEERS IN NEWARK RESPOND TO IMMIGRANTS' QUESTIONS, CONCERNS ON SPECIAL
REGISTRATION

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 528 words


In a long, narrow room with one window, Samina Faheem operates the country's
only volunteer hotline designed to answer questions about a new national
security program that requires men and boys from certain countries to register
with the federal government.

''AMA-PADF hotline, may I help you?'' Faheem said in the cramped Newark office
of the American Muslim Alliance and the Pakistan American Democratic Forum, two
Bay Area-based national groups that set up the hotline about a month ago.

The hotline is a response from immigrant communities across the Bay Area to the
program that requires certain people on temporary visas to register with the
former Immigration and Naturalization Service -- which today was dissolved and
absorbed into the Department of Homeland Security.

The security measure, a response to the attacks of Sept. 11, is designed to
allow the government to monitor the movement of foreign visitors in the United
States.

Faheem, national coordinator for the Muslim alliance, is one of several
volunteers who staff the line, which is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. Originally fielding as many as 100 calls a day, volunteers have gotten
fewer calls, she said Friday, since the reporting deadline was extended to March
21 for visitors from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.

Some callers have questions about the requirements for special registration.
Others want to find a lawyer. Several needed bail because they or loved ones had
been detained.

''People are fearful and panicky,'' Faheem said.

Under the new regulations, visitors from 25 countries from Asia, the Middle East
and Africa must register. Government officials and some groups in favor of
restricting immigration believe the special registration is a necessary measure
to take control of the country's border security.

Since the first deadline in December, immigrant advocacy and civil liberties
groups in the Bay Area have conducted a number of legal clinics for people
required to register. The Newark hotline was set up Jan. 26 and will continue
operating for as long as a year after the March 21 deadline.

''The response has been overwhelming,'' said Agha Saeed, chairman of the Muslim
alliance. ''The need was for people to get immediate help and advice. We thought
the best way is a hotline.''

Faheem says she has heard from people across the country who hold valid visas
but have nonetheless been detained.

''It's like being on parole from prison. They're treating people who haven't
done anything like criminals,'' Saeed said.

Immigration lawyers have been overwhelmed by the number of calls about special
registration, said Ivy Lee, a staff attorney with the Asian Pacific Islanders
Legal Outreach in San Francisco.

''The hotline doesn't replace a face-to-face consultation with a lawyer, but
it's still a good idea because not everyone can attend a legal clinic,'' Lee
said.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

If you have questions about the special registration process, you can call the
toll-free hotline at (866) 815-7233. For more information on the Department of
Homeland Security, visit www.dhs.gov

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 1, 2003 Saturday

California drops suit against immigration rights group

LENGTH: 219 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif. (AP)


The state Department of Education dropped a lawsuit that claimed a former school
board member and his immigrant rights group failed to account for $7 million in
government grants.

The suit against Nativo Lopez and Hermandad Mexicana Nacional was dismissed
Friday, four days before it was to go to trial.

''We've been vindicated and exonerated,'' Lopez said. ''These were false
allegations, which is what I said from the beginning. It's unfortunate that it's
taken two years and thousands of dollars on our part for...the other side to
come to the same conclusion.''

The allegations had been used in a successful campaign to recall Lopez from the
Santa Ana school board last month.

David Cheit, an attorney representing the state, said both parties agreed not to
go to trial.

The May 2001 lawsuit alleged that Lopez, his Santa Ana group and a second Los
Angeles-based group called Hermandad Mexicana Nacional Legal Center accepted
federal grants to provide citizenship and English-language classes for
immigrants -- but never held the classes.

Under the terms of Friday's settlement, a $6.7 million judgment will be entered
against the Los Angeles center, which split from the Santa Ana group two years
ago.

However, Cheit said that center has few assets and he doubted much will be
collected.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 1, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Hotline advises immigrants

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 622 words


In a long, narrow room with one window, Samina Faheem operates the country's
only volunteer hotline designed to answer questions about a new national
security program that requires men and boys from certain countries to register
with the federal government.

''AMA-PADF hotline, may I help you?'' Faheem said in the cramped Newark office
of the American Muslim Alliance and the Pakistan American Democratic Forum, two
Bay Area-based national groups that set up the hotline about a month ago.

The hotline is a response from immigrant communities across the Bay Area to the
program that requires certain people on temporary visas to register with the
former Immigration and Naturalization Service -- which today was dissolved and
absorbed into the Department of Homeland Security.

The security measure, a response to the attacks of Sept. 11, is designed to
allow the government to monitor the movement of foreign visitors in the United
States.

Faheem, national coordinator for the Muslim alliance, is one of several
volunteers who staff the line, which is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. Originally fielding as many as 100 calls a day from Pakistanis and Muslims
around the country, volunteers have gotten fewer calls, she said Friday, since
the reporting deadline was extended to March 21 for visitors from Pakistan and
Saudi Arabia.

Some callers have questions about the requirements for special registration.
Others want to find a lawyer. Several needed bail because they or loved ones had
been detained.

''People are fearful and panicky,'' Faheem said.

Under the new regulations, visitors from 25 countries from Asia, the Middle East
and Africa must register. Government officials and some groups in favor of
restricting immigration believe the special registration is a necessary measure
to take control of the country's border security.

Since the first deadline in December, immigrant advocacy and civil liberties
groups in the Bay Area have conducted a number of legal clinics for people
required to register. The Newark hotline was set up Jan. 26 and will continue
operating for as long as a year after the March 21 deadline.

''The response has been overwhelming,'' said Agha Saeed, chairman of Muslim
alliance. ''The need was for people to get immediate help and advice. We thought
the best way is a hotline.''

Faheem says she has heard from people across the country who hold valid visas
but have nonetheless been detained. She recently found an attorney for a foreign
student from Houston who has been in detention since Jan. 29. Another Pakistani
who holds an H-1B visa was denied re-entry into the United States after visiting
a brother in Canada.

''It's like being on parole from prison. They're treating people who haven't
done anything like criminals,'' Saeed said.

Immigration lawyers have been overwhelmed by the number of calls about special
registration, said Ivy Lee, a staff attorney with the Asian Pacific Islanders
Legal Outreach in San Francisco.

''The hotline doesn't replace a face-to-face consultation with a lawyer, but
it's still a good idea because not everyone can attend a legal clinic,'' Lee
said.

Heba Nimr, an attorney with INS Watch-La Raza Centro Legal, a San Francisco
group that monitors enforcement, said the hotline is a good resource for people
who need the information the most.

''Special registration is a big system,'' Nimr said. ''This is a good tool for
dealing with it.''

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

If you have questions about the special registration process, you can call the
toll-free hotline at (866) 815-7233. For more information on the Department of
Homeland Security, visit www.dhs.gov

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        March 3, 2003 Monday MO1 EDITION

Immigration agency changes its name

BYLINE: By the Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 148 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is no more -- but those who need its
services in the Bay Area should find things much the same.

The former agency, which became part of the new Homeland Security Department at
midnight Friday, will keep its same phone numbers, hours, employees and files in
San Jose, San Francisco and elsewhere. Only the name and some of the functions
will change.

The Department's Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services now handles
requests such as green cards, visas and naturalization applications. Enforcement
functions will fall under two other bodies, also in the Homeland Security
Department: The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Bureau of
Customs and Border Protection.

For more information, visit the department's new Web site, www.immigration. gov,
or contact the customer service call center at (800) 375-5283.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 5, 2003 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Homeland security starts on local level, official says

BYLINE: By Sean Webby; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 461 words


Protecting Silicon Valley and the Bay Area from terrorists will mostly remain
the responsibility of local governments, law enforcement and the companies here,
said the man in charge of daily operations for the fledgling Department of
Homeland Security.

''Silicon Valley understands what is critical,'' said Deputy Secretary Gordon
England, who visited San Francisco on Tuesday as part of a tour of West Coast
ports and to meet business leaders and employees. ''Washington, D.C., is not
going to decide how we protect and defend every business and every government
and everything in America.''

Much of the security assessment, analysis and testing of area landmarks and tech
companies will probably be done at a local level, he said, and the new
department would be there to help.

''It's more what the citizens demand than what the Department of Homeland
Security demands,'' England said.

In his new job, England helps run a 170,000-person agency that includes the U.S.
Coast Guard, the Border Patrol and the Immigration and Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration (formerly the INS.) ''We will work throughout America to help
America defend America,'' said England.

England talked in general and guarded terms about his department's mission. The
deputy secretary said it would be ''inappropriate'' to talk about targets, such
as the technological and financial infrastructure of Silicon Valley.

He said the new department had not yet pinpointed weaknesses at potential terror
targets around the Bay Area and Silicon Valley.

After all, England said, the department has only been operating for a little
more than a month.

''We have accomplished a lot since 9/11,'' said England, ''but we have
accomplished very little compared to what has to be done.''

Yet England says that Silicon Valley and other technological centers in the
United States will play an important role for the department, which he said
would ''stimulate, encourage and awaken'' the tech companies and venture
capitalists of Silicon Valley to develop their latest technologies and
innovations.

''Under the military, we have great technology, great people -- an unbeatable
combination,'' said England. ''The same things needs to be true of the
Department of Homeland Security.''

England, who served on the Department of Defense's technology committee,
provided few specifics about technology that the department wanted. But he did
offer one example: devices used to inspect shipping containers.

He said more details would emerge after Charles McQueary, the undersecretary of
science and technology, visits Silicon Valley to hold business round-tables and
discuss the department's needs. England said he did not know when that would be.

Contact Sean Webby at swebby@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 5, 2003 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Change is in name only for century-old INS

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman and Edwin Garcia; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 516 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, the more than century-old federal
agency, ceased to exist officially last weekend, when it became part of the
Department of Homeland Security.

The old INS is now the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS).
Enforcement and border patrol are now under different divisions: the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Bureau of Customs and Border
Protection.

But the change with immigration services, at least for now, is only in name,
said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the BCIS district office in San Francisco,
the former INS office.

We asked Rummery to answer questions about the transition.

Q What happens to pending applications for citizenship, green cards and other
requests?

A The same thing happens to it this week as if you'd filed it last week. Same
people, same location, same fingerprinting sites, using the same forms. The
whole change is going to be transparent to people we serve.

Q Are there going to be new offices for the BCIS?

A We're not moving. We're going to put up the banners with the new name, BCIS,
soon, at the same locations in San Francisco and San Jose.

Q Will there be delays in processing applications as a result of the transition?

A This is a change that isn't change.

Despite the transition, the national customer service number for those with
pending applications is the same: (800) 375-5283, or for the hearing impaired,
(800) 767-1833. The new BCIS web site is www. immigration.gov.

Management of asylum cases will remain under the jurisdiction of headquarters in
Washington, D.C., Rummery said.

Q I was born in Vietnam, the son of a U.S. military serviceman. I came to the
United States in 1984 and want to know if I'm allowed to have a passport from
both countries.

A If you qualify for citizenship in two different countries, then you are
entitled to have two passports. But while here you will be recognized only as a
citizen of the United States, said Stuart Patt, a spokesman with the State
Department.

If you travel outside the United States, you can use either passport, but you
must use the American passport when you return, Patt said.

Q I came to the U.S. in November 2000 to join my husband. He is now a citizen,
and I'm a permanent resident. How long must I wait to apply for citizenship, and
at what point in the immigration process can I petition for my mother to come,
too?

A Legal permanent residents, such as yourself, cannot petition for their
parents. You must first become a citizen, said Katharine ''Katy'' Henrikson, an
attorney with Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto, a non-profit
organization.

You are eligible to apply for citizenship at the earliest of two dates,
Henrikson said. You could do so on your third anniversary as a legal resident,
as long as you were married to and living with your husband during that time,
and provided he was a citizen those three years. You could also apply for
citizenship after five years of legal residency, regardless of being married.

Send your questions to immigration@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 6, 2003 Thursday F1 EDITION

Return green card to owner by mailing it to S.J. office

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 332 words


Q While on a walk in my neighborhood, I found a permanent resident card issued
by the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, formerly the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. The card has a photo, name, birth date and an INS
number but nothing to indicate the person's address. Because this is an
important document, I'd like to see that it gets back to the man who lost it.

A The bureau won't release the man's address, so your only option is to send it
to the local office, said Sharon Rummery, bureau spokeswoman. She said when the
agency receives it, it will be sent to the owner.

Send the card along with a brief note stating where you found it to Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services, 1887 Monterey Road, San Jose, Calif.
95112.

The Feb. 24 Action Line had some information about our group, Los Medicos
Voladores, (Flying Doctors) that could be misinterpreted. As reported, we do
accept prescription medicines whether out of date or not. But we do so as a
convenience. If not suitable for our use, we dispose of them. Under no
circumstances does Los Medicos Voladores transport to Mexico or issue
out-of-date prescription medicines to patients.

Most of our medicines are donated by doctors from their own offices or from drug
companies. As indicated in your article, some come from individual donors.

Los Medicos Voladores has more than 500 members and normally has multiple
medical mission teams in Mexico every month.

Need help? Here is how to reach us:



 Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190



 E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com



 On the Web: www.mercurynews.com



 Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)



 Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 8, 2003 Saturday PS1 EDITION

Visa limits plan in limbo;
PROPOSAL WOULD PUT 30-DAY CAP ON TOURIST STAYS

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 441 words


The fate of a proposal that would shorten the length of U.S. tourist visits from
the current six months to 30 days remains officially uncertain, but a Bay Area
group that led a national campaign to reject it is claiming victory.

''I think the issue is dead,'' said Pradeep Bhatia, a San Mateo banker who led
an online petition that collected the signatures of 86,000 people who criticized
the plan.

Thousands of legal immigrants in the Bay Area, many of them high-tech workers
from India and China on H-1B visas, opposed the proposed rule change, claiming
that it would impose a hardship on their families who come to Silicon Valley on
extended visits.

''I'd like to believe that as a result of our efforts here in the Bay Area, it
changed a few minds,'' Bhatia said.

The National Association of Realtors and the tourism industry also opposed the
plan, worried that visa limits would hurt their livelihood. Florida Gov. Jeb
Bush, brother of President George W. Bush, criticized the plan.

Last year, the U.S. Department of Justice, which oversaw the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, proposed to restrict tourist visas to 30 days, in
response to criticism that the immigration agency mishandled the visas of
terrorists involved in the Sept. 11 attacks.

The rule change on tourist visas was among a number of pending regulations that
the Justice Department didn't have time to complete when the INS was dissolved
on Feb. 28, changed to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS)
and moved under the newly created Department of Homeland Security.

''This is part of the process of transition,'' said Bill Strassberger, a
spokesman for the new BCIS in Washington, D.C.

Strassberger declined to comment on the claim by opponents of the rule change
that the proposal has been withdrawn.

Although the Department of Justice will no longer pursue the rule change -- it
lost jurisdiction -- it doesn't mean that the homeland department will not,
Strassberger said. It will be up to the homeland department whether to resurrect
the proposal and make it a new rule under BCIS, he said.

A spokesman for the Homeland Security Department did not return a telephone
message.

It has been 11 months since the Bush administration proposed the change, but
supporters of the plan, who believe that it's an important security measure, are
skeptical of reports it has been withdrawn.

''It's hard to tell what it really means,'' said Jessica Vaughan, a senior
policy analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington, D.C., group
that supported the visa limit.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 8, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Proposal to shorten visas in limbo;
PLAN TO LIMIT TOURISTS' STAYS TO 30 DAYS WASN'T APPROVED BEFORE INS WAS
DISMANTLED

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 479 words


The fate of a proposal that would shorten the length of U.S. tourist visits from
the current six months to 30 days remains officially uncertain, but a Bay Area
group that led a national campaign to reject it is claiming victory.

''I think the issue is dead,'' said Pradeep Bhatia, a San Mateo banker who led
an online petition that collected the signatures of 86,000 people who criticized
the plan.

Thousands of legal immigrants in the Bay Area, many of them high-tech workers
from India and China on H-1B visas, opposed the proposed rule change, claiming
that it would impose a hardship on their families who come to Silicon Valley on
extended visits.

''I'd like to believe that as a result of our efforts here in the Bay Area, it
changed a few minds,'' Bhatia said.

The National Association of Realtors and the tourism industry also opposed the
plan, worried that visa limits would hurt their livelihood. Florida Gov. Jeb
Bush, brother of President George W. Bush, criticized the plan.

Last year, the U.S. Department of Justice, which oversaw the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, proposed to restrict tourist visas to 30 days, in
response to criticism that the immigration agency mishandled the visas of
terrorists involved in the Sept. 11 attacks.

The rule change on tourist visas was among a number of pending regulations that
the Justice Department didn't have time to complete when the INS was dissolved
on Feb. 28, changed to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS)
and moved under the newly created Department of Homeland Security.

''This is part of the process of transition,'' said Bill Strassberger, a
spokesman for the new BCIS in Washington, D.C.

Strassberger declined to comment on the claim by opponents of the rule change
that the proposal has been withdrawn.

Although the Department of Justice will no longer pursue the rule change -- it
lost jurisdiction -- it doesn't mean that DHS will not, Strassberger said. It
will be up to DHS whether to resurrect the proposal and make it a new rule under
BCIS, he said.

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security did not return a telephone
message.

It has been 11 months since the Bush administration proposed the change, but
supporters of the plan, who believe that it's an important security measure, are
skeptical of reports that it's been withdrawn.

''It's hard to tell what it really means,'' said Jessica Vaughan, a senior
policy analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington, D.C., group
that supported the visa limit.

Vaughan said CIS conducted a study that showed a majority of tourists to the
United States visit no more than 30 days.

''There's a small number of people who are insisting that their needs be met at
the expense of the need to improve security,'' Vaughan said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 10, 2003 Monday PS1 EDITION

U.S. won't allow citizenship both here and in Canada

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 340 words


Q My cousin is a naturalized U.S. citizen of Filipino origin. She immigrated
here from Canada. Can she apply for Canadian citizenship even though she has
been sworn in as a United States citizen?

A If your cousin applies for and is granted Canadian citizenship, she must
relinquish her United States citizenship, said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for
the Bureau of Customs and Immigration Enforcement (formerly the Immigration and
Naturalization Service). If she would like more information on this issue, she
may contact the bureau's San Jose office at 1887 Monterey Road.

Random House is recalling 360,000 children's board book sets because they have
snaps that can detach and pose a choking hazard.

The recalled boxed book sets have children's characters on the front of the box,
a colored plastic handle and plastic snaps. Titles are: ''Monsters to Go!,''
''Disney Princess -- Disney the Princess Collection 2,'' ''Disney's Winnie the
Pooh -- A Very Merry Christmas'' and ''Barbie -- My Barbie Fun Box.''

These sets were sold nationwide from August 2002 to January. Only books with
plastic -- not metal -- snaps are being recalled.

Consumers should cut off the box lid with the plastic snaps and throw the box
away. Send the lid with plastic snaps to Tri-State, in care of Anthony Armetta,
325 Rabro Drive, Hauppauge, N.Y. 11788 for a free replacement book set and
postage refund. For more information, call Random House at (800) 805-8534.

Need help? Here is how to reach us:



 Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190



 E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com



 On the Web: www.mercury news.com Then click on columnists and then click Action
Line.



 Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)



 Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 10, 2003 Monday MO1 EDITION

Immigrant not allowed double citizenship

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 320 words


My cousin is a naturalized U.S. citizen of Filipino origin. She immigrated here
from Canada. Can she apply for Canadian citizenship even though she has been
sworn in as a United States citizen?



N. Ledesma
San Jose If your cousin applies for and is granted Canadian citizenship, she
must relinquish her United States citizenship, said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman
for the Bureau of Customs and Immigration Enforcement (formerly the Immigration
and Naturalization Service). If she would like more information on this issue,
she may contact the bureau's San Jose office at 1887 Monterey Road.

Random House is recalling 360,000 children's board book sets because they have
snaps that can detach and pose a choking hazard.

The recalled boxed book sets have children's characters on the front of the box,
a colored plastic handle and plastic snaps. Titles are: ''Monsters to Go!,''
''Disney Princess -- Disney the Princess Collection 2,'' ''Disney's Winnie the
Pooh -- A Very Merry Christmas'' and ''Barbie -- My Barbie Fun Box.''

These sets were sold nationwide from August 2002 to January. Only books with
plastic -- not metal -- snaps are being recalled.

Consumers should cut off the box lid with the plastic snaps and throw the box
away. Send the lid with plastic snaps to Tri-State, in care of Anthony Armetta,
325 Rabro Drive, Hauppauge, N.Y. 11788 for a free replacement book set and
postage refund. For more information, call Random House at (800) 805-8534.

Need help? Here is how to reach us:



 Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190



 E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com



 On the Web: www.mercurynews.com



 Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)



 Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 11, 2003 Tuesday MO1 EDITION
                              Correction Appended

Bay Area Pakistanis resent registration rule

BYLINE: By Patrick May; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words


Ever since the United States added Pakistan to its list of mostly Muslim
countries whose nationals are required to register with the government,
Pakistanis from San Jose to New York City are discovering the home of the free
can be a very scary place.

The grapevine buzzes with tales of men 16 and older taken away in vans or
detained indefinitely by immigration authorities. Fears of mass deportations
mount as the March 21 deadline approaches. Hundreds of illegal visitors -- and
in some cases even naturalized U.S. citizens -- have sought asylum in eastern
Canada in a highly publicized, frantic rush of Pakistanis who have become
refugees overnight.

In contrast to scenes of panicky asylum-seekers clogging border crossings in the
Northeast, the West Coast has remained relatively quiet. But while Bay Area
Pakistanis and Pakistani-Americans are not fleeing to Canada, they are
increasingly anxious about their status in this country.

Law-abiding citizens of Pakistani origin are furious that fellow countrymen are
being viewed as possible terrorists and that they must register and be
questioned, finger-printed and photographed. The fact that their homeland has
been a key supporter in the war on terrorism only adds to their resentment.

Some fear that once illegal Pakistanis have either fled the United States or
risked staying without registering, the government will come after naturalized
citizens next.

''We've lived here and in Canada 30 of my 40 years of marriage, but I feel
scared for my children,'' said Mussarrat Aziz, whose husband, Khalid, teaches at
Stanford University.

''People in the know say Pakistanis like us who are American citizens are next
on the list to have to register. Have we learned nothing from interning the
Japanese during World War II?

''The day they make me register,'' she said, ''is the day I leave this
country.''

Immigration officials dismiss such fears, saying no one with proper paperwork
will be detained or deported.

''Citizens should not worry,'' said Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the Bureau
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ''Lawful permanent residents aren't
required to register. We might detain someone for a few hours to do a complete
background check to make sure they're not on the terrorist watch list. But
nobody is being summarily deported, and everyone has a chance to go before a
judge.''

The situation has been chaotic ever since officials added Pakistan to the list
of 24 other countries affected by the national security registration system,
passed by Congress in 1996 but put into effect after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. The government says the system helps track who's leaving and entering
the country, especially from regions of national security concern.

But just as hundreds of Pakistanis headed for the border in January, trying to
meet an original Feb. 21 deadline, Canada changed the way it dealt with refugees
applying for asylum. Some Pakistanis were bounced back into the United States --
and in some cases, detained and jailed.

There are several reasons why that phenomenon hasn't been echoed in the West.
Mohamed Shah, president of the Pakistan Association of the San Francisco Bay
Area, doesn't know of a single local Pakistani who has left for Canada. Shah
said asylum-seekers are primarily Pakistanis whose visas are out of status and
therefore face deportation if caught. ''We have more professionals here, and we
don't have the large illegal community they do in New York City.''

Statistics back up Shah's observation, and paint a portrait of two very
different populations:



 The Pakistani communities of the East Coast are much larger -- the 2000 Census
showed 71,488 people of Pakistani origin, including temporary residents, in the
Northeastern United States. The Bay Area is home to an estimated 8,000
Pakistanis.



 West Coast border towns don't have nearly as many refugee-assistance groups
active as northeast states.



 Anecdotal evidence suggests Bay Area Pakistanis, a third of whom live in Santa
Clara County, enjoy higher social standing and hold more professional positions
in business and academics than others around the country.

Randall Caudle, Santa Clara chapter chair of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, points out that the ''bulk of Bay Area Pakistanis are H-1B visa
holders, engineers and computer workers.'' He said other large Pakistani
communities, such as Dallas and Chicago, have more ''undocumented Pakistanis who
are taxi drivers or have other odd jobs.''

A perception that eastern Canada is more welcoming to refugees also helps
explain the rush to the northeast border. Statistically, both the number of
claims and the acceptance rates for asylum-seekers of all nationalities are
historically higher in eastern Canada than in Vancouver.

In 2002, 47 percent of all refugee claims were accepted in Canada. But the rate
in the Vancouver office was just 30 percent, with Toronto at 50 percent.

While this cross-country dichotomy plays out, Pakistan has reacted angrily to
its addition to the list. Foreign Minister Khursheed Kasuri met with senior U.S.
officials in Washington to ask that Pakistan be exempted in consideration for
its help in the war on terrorism. In January meetings with President Bush,
national security adviser Condoleezza Rice and others, Kasuri said any mass
deportation of Pakistanis would spawn deep resentment in his country and
possibly even destabilize the government. Federal officials agreed to extend the
deadline by a month.

Asad Hayauddin, spokesman for the Pakistan Embassy in Washington, said once
Pakistan was assured the system would eventually include all countries whose
nationals require a visa to visit the United States, the embassy began working
with immigration officials to ensure registration was as painless as possible.

''We have the largest number of people of all the target countries on the list,
with upwards of 14,000 affected,'' Hayauddin said. ''We have helped with the war
on terrorism, and on a governmental level, Pakistan is receiving kudos from the
United States; but on a people level, Pakistanis are seen as suspects, even
though not a single Pakistani has been involved, indicted or convicted of being
involved in the events of Sept. 11.''

The U.S. government acknowledges that while the process has been unpleasant for
some, it has aided the war on terrorism. Officials say registration has helped
net more than 330 individuals from felons to terrorists, including Al-Qaida
operatives. Of the 32,000 men who have registered so far, more than 3,000 face
deportation.

Aziz's husband, Khalid, a professor of petroleum engineering, said the spectacle
of fellow Pakistanis streaming toward Canada distresses him. ''They feel they
can be picked up at any time without access to the legal system and that's
tragic,'' he said. ''We thought we were friends of the United States and did all
we could to fight terrorism. Now we are treated like we are the enemy.''

Contact Patrick May at pmay@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2003 Wednesday



CORRECTION: In the same article, a Pakistan Embassy official was quoted as
saying that no Pakistanis were involved in the Sept. 11 terror attacks. The
nationality of Khalid Shaikh Mohammad, regarded by the U.S. government as the
chief planner of the attacks and the operations chief for Al-Qaida, is unclear.
News accounts say he was born to Pakistani parents in Kuwait and raised in
Kuwait, and carries Pakistani and Kuwaiti passports.
Photo captions Tuesday in the world report accompanying an article about
Pakistanis and Pakistani-Americans were unclear.Khalid and Mussarrat Aziz are
U.S. citizens.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 19, 2003 Wednesday

Judge orders 3 Peninsula immigration firms to shut down

BYLINE: By Edwin Garcia; Mercury News

LENGTH: 351 words


Three San Mateo County immigration consultant firms were shut down this week by
a judge's order for allegedly violating a state law that regulates such
businesses.

All three firms are alleged to have been operating without posting a $50,000
bond with the secretary of state, which is required of immigration consultants,
said Hallye Jordan, a spokeswoman for Attorney General Bill Lockyer.

The firms were ordered closed by Superior Court Judge Mark R. Forcum, acting on
a request for a temporary restraining order by Lockyer's office. The owners will
have an opportunity to obtain the bond before a future court hearing, Jordan
said.

The complaints were filed in San Mateo County Superior Court against the
following businesses and individuals:



 Huangs & Associates of Foster City; George Huang, Brian C. Huang, Karen T.
Huang and Helen M. Huang.



 Kelly Tax Service and Kelly Tax and Notary Service of San Mateo; Davis Vargas
and Jackelyn Vargas.



 Miranda & Associate and Miranda & Associates of South San Francisco; and Bessie
Miranda.

Contacted late Tuesday, Davis Vargas of Kelly Tax Service denied wrongdoing,
saying his firm does not do immigration consulting work. He said he suspects the
attorney general went after his firm because he inadvertently listed his tax
business in the immigration consultant section of the yellow pages. However, he
said he would seek the bond.

The owners of Miranda & Associates and the owners of Huangs and Associates could
not be reached for comment.

If found liable, the consultants could be subject to stiff penalties for
operating without a bond and would have to reimburse the state for its costs in
bringing the suit, Jordan said.

Immigration consultants specialize in helping immigrants fill out documents
needed to become a permanent resident or citizen, but they sometimes provide
legal advice, which is unlawful.

Anyone who believes he or she may be a victim of fraudulent consultants can call
the Attorney General's Office of Immigrant Assistance at (888) 587-0557.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 20, 2003 Thursday

Ashcroft gives FBI agents power to arrest people on immigration charges

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


The FBI on today intensified its effort to interview thousands of Iraqi-born
individuals living in the United States in an effort to uncover any potential
terrorists and to protect the rest from hate crimes.

Several thousand FBI agents were being diverted from regular duties to do the
interviews and man command posts at each of the bureau's 56 field offices to
gather intelligence and respond quickly to any terrorist threats. A national
command center was set up at FBI headquarters in Washington.

''We are bringing to bear the full weight of our resources, expertise, and
partnerships,'' said FBI Director Robert Mueller. ''We are running down every
lead, responding to every threat, coordinating with every partner, and doing our
utmost to keep terrorists from striking back.''

The FBI has new authority from Attorney General John Ashcroft to arrest people
on immigration charges if they are believed to post a wartime threat.

The order took effect Feb. 28, the last day the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and its enforcement laws fell under Justice Department jurisdiction. The
INS ceased to exist the next day, when it was folded into the Homeland Security
Department.

Ashcroft's decision, confirmed Wednesday by two law enforcement officials who
spoke on condition of anonymity, gives more than 11,000 FBI agents and several
thousand marshals new arrest powers. Previously, that authority was reserved for
INS agents, some Customs agents and 35 police officers in South Florida under a
program promoted by Ashcroft.

The FBI investigates major crimes and gathers domestic intelligence. The
Marshals Service mainly tracks down and transports fugitives.

The law enforcement officials described the move as crucial in the fight against
terrorism. Immigration charges frequently are used to initially detain suspected
terrorists or sympathizers while other charges are developed.

The officials said it makes little sense for the FBI to delay arresting
potential terrorists or spies while waiting for an immigration officer to show
up.

One Justice Department official said the powers would be used ''only in
appropriate situations, such as when the public safety requires prompt action.''

The Iraqis expected to be detained have been under surveillance by the FBI and
are believed to be sympathetic to President Saddam Hussein. Those who would be
detained are in violation of U.S. immigration laws, mostly because of expired
visas, the officials said.

With the opening stages of the U.S. war against Iraq under way, the FBI will
move to arrest the Iraqis rather then keeping them under surveillance. Officials
said the Iraqis, who are not known to pose any imminent or specific threat, are
living in Miami, Detroit, New York, Washington and possibly other cities.

The expansion of FBI authority comes as the bureau conducts voluntary interviews
with up to 50,000 Iraqis living in this country, both to identify potential
terrorists and spies and to provide assurances that any instances of hate crime
will be investigated vigorously.

FBI agents also have been holding public meetings with Muslim groups and have
said repeatedly the intent of the voluntary interviews is not to arrest people
for immigration violations such as an expired visa.

The latest Justice Department directive appears to directly contradict that
policy, said Dalia Hashad of the American Civil Liberties Union.

''This is clearly a community that is terrorized by and terrified of the
government,'' said Hashad, the ACLU's advocate for Arabs, Muslims and people
from South Asia. ''Every time this community extends a hand, it has been
slapped.''

The ACLU and Muslim groups have been highly critical of several government
antiterrorism efforts, including the forced registration of thousands of mostly
Muslim men and boys with U.S. immigration authorities.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 20, 2003 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Judge orders firms closed;
COMPANIES' WORK WITH IMMIGRANTS CITED BY STATE

BYLINE: By Edwin Garcia; Mercury News

SECTION: B; BRIEF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 351 words


Three San Mateo County immigration consultant firms were shut down this week by
a judge's order for allegedly violating a state law that regulates such
businesses.

All three firms are alleged to have been operating without posting a $50,000
bond with the secretary of state, which is required of immigration consultants,
said Hallye Jordan, a spokeswoman for Attorney General Bill Lockyer.

The firms were ordered closed by Superior Court Judge Mark R. Forcum, acting on
a request for a temporary restraining order by Lockyer's office. The owners will
have an opportunity to obtain the bond before a future court hearing, Jordan
said.

The complaints were filed in San Mateo County Superior Court against the
following businesses and individuals:



 Huangs & Associates of Foster City; George Huang, Brian C. Huang, Karen T.
Huang and Helen M. Huang.



 Kelly Tax Service and Kelly Tax and Notary Service of San Mateo; Davis Vargas
and Jackelyn Vargas.



 Miranda & Associate and Miranda & Associates of South San Francisco; and Bessie
Miranda.

Contacted late Tuesday, Davis Vargas of Kelly Tax Service denied wrongdoing,
saying his firm does not do immigration consulting work. He said he suspects the
attorney general went after his firm because he inadvertently listed his tax
business in the immigration consultant section of the Yellow Pages. However, he
said he would seek the bond.

The owners of Miranda & Associates and the owners of Huangs & Associates could
not be reached for comment.

If found liable, the consultants could be subject to stiff penalties for
operating without a bond and would have to reimburse the state for its costs in
bringing the suit, Jordan said.

Immigration consultants specialize in helping immigrants fill out documents
needed to become permanent residents or citizens, but they sometimes provide
legal advice, which is unlawful.

Anyone who believes he or she may be a victim of fraudulent consultants can call
the Attorney General's Office of Immigrant Assistance at (888) 587-0557.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 21, 2003 Friday MO1 EDITION

Iraqis visited in FBI probe;
CIVIL LIBERTIES GROUPS BRISTLE AT INITIATIVE

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: AA; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 402 words


Two FBI agents came knocking on Zahraldin Albedani's door Thursday, with
questions about security, terrorist acts and the horrific life he fled as a
political prisoner sentenced to death in Saddam Hussein's Iraq.

Albedani served them apple juice and pound cake at his San Jose apartment, and
while they ate, he told them his story.

''I have nothing to hide. We are ready to cooperate, to defend America,'' said
the Iraqi political refugee, one of thousands of Iraqis being questioned as part
of a nationwide, wartime security dragnet.

Civil liberties groups in the Bay Area and across the country denounced the FBI
initiative that began Thursday, an effort to find and detain Iraqis who are in
the United States unlawfully, without visas or expired travel documents.

''What is the FBI interested in here? Busting a few immigrants for technical
violations on their visas or cooperation that may result in helpful evidence?''
asked Robert Rubin, director of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights in San
Francisco. Rubin said the questioning could alienate Iraqis.

Immigrant and refugee advocates say some Iraqis found the experience
humiliating.

Ellen Dumesnil, a division director at Catholic Charities in San Jose, is
monitoring the interviews since her organization helped resettle many Iraqi
refugees like Albedani in the Bay Area after the Persian Gulf War.

''They want to cooperate, they want to help, but this whole thing creates a
layer of stress,'' she said. Albedani, however, said the half-hour meeting was
not disturbing. ''They were very kind,'' he said.

The FBI agents, a man and woman, first promised to help Albedani if he became a
victim of a hate crime. ''I felt they were sincere,'' he said.

The agents also asked questions about Albedani's life in Iraq, his feelings
about the war, and whether he has committed any crimes since coming here two
years ago.

''They told me that if I saw anyone trying to do something bad to America, a
person trying to commit a terrorist act, it's better to cooperate and contact
them,'' said Albedani, who was jailed and tortured in Iraq for campaigning
against Saddam Hussein's political party. He escaped to Jordan.

The 41-year-old father of three small children said he answered emphatically.
''I would still do that,'' he said. ''It's my duty because America did a lot for
us.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 22, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Iraqi immigrant interviews have been helpful, FBI says

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 494 words


The FBI has questioned 125 Iraqis in the Bay Area in the past two days and the
voluntary interviews have yielded ''positive intelligence,'' information that
may be useful to U.S. ground forces in Iraq, a government official said Friday.

The interviews of an undetermined number of Iraqis nationwide, part of wartime
security initiative, will continue in the next few days, said Special Agent
LaRae Quy, an FBI official in San Francisco.

''I know the ACLU is concerned,'' Quy said, responding to criticism by Bay Area
civil liberties groups that the dragnet unfairly singles out a group.

Friday, the American Civil Liberties Union announced a hotline -- (415) 285-1055
-- for Iraqis who are being questioned by the FBI, said Jayashri Srikantiah, a
staff attorney with the ACLU of Northern California.

''It's extremely important for the immigrant community to know that immigration
status does not equate with no legal rights,'' said Robert Rubin, director of
the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights in San Francisco, one of Bay Area groups
offering free legal advice.

Quy declined to discuss the nature of intelligence gathered by agents during
their interviews of recent refugees from Iraq and Iraqi-Americans. Only one
refused to be interviewed, she said.

Mountain View resident Hala Alshahwany, a 41-year-old chemical engineer, was
greeted by two FBI agents Thursday morning, before she drank her first cup of
coffee.

Alshahwany, an American citizen, said the visit was courteous and quick. She was
still in her pajamas and robe when she greeted the agents, whom she did not let
in.

''I was startled,'' she said Friday.

The agents wanted to know the whereabouts of her two brothers, one a physician,
the other a software engineer. Both are green-card holders, or permanent
residents, and emigrated from Iraq three years ago.

She declined to give the agents her brothers' addresses and phone numbers. But
after the interview, she called her brothers and they called the FBI agents.
Their interviews went without problems, she said.

''I've lived here long enough to know that I have rights. I said this is a
voluntary interview but they didn't tell me that,'' said Alshahwany, who
immigrated to the U.S. in 1979.

In recent weeks, the FBI met with various community groups to inform them that
agents will question Iraqis as part of a national security plan.

''No one should be shocked when we show up,'' Quy said.

For some Iraqi-Americans, including those who were not interviewed, the FBI
visits are a reminder of the repressive nation they fled.

Nazar Alquroaishi, 59, who owns a San Jose Internet business that sells
computers, was not interviewed by the FBI. Alquroaishi said agents are singling
out ''Iraqis, and to me that's a sad story. We hate Saddam and his Iraq because
he persecuted us. And we love this country because you can live the way you like
and speak out freely.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 29, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

PROTESTERS SING OUT;
PENINSULA GROUP RALLIES AGAINST NEW VISA POLICY FOR FOREIGNERS;
RAGING GRANNIES VOICE THEIR OPINIONS

BYLINE: By Matthai Chakko Kuruvila; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 460 words


The Raging Grannies continued their tour of protest sites Friday, as they sang
and picketed at the San Jose federal immigration office, where they decried the
forced registration of certain foreign citizens.

Singing songs such as ''America We Weep for Thee'' (sung to the tune of
''America the Beautiful'') and ''FBI is All Over Town'' (sung to the tune of
''Santa Claus is Coming to Town), these grandmothers from the Peninsula's
wealthiest towns came to deliver a series of messages.

''This is our way of protesting against the war, the current administration and
the lack of justice,'' said Maxine Eggerth, 84, a Palo Alto resident, one of
about a dozen grannies and 20 other protesters from cities such as Menlo Park
and Los Altos Hills.

The Grannies, who wore straw hats with flowers and buttons, deplore the fact
that immigrants from 25 mostly Muslim countries have been forced to register at
offices of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, which before
March 1 was the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Male visa holders older than 16 from Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan or
Kuwait who do not have green cards must go to BCIS offices by April 25 or risk
deportation. Registrants will be photographed, fingerprinted and interviewed.

Supporters say the measure is a matter of national security because the visa
program -- which allows visitors and immigrants to enter the country -- was a
flawed and vulnerable process before Sept. 11, 2001. All 19 Sept. 11 hijackers
came on some sort of visa, and three had expired visas at the time of the
attacks.

But critics say that the measure illogically ties nationality with terrorism,
forcing people, some of whom have been here for decades, to be treated like
criminals. Many of those whose visas have expired have been detained.

''They're being mistreated,'' said Ruth Chippendale, 73, also of Palo Alto.
''There's so much injustice.''

Chippendale said there's a reason the Raging Grannies want to highlight their
age.

''Through the years, it's been mainly the young kids, hippies,'' who go to
protest, she said. ''This is to show that there's another generation out there,
too.''

Nancy Crosby, 71, wore an American flag jacket because she wanted to show that
dissent is not anti-American. Crosby said it was the United States that has used
weapons of mass destruction in so many countries, from Agent Orange and napalm
in Vietnam to the atomic bomb in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. But that shouldn't be
the case, she said.

''We're Americans,'' said Crosby, a Cupertino resident whose ancestors fought in
the Revolutionary War. ''We fought against tyranny.''

For more information, go to www.immigration.gov

Contact Matthai Chakko Kuruvila at mkuruvila@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 29, 2003 Saturday MO1 EDITION

New federal agency swears in citizens;
AT CEREMONY IN L.A. ARENA IMMIGRANTS EXPRESS SUPPORT, GRATITUDE FOR U.S. TROOPS

BYLINE: By Gary Gentile; Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Thousands of immigrants from more than 100 countries pledged allegiance to the
United States on Friday.

The new citizens included 23 servicemen and women who received enthusiastic
applause from the crowd, which displayed its patriotism by waving small flags
and commenting in support of about America's war to oust Iraqi leader Saddam
Hussein.

''I don't know why they left him until now,'' said Khajik Haroian, 65, who came
to the United States from Baghdad six years ago.

''My feeling of gratitude to our troops is so deep,'' said Ann Claire Van Shaick
Pahlavi, who was born in Tehran. ''I feel such gratitude for their willingness
to fight for my freedom. If only for that I'm proud to come here today.''

In all, more than 7,500 immigrants were sworn in during the day's two mass
citizenship ceremonies at the Sports Arena, which temporarily served as a
federal court for the occasion.

It was the first mass swearing in of citizens of its size held under the new
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, a division of the Department of
Homeland Security. The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which used to
administer the program, ceased to exist March 1.

The oath was administered to the first group by U.S. District Court Judge Gary
Feess, who made special remarks for the military personnel who became citizens.

''Freedom comes with a price,'' Feess said. ''I salute them and their
willingness to sacrifice their individual objectives in the short run for the
long-term objectives of their country.''

Leroy Alveranga, an Army specialist, said he had no doubts about serving his new
country.

''It's all about what you promised to do, defend the Constitution of the United
States,'' said Alveranga, who was born in Jamaica. ''It's not about where you
are from, it's about where you live.''

Most of the new citizens came from Mexico, followed by the Philippines, Vietnam,
Korea and Iran.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    September 11, 2002 Wednesday PS1 EDITION

Extra screening to begin at ports;
CRITICS DENOUNCE ADDED SCRUTINY OF VISITORS FROM THE MIDDLE EAST

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 460 words


Immigration inspectors at undisclosed airports will begin today to fingerprint
and monitor thousands of visitors from the Middle East, as part of a nationwide
border security measure to counter terrorism.

It's unclear whether Bay Area airports or seaports will begin the extra
screening today or on Oct. 1, when all of the nation's ports of entry will be
required to comply.

Civil rights concerns

But Bay Area civil liberties groups, immigrant advocates and Muslim residents
this week stepped up their criticism of the measure, saying it would place an
undue amount of scrutiny on people from Arab and Islamic countries.

"All of us, regardless of our nationalities or religion, have been touched by
these events," Tofan Darya, 32, an Iranian student at Lincoln Law School in San
Jose, said of last year's terrorist attacks. "This happened to us, too, to our
home, to our community. But this policy makes you feel like an outsider."

Under the plan, students, tourists and business travelers from Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Sudan and Syria will be asked to report their whereabouts while in the
United States. Officials of the Justice Department said the screening criteria
are secret for security reasons.

Sara Campos, a staff attorney with the National Immigration Law Center in
Oakland, said the lack of details is troubling.

"This policy is going to affect certain individuals who come from certain
countries and people who fit a select criteria, and that criteria has not been
revealed to us," Campos said.

Some critics also questioned the effectiveness of the measure as a way to gather
intelligence on suspected terrorists.

"This is classic racial profiling," said Saad Ahmad, an immigration lawyer with
Ellahie law firm in San Jose. "The presumption is that you're a terrorist if you
come from one of those countries listed."

Others say the new policy should affect all travelers, regardless of their
country of origin.

"I understand that this is a matter of national security," said Mohammad
Imaduddin, a technical support engineer from San Jose. "But if they have to do
it, they should do it for everyone, not just Middle Eastern men."

'Long overdue'

Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director of Diversity Alliance for Sustainable America,
an Oakland group that advocates limits to immigration, agreed, but said the
current measure is a necessary step.

"It's very important that we understand that this nation is at war," Yeh said.
"This measure is long overdue."

Jorge Martinez, a spokesman for the Justice Department in Washington, D.C., said
it was a coincidence that the new rule took effect on the one-year anniversary
of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    September 11, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

U.S. to scrutinize some visitors;
BAY AREA GROUPS BLAST TRACKING OF MIDDLE EASTERNERS
AFTERMATH OF SEPT. 11

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 453 words


Immigration inspectors at undisclosed airports will begin today to fingerprint
and monitor thousands of visitors from the Middle East, as part of a nationwide
border security measure to counter terrorism.

It's unclear whether Bay Area airports or seaports will begin the extra
screening today or on Oct. 1, when all of the nation's ports of entry will be
required to comply.

But Bay Area civil liberties groups, immigrant advocates and Muslim residents
this week stepped up their criticism of the measure, saying it would place an
undue amount of scrutiny on people from Arab and Islamic countries.

"All of us, regardless of our nationalities or religion, have been touched by
these events," Tofan Darya, 32, an Iranian student at Lincoln Law School in San
Jose, said of last year's terrorist attacks. "This happened to us, too, to our
home, to our community. But this policy makes you feel like an outsider."

Under the plan, students, tourists and business travelers from Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Sudan and Syria will be asked to report their whereabouts while in the
United States. Officials of the Justice Department said the screening criteria
are secret for security reasons.

Sara Campos, a staff attorney with the National Immigration Law Center in
Oakland, said the lack of details is troubling.

"This policy is going to affect certain individuals who come from certain
countries and people who fit a select criteria, and that criteria has not been
revealed to us," Campos said.

Some critics also questioned the effectiveness of the measure as a way to gather
intelligence on suspected terrorists.

"This is classic racial profiling," said Saad Ahmad, an immigration lawyer with
Ellahie law firm in San Jose. "The presumption is that you're a terrorist if you
come from one of those countries listed."

Others say the new policy should affect all travelers, regardless of their
country of origin.

"I understand that this is a matter of national security," said Mohammad
Imaduddin, a technical support engineer from San Jose. "But if they have to do
it, they should do it for everyone, not just Middle Eastern men."

Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director of Diversity Alliance for Sustainable America,
an Oakland group that advocates limits to immigration, agreed, but said the
current measure is a necessary step.

"It's very important that we understand that this nation is at war," Yeh said.
"This measure is long overdue."

Jorge Martinez, a spokesman for the Justice Department in Washington, D.C., said
it was a coincidence that the new rule took effect on the one-year anniversary
of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    September 12, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Immigrants fear recent crackdown is shutting doors of opportunity;
VISA REFORMS AFFECT TOURISTS, STUDENTS AND WORKERS; ANXIETY AMONG MANY IN BAY
AREA RUNS HIGH

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman and Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1462 words


Andres Alvarado, a college student from Peru, postponed a trip to see his wife
and children in Lima.Upender Vuppalanchi is upset that his parents scrapped
plans to visit from Hyderabad, India.

And as Amjad T. Obeidat visits his native Jordan this month, he is worrying more
about getting back into the United States than about the violence in the Middle
East.

The three share an anxiety many immigrants in the United States are coping with
in response to the federal government's crackdown on foreign visitors as part of
the war on terrorism.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks by foreign terrorists who entered the United States
legally and lived here openly, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
announced several steps to gain greater control over foreigners, whether
tourists, students or business travelers.

Most visitors will be limited to 30-day stays. Business travelers will be
limited to six months. An estimated 100,000 people entering the country each
year -- mostly Muslim and Middle Eastern men -- will have to provide
fingerprints, photographs and details about their plans here. And the INS is
speeding the start-up of a vast Internet-based system for tracking foreign
students at thousands of schools and colleges.

No government agency is more besieged than the INS, which is being reshaped by
the aftermath of the terrorist attacks.

Before Sept. 11, the INS focused on improving service, said Richard Boswell, an
immigration law professor at the University of California's Hastings College of
the Law. That changed after the agency came under fire for embarrassing lapses
involving the visas of several of the hijackers.

"The discussion was focused on how to make it a better, more efficient, more
humane agency," Boswell said of the INS before the attacks. "That's gone. Now
we're talking about battening down the hatches. The theme is enforcement because
of the fears that terrorism comes from abroad."

Advocates for tighter borders say the tragedy of Sept. 11 has provided an
opportunity to establish strict immigration controls.

"We can't have a safe country while the borders are open," said Brenda Walker,
who heads a group in Berkeley called the Bay Area Coalition for Immigration
Reform. "It's craziness to say that's possible. The same border that allows a
Mexican agriculture worker would allow a terrorist in."

In the Bay Area, where one in three residents is foreign-born, anxieties over
what some call a new anti-immigrant chapter in American history run particularly
high.

"We're focusing on Muslim Americans right now, and I don't know what I'm going
to face when I come back into the U.S.," said Obeidat, 34, an engineer who works
in Santa Clara.

Pradeep Bhatia, who is originally from India and became a U.S. citizen this
year, said he understands the need for better security but said the extra
scrutiny of foreigners has gone too far.

"What has happened is we're shutting ourselves down," he said. "We're saying,
'Non-whites are categorized as foreigners.' I'm non-white, and I'm an American."

Schools face deadline

Educators have long known that a new method for tracking foreign students would
be put into place, but efforts to revamp the system gained new urgency after it
was learned that some of the hijackers came to the United States with student
visas.

Colleges are racing to meet a January deadline for entering information on
550,000 student-visa holders into an Internet-based database. All schools will
be required to use the system, known as the Student Exchange Visitor Information
System, or SEVIS, by 2003.

"It's taking loads of time," said Ted Goode, director of services for
international students and scholars at UC-Berkeley, which has about 7,000
foreign students, scholars and their family members. "But more importantly,
we're not even ready to test."

The extra scrutiny has made foreign students like Andres Alvarado uneasy.

Alvarado, 43, arrived in Silicon Valley from Peru two years ago on a temporary
visitor's visa to check out schools. He decided on Mission College in Santa
Clara and converted his visa to foreign-student status to attend school.

Under new INS rules, it would now be nearly impossible for visitors like
Alvarado to convert their tourist visas. People from abroad planning to study in
the United States can now receive student status only if they notify the INS of
their plans before entering the country.

Although the new rules do not apply to him, Alvarado decided to drop his plans
to visit his family in Lima, fearing he might not be allowed to re-enter. This
Christmas, his wife and two young children plan to visit him instead.

"I understand the U.S. government is worried after Sept. 11," Alvarado said.
"But the international student population in the U.S. is only a small part of
all immigration. I'm just a foreign student. I'm not a terrorist."

Visa limits

For many Bay Area immigrants, the most troubling INS change would limit tourist
visas to 30 days, rather than the current six months, a proposal that is
expected to take effect this fall.

Immigrants like Upender Vuppalanchi, a software engineer on an H1-B visa from
India, says the change would pose a hardship on their relatives who come to the
United States on extended visits.

Vuppalanchi's parents planned this fall to make their first visit to Silicon
Valley since their son moved here three years ago. They had expected to stay for
two or three months but canceled their plans after learning about the proposed
change. One month is not enough time when coming from so far away, Vuppalanchi
said.

"It takes a week to adjust to the time difference," he said. "I'm very desperate
to have them visit, and I wanted them to see how I'm doing here."

Refugees in limbo

For refugees, Sept. 11 caused lengthy bureaucratic delays, leaving tens of
thousands of refugees around the world, from Rwanda to Bosnia to Cambodia, stuck
in refugee camps. Their families across the United States and in the Bay Area
are waiting longer for them to arrive.

Although 70,000 refugees were authorized to enter the United States through
October, only 23,497 had come as of Aug. 31, according to the State Department.
At the same time last year, 61,157 had been admitted.

"We're talking about victims of terror, and it's really a tragedy that they're
viewed first as terrorists," said Jamal Alfakhouri, regional director of the
International Rescue Committee, an agency that brings refugees to Santa Clara
County.

Last year at this time, his office had resettled 200 refugees; this year only 44
have arrived.

The post-Sept. 11 climate also dashed the hopes of undocumented immigrants --
millions of whom were counting on Congress to pass legislation that would have
granted them legal status.

Maria Blanco, national senior counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, remembers a sense of optimism in the days before the attacks
surrounding discussions between Mexico and the United States about a
guest-worker program.

"There was just a feeling that a whole lot of things had come together and that
the discussion on legalization and policies had turned a corner," Blanco said.
"But it was clear to me, within hours of the attack, that the political
landscape on immigration had changed forever."

The most sweeping transformation -- splitting the INS in two, leaving its
service arm in the Justice Department but putting its enforcement arm in a
Department of Homeland Security -- is being debated in Congress.

"I know that it seems like there are all these changes happening with the
agency," said Sharon Rummery, an INS spokeswoman in San Francisco. "But really
when you come right down to it, the mission is the same."

Legacy of Sept. 11

Many immigrant advocates, however, believe the changes of the past year will
leave a lasting mark.

"The fear is that this cycle will leave permanent legislation and laws as its
legacy," Blanco said. "It's not just a shift in public opinion with a few
oddball initiatives. Structures are being put in place that will have long-term
impact on immigrant communities."

U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, a former immigration lawyer and one of the
leading congressional experts on immigration, does not believe that the United
States will soon shut the doors to immigration.

Immigrants, she said, are integral to the country's character and economy.

"If you have a Linus Torvalds, the Scandinavian inventor of the operating system
Linux, are you going to say, 'You can't come here?' " she said. "The group
picking lettuce from a farm in Salinas Valley has nothing to do with the
Al-Qaida network, and most people know that."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 29, 2002 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Missing immigration card, if returned, is still on file

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words


Q Three years ago I applied for a duplicate immigration card with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service because mine was stolen. I filled out an
application, enclosed pictures and paid the fee. I was told it should take about
three months to get the card. I forgot about it until a few months ago. What
should I do to get this document? A. Dao Cupertino

A Return to the San Jose INS office to see if the card has been returned, said
Sharon Rummery, INS spokeswoman. Rummery said if it was sent to a previous
address, the card would have been returned and should be on file, so you'll get
a replacement for free. However, if the records show the card was mailed and not
returned, you will need to fill out a new I-90 form because it's officially a
lost card.

Auto answers

Q I have an answer for the person who wanted to know how many 1965-69 and 1976
Porsche 912s were still registered. I have used a service I found advertised in
auto magazines. It is Automotive Information Clearinghouse, Box 1746, La Mesa,
Calif. 91944; (619) 447-7200. AIC charges $19 for information on how many
vehicles are left; $7 for what a vehicle is worth; and $7 for how fast it will
increase in value; or $29 for answers to all three questions. Glenn Swanson
Capitola

A A company official verifies the above facts. The spokesman said AIC not only
provides the number of registered vehicles but also tells customers how many
models can be proved to exist even if they're not registered in any state.

Need help? Here is how to reach us:

* Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190

* E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com

* On the Web: www.bayarea.com/

mld/bayarea/news/columnists/

action-line/

* Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)

* Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 3, 2002 Thursday

Former SF INS worker sentenced in immigration money scam

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO (AP)


A former San Francisco Immigration and Naturalization Service official was
sentenced in federal court Wednesday to six months in a halfway house for taking
money in exchange for citizenship application favors.

According to prosecutors, Ruben Banda, of Fremont, took unauthorized fee
payments from those seeking citizenship who thought Banda could expedite their
requests for a price.

One victim said Banda accepted a total of $950 in fees to transfer his alien
file so Banda could review it.

The INS actually has no such transfer fee, and Banda simply pocketed the cash.

Banda, once the Assistant District Director for the INS in San Francisco, was
first indicted in November 2001. He had been charged with one count of willfully
receiving supplements to his federal salary, two counts of making false
statements to the Inspector General for the Department of Justice, and one count
of obstruction.

A mistrial was declared after the jury deadlocked over the false statements and
obstruction charges.

U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton sentenced Banda to six months in the
halfway house, another six months of home detention and four years of probation.

He was also ordered to repay his eight victims $4,711.60.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       October 4, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

Davis, Simon put on a different face in Spanish ads

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words


In his latest campaign ad on Spanish-language television, Gov. Gray Davis
mingles with Latino college students as an announcer describes the governor as a
"best friend" to the children of immigrants.

You'll never see the ad on mainstream television. The ad focuses on a bill Davis
signed last year that allows some undocumented immigrants to pay the same
tuition as legal residents at state colleges, a law that isn't as popular with
the general public.

With the election a month away, Davis and his Republican challenger, Bill Simon,
have used the airwaves to play up issues particularly relevant to Latinos, an
increasingly influential segment of voters. By doing so, they're challenging a
popular premise of political campaigns: that all Californians share the same
quality-of-life issues, regardless of their race or ethnicity.

The candidates highlight cultural traits such as family values in a carefully
crafted way to win favor among the state's 11 million Latinos, multicultural
marketing experts and political analysts say.

"They're certainly getting good advice," said Isabel Valdes of Palo Alto, author
of the book "Marketing to American Latinos: A guide to the in-culture approach."
She added: "Showing respect, and respecting our values, is very, very
important."

Spanish-language ads, which a few years ago merely translated the English
versions, have come a long way in reaching Latinos, said Antonio Gonzalez,
president of the William C. Velasquez Institute, a Los Angeles non-partisan
organization that studies Latino political participation.

"I think we're at the beginning of this new conventional wisdom, and it's going
to develop more," he said.

In a Spanish-language radio ad, Simon says he has four children, a point he
doesn't make as prominently in English ads. The ad goes on to say, "Bill Simon
knows that family is the most precious thing life has to offer."

Simon makes pitch

Simon has aired two Spanish-language television ads: "Fulfill our Children's
Dreams," which criticizes Davis' education record, and "A Good Man," which
introduces the candidate to Latinos by stating, "Bill Simon is a man who has
given much to the community and to children."

His campaign's deputy press secretary, Jeannine Campos, said Simon is
emphasizing education and family to Latinos because they are two values he
personally espouses.

Both Simon and Davis appear "a little more civil and softer" in their
Spanish-language ads, said Barbara O'Connor, a professor at California State
University-Sacramento who directs the Institute for the Study of Politics and
Media.

In three ads, Davis features some of the state's most popular Latino politicians
-- Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante; Rep. Loretta Sanchez, D-Garden Grove; and former
Assembly Speaker Antonio Villaraigosa -- focusing on education, raising the
minimum wage and health care. Never mind that Bustamante and Davis, who appear
together on a commercial called "Best Friend," don't always see eye to eye.

Davis' record

"We're trying to remind voters of things the governor has already done over the
course of his administration, give them some of the facts to back up what
they're already feeling about the governor," Davis campaign spokesman Roger
Salazar said.

Latinos, more than 14 percent of the state's registered voters, have increased
their political clout in recent years. Their fierce lobbying helped persuade
Davis to sign legislation Monday that gives farmworkers more power in contract
negotiations.

But Latinos can be divided over controversial issues. That was the case this
week when Davis vetoed a measure that would have allowed some illegal immigrants
to apply for driver's licenses; internal campaign polls showed that Latino
support was mixed.

A current Davis ad shows Villaraigosa praising the governor for signing
legislation that will help immigrant children. A text at the bottom of the
screen states, "Economic help for immigrant college students." Nowhere does it
state the law is specifically for undocumented immigrants.

"Putting the word illegal in there could alienate even Latinos," said Bruce
Cain, director of the Institute of Governmental Studies at the University of
California-Berkeley. "Even in a Spanish ad, why court trouble if you don't have
to?"

Salazar said "undocumented" or "illegal" was too wordy for the 30 second spot.
To suggest otherwise, he said, means "you're probably reading too much into it."

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 4, 2002 Friday

Davis, Simon put on a different face in Spanish ads

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

LENGTH: 766 words


In his latest campaign ad on Spanish-language television, Gov. Gray Davis
mingles with Latino college students as an announcer describes the governor as a
"best friend" to the children of immigrants.

You'll never see the ad on mainstream television. The ad focuses on a bill Davis
signed last year that allows some undocumented immigrants to pay the same
tuition as legal residents at state colleges, a law that isn't as popular with
the general public.

With the election a month away, Davis and his Republican challenger, Bill Simon,
have used the airwaves to play up issues particularly relevant to Latinos, an
increasingly influential segment of voters. By doing so, they're challenging a
popular premise of political campaigns: that all Californians share the same
quality-of-life issues, regardless of their race or ethnicity.

The candidates highlight cultural traits such as family values in a carefully
crafted way to win favor among the state's 11 million Latinos, multicultural
marketing experts and political analysts say.

"They're certainly getting good advice," said Isabel Valdes of Palo Alto, author
of the book "Marketing to American Latinos: A guide to the in-culture approach."
She added: "Showing respect, and respecting our values, is very, very
important."

Spanish-language ads, which a few years ago merely translated the English
versions, have come a long way in reaching Latinos, said Antonio Gonzalez,
president of the William C. Velasquez Institute, a Los Angeles non-partisan
organization that studies Latino political participation.

"I think we're at the beginning of this new conventional wisdom, and it's going
to develop more," he said.

In a Spanish-language radio ad, Simon says he has four children, a point he
doesn't make as prominently in English ads. The ad goes on to say, "Bill Simon
knows that family is the most precious thing life has to offer."

Simon makes pitch

Simon has aired two Spanish-language television ads: "Fulfill our Children's
Dreams," which criticizes Davis' education record, and "A Good Man," which
introduces the candidate to Latinos by stating, "Bill Simon is a man who has
given much to the community and to children."

His campaign's deputy press secretary, Jeannine Campos, said Simon is
emphasizing education and family to Latinos because they are two values he
personally espouses.

Both Simon and Davis appear "a little more civil and softer" in their
Spanish-language ads, said Barbara O'Connor, a professor at California State
University-Sacramento who directs the Institute for the Study of Politics and
Media.

In three ads, Davis features some of the state's most popular Latino politicians
-- Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante; Rep. Loretta Sanchez, D-Garden Grove; and former
Assembly Speaker Antonio Villaraigosa -- focusing on education, raising the
minimum wage and health care. Never mind that Bustamante and Davis, who appear
together on a commercial called "Best Friend," don't always see eye to eye.

Davis' record

"We're trying to remind voters of things the governor has already done over the
course of his administration, give them some of the facts to back up what
they're already feeling about the governor," Davis campaign spokesman Roger
Salazar said.

Latinos, more than 14 percent of the state's registered voters, have increased
their political clout in recent years. Their fierce lobbying helped persuade
Davis to sign legislation Monday that gives farmworkers more power in contract
negotiations.

But Latinos can be divided over controversial issues. That was the case this
week when Davis vetoed a measure that would have allowed some illegal immigrants
to apply for driver's licenses; internal campaign polls showed that Latino
support was mixed.

A current Davis ad shows Villaraigosa praising the governor for signing
legislation that will help immigrant children. A text at the bottom of the
screen states, "Economic help for immigrant college students." Nowhere does it
state the law is specifically for undocumented immigrants.

"Putting the word illegal in there could alienate even Latinos," said Bruce
Cain, director of the Institute of Governmental Studies at the University of
California-Berkeley. "Even in a Spanish ad, why court trouble if you don't have
to?"

Salazar said "undocumented" or "illegal" was too wordy for the 30 second spot.
To suggest otherwise, he said, means "you're probably reading too much into it."

The ads can be viewed at: www.gray-davis.com and www.simonforgovernor.com.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 23, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Setting the record straight

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 297 words


The Associated Press dismissed a reporter, Christopher Newton, last month after
receiving inquiries about one of his articles. Before dismissing him, the AP
reported, the news service asked him about experts he quoted in other articles;
Newton said the people were real and accurately quoted, but was "unwilling or
unable to provide proof of their authenticity." The AP identified a total of 40
articles that contained quotations from people who could not be located.

The Mercury News, which is a member of the Associated Press, published five of
those articles:

* An article Aug. 4, 2001, about Vice President Dick Cheney refusing to give
Congress documents on the administration's energy policy, quoted George
Brownstein, identified as a political analyst and Nixon author. The AP could not
locate that person.

* An article July 17, about mounting delays in granting citizenship to
immigrants, quoted Irma Gonzales, identified as an immigration researcher at the
University of Chicago. The AP could not locate that person.

* An article Aug. 1, about a federal judge's ruling that suspected Taliban
fighters held in Cuba have no right to U.S. court hearings, quoted Justin
Willard, identified as a constitutional lawyer. The AP could not locate that
person.

* An article Aug. 13, about the Justice Department's decision to start
fingerprinting foreign visitors, quoted Carl Baron, identified as an immigration
lawyer and University of Texas researcher. The AP could not locate that person.

* An article Sept. 9, about national crime statistics, quoted Ralph Myers,
identified as a criminologist at Stanford University, and Bruce Fenmore,
identified as a statistician at the Institute for Crime and Punishment. The AP
could not locate the men or the institute.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 24, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Woman becomes citizen despite robbery

BYLINE: the Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 166 words


A Filipina immigrant on her way to becoming a U.S. citizen Wednesday morning at
a ceremony in downtown San Jose nearly lost her chance after a man pushed into
her and stole her purse with all her identification and citizenship documents
inside, police said.

Cepriana Ghebre, 41, was walking to the Civic Auditorium for a citizenship
ceremony shortly before 7:30 a.m. when a man grabbed her purse and pushed her
against a street pole, injuring her head and shoulder, said San Jose police
spokesman Joseph Deras.

All of Ghebre's necessary documents for the ceremony were inside her stolen
purse, but police vouched to Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
that she had just been robbed, Deras said.

She was allowed to participate in the ceremony and became a citizen minutes
after the robbery. Police later found her purse, documents intact.

"I was worried about my citizenship," Ghebre told a television reporter. "In the
end, it's all worth it. I'm an American citizen."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 30, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Beware of backlog at INS of address change forms

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 524 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service continues to be inundated by
change-of-address forms. The agency received about 500,000 requests this year as
of Oct. 8.

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the INS in Washington, D.C., said the agency
has hired more people and hopes to clear the backlog by the end of the year. If
you are not sure the INS has received your address change, Strassberger said,
you can send in another form.

If you have a pending application with the INS, here is what you can do:

If you're in the process of applying for naturalization, call (800) 375-5283.
All others should write to your local office. Include your name, old and new
address, alien or case number, and any other appropriate information. Make sure
you send it by certified mail and keep a copy for your records.

H-1 visas: A law awaiting approval by President Bush would allow those with H-1
visas who have applied for labor certifications to extend their stay beyond the
six-year limit. To qualify, your labor certification application must have been
pending for at least a year. The law would apply even if you have since changed
your status or have left the country.

Visa delays: People applying for non-immigrant visas should expect delays of up
to eight weeks. The State Department recently announced that those visas will
take longer to process because applications are subject to additional scrutiny
as part of security measures following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Student registration: Are you a foreign student who has been asked to report to
the INS for a "special registration interview" by today?

You don't have to, according to an INS press release.

If you were admitted into the United States without being fingerprinted,
photographed, or interviewed by the INS, you are not required to follow any
additional measures before leaving the United States.

The "special registration" interviews are part of new security measures that
went into effect in September. They apply to visitors from Iran, Iraq, Libya,
Sudan, Syria and others deemed by law enforcement officials to be "of interest."
These visitors are fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed by the INS upon
arrival. They also are required to follow other special registration procedures
during their stay and before they leave the United States.

Newly married

Q I recently got married. My husband, who is undocumented, has been here six
years. Is there anything we can do to have him stay here legally?

A As the spouse of an American citizen, your husband qualifies to become a legal
immigrant. In order to do so, he must leave the country and re-enter legally.

There's also a catch: People who have lived here for a year or longer without
legal documentation could be barred from re-entering the country for 10 years.

Congress this year considered reinstating a program known as 245(i) that would
have allowed people to pay a $1,000 fee to apply for permanent residency without
having to leave the country. But the legislation stalled and its future is
uncertain.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               March 1, 2003 Saturday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

HOTLINE ADVISES IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 575 words


In a long, narrow room with one window, Samina Faheem operates the country's
only volunteer hotline designed to answer questions about a new national
security program that requires men and boys from certain countries to register
with the federal government.

"AMA-PADF hotline, may I help you?" Faheem said in the cramped Newark office of
the American Muslim Alliance and the Pakistan American Democratic Forum, two Bay
Area-based national groups that set up the hotline about a month ago.

The hotline is a response from immigrant communities across the Bay Area to the
program that requires certain people on temporary visas to register with the
former Immigration and Naturalization Service -- which today was dissolved and
absorbed into the Department of Homeland Security.

The security measure, a response to the attacks of Sept. 11, is designed to
allow the government to monitor the movement of foreign visitors in the United
States.

Faheem, national coordinator for the Muslim alliance, is one of several
volunteers who staff the line, which is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. Originally fielding as many as 100 calls a day from Pakistanis and Muslims
around the country, volunteers have gotten fewer calls, she said Friday, since
the reporting deadline was extended to March 21 for visitors from Pakistan and
Saudi Arabia.

Some callers have questions about the requirements for special registration.
Others want to find a lawyer. Several needed bail because they or loved ones had
been detained.

"People are fearful and panicky," Faheem said.

Under the new regulations, visitors from 25 countries from Asia, the Middle East
and Africa must register. Government officials and some groups in favor of
restricting immigration believe the special registration is a necessary measure
to take control of the country's border security.

Since the first deadline in December, immigrant advocacy and civil liberties
groups in the Bay Area have conducted a number of legal clinics for people
required to register. The Newark hotline was set up Jan. 26 and will continue
operating for as long as a year after the March 21 deadline.

"The response has been overwhelming," said Agha Saeed, chairman of Muslim
alliance. "The need was for people to get immediate help and advice. We thought
the best way is a hotline."

Faheem says she has heard from people across the country who hold valid visas
but have nonetheless been detained. She recently found an attorney for a foreign
student from Houston who has been in detention since Jan. 29. Another Pakistani
who holds an H-1B visa was denied re-entry into the United States after visiting
a brother in Canada.

"It's like being on parole from prison. They're treating people who haven't done
anything like criminals," Saeed said.

Immigration lawyers have been overwhelmed by the number of calls about special
registration, said Ivy Lee, a staff attorney with the Asian Pacific Islanders
Legal Outreach in San Francisco.

"The hotline doesn't replace a face-to-face consultation with a lawyer, but it's
still a good idea because not everyone can attend a legal clinic," Lee said.

Heba Nimr, an attorney with INS Watch-La Raza Centro Legal, a San Francisco
group that monitors enforcement, said the hotline is a good resource for people
who need the information the most.

"Special registration is a big system," Nimr said. "This is a good toolfor
dealing with it."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
If you have questions about the special registration process, you can call the
toll-free hotline at (866) 815-7233. For more information on the Department of
Homeland Security, visit www.dhs.gov.
ABOUT THE PROGRAM
Under a new federal security program, men and boys 16 and older from certain
countries who are not permanent U.S. residents have to register with the federal
government. Diplomats, permanent residents, refugees and those who sought asylum
in the United States do not need to register. Here are the requirements:
Visitors from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia must register by March 21.
Visitors from Egypt, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Kuwait and Jordan must register by
April 25.
Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Samina Faheem, above, is one of the volunteers who answer questions about a
program that requires some male visitors to register with the U.S. government.
4 Also Ran: page 1B Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               March 1, 2003 Saturday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

HOTLINE ADVISES IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 575 words


In a long, narrow room with one window, Samina Faheem operates the country's
only volunteer hotline designed to answer questions about a new national
security program that requires men and boys from certain countries to register
with the federal government.

"AMA-PADF hotline, may I help you?" Faheem said in the cramped Newark office of
the American Muslim Alliance and the Pakistan American Democratic Forum, two Bay
Area-based national groups that set up the hotline about a month ago.

The hotline is a response from immigrant communities across the Bay Area to the
program that requires certain people on temporary visas to register with the
former Immigration and Naturalization Service -- which today was dissolved and
absorbed into the Department of Homeland Security.

The security measure, a response to the attacks of Sept. 11, is designed to
allow the government to monitor the movement of foreign visitors in the United
States.

Faheem, national coordinator for the Muslim alliance, is one of several
volunteers who staff the line, which is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. Originally fielding as many as 100 calls a day from Pakistanis and Muslims
around the country, volunteers have gotten fewer calls, she said Friday, since
the reporting deadline was extended to March 21 for visitors from Pakistan and
Saudi Arabia.

Some callers have questions about the requirements for special registration.
Others want to find a lawyer. Several needed bail because they or loved ones had
been detained.

"People are fearful and panicky," Faheem said.

Under the new regulations, visitors from 25 countries from Asia, the Middle East
and Africa must register. Government officials and some groups in favor of
restricting immigration believe the special registration is a necessary measure
to take control of the country's border security.

Since the first deadline in December, immigrant advocacy and civil liberties
groups in the Bay Area have conducted a number of legal clinics for people
required to register. The Newark hotline was set up Jan. 26 and will continue
operating for as long as a year after the March 21 deadline.

"The response has been overwhelming," said Agha Saeed, chairman of Muslim
alliance. "The need was for people to get immediate help and advice. We thought
the best way is a hotline."

Faheem says she has heard from people across the country who hold valid visas
but have nonetheless been detained. She recently found an attorney for a foreign
student from Houston who has been in detention since Jan. 29. Another Pakistani
who holds an H-1B visa was denied re-entry into the United States after visiting
a brother in Canada.

"It's like being on parole from prison. They're treating people who haven't done
anything like criminals," Saeed said.

Immigration lawyers have been overwhelmed by the number of calls about special
registration, said Ivy Lee, a staff attorney with the Asian Pacific Islanders
Legal Outreach in San Francisco.

"The hotline doesn't replace a face-to-face consultation with a lawyer, but it's
still a good idea because not everyone can attend a legal clinic," Lee said.

Heba Nimr, an attorney with INS Watch-La Raza Centro Legal, a San Francisco
group that monitors enforcement, said the hotline is a good resource for people
who need the information the most.

"Special registration is a big system," Nimr said. "This is a good toolfor
dealing with it."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
If you have questions about the special registration process, you can call the
toll-free hotline at (866) 815-7233. For more information on the Department of
Homeland Security, visit www.dhs.gov.
ABOUT THE PROGRAM
Under a new federal security program, men and boys 16 and older from certain
countries who are not permanent U.S. residents have to register with the federal
government. Diplomats, permanent residents, refugees and those who sought asylum
in the United States do not need to register. Here are the requirements:
Visitors from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia must register by March 21.
Visitors from Egypt, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Kuwait and Jordan must register by
April 25.
Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Samina Faheem, above, is one of the volunteers who answer questions about a
program that requires some male visitors to register with the U.S. government.
4 Also Ran: page 1B Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 3, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION AGENCY CHANGES ITS NAME

BYLINE: THE MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 149 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is no more -- but those who need its
services in the Bay Area should find things much the same.

The former agency, which became part of the new Homeland Security Department at
midnight Friday, will keep its same phone numbers, hours, employees and files in
San Jose, San Francisco and elsewhere. Only the name and some of the functions
will change.

The Department's Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services now handles
requests such as green cards, visas and naturalization applications. Enforcement
functions will fall under two other bodies, also in the Homeland Security
Department: The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Bureau of
Customs and Border Protection.

For more information, visit the department's new Web site, www.immigration.
gov, or contact the customer service call center at (800) 375-5283.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 5, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOMELAND SECURITY STARTS ON LOCAL LEVEL, OFFICIAL SAYS

BYLINE: SEAN WEBBY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 451 words


Protecting Silicon Valley and the Bay Area from terrorists will mostly remain
the responsibility of local governments, law enforcement and the companies here,
said the man in charge of daily operations for the fledgling Department of
Homeland Security.

"Silicon Valley understands what is critical," said Deputy Secretary Gordon
England, who visited San Francisco on Tuesday as part of a tour of West Coast
ports and to meet business leaders and employees. "Washington, D.C., is not
going to decide how we protect and defend every business and every government
and everything in America."

Much of the security assessment, analysis and testing of area landmarks and tech
companies will probably be done at a local level, he said, and the new
department would be there to help.

"It's more what the citizens demand than what the Department of Homeland
Security demands," England said.

In his new job, England helps run a 170,000-person agency that includes the U.S.
Coast Guard, the Border Patrol and the Immigration and Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration (formerly the INS.) "We will work throughout America to help America
defend America," said England.

England talked in general and guarded terms about his department's mission. The
deputy secretary said it would be "inappropriate" to talk about targets, such as
the technological and financial infrastructure of Silicon Valley.

He said the new department had not yet pinpointed weaknesses at potential terror
targets around the Bay Area and Silicon Valley.

After all, England said, the department has only been operating for a little
more than a month.

"We have accomplished a lot since 9/11," said England, "but we haveaccomplished
very little compared to what has to be done."

Yet England says that Silicon Valley and other technological centers in the
United States will play an important role for the department, which he said
would "stimulate, encourage and awaken" the tech companies and venture
capitalists of Silicon Valley to develop their latest technologies and
innovations.

"Under the military, we have great technology, great people -- an unbeatable
combination," said England. "The same things needs to be true of the Department
of Homeland Security."

England, who served on the Department of Defense's technology committee,
provided few specifics about technology that the department wanted. But he did
offer one example: devices used to inspect shipping containers.

He said more details would emerge after Charles McQueary, the undersecretary of
science and technology, visits Silicon Valley to hold business round-tables and
discuss the department's needs. England said he did not know when that would be.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 5, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOMELAND SECURITY STARTS ON LOCAL LEVEL, OFFICIAL SAYS

BYLINE: SEAN WEBBY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 451 words


Protecting Silicon Valley and the Bay Area from terrorists will mostly remain
the responsibility of local governments, law enforcement and the companies here,
said the man in charge of daily operations for the fledgling Department of
Homeland Security.

"Silicon Valley understands what is critical," said Deputy Secretary Gordon
England, who visited San Francisco on Tuesday as part of a tour of West Coast
ports and to meet business leaders and employees. "Washington, D.C., is not
going to decide how we protect and defend every business and every government
and everything in America."

Much of the security assessment, analysis and testing of area landmarks and tech
companies will probably be done at a local level, he said, and the new
department would be there to help.

"It's more what the citizens demand than what the Department of Homeland
Security demands," England said.

In his new job, England helps run a 170,000-person agency that includes the U.S.
Coast Guard, the Border Patrol and the Immigration and Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration (formerly the INS.) "We will work throughout America to help America
defend America," said England.

England talked in general and guarded terms about his department's mission. The
deputy secretary said it would be "inappropriate" to talk about targets, such as
the technological and financial infrastructure of Silicon Valley.

He said the new department had not yet pinpointed weaknesses at potential terror
targets around the Bay Area and Silicon Valley.

After all, England said, the department has only been operating for a little
more than a month.

"We have accomplished a lot since 9/11," said England, "but we haveaccomplished
very little compared to what has to be done."

Yet England says that Silicon Valley and other technological centers in the
United States will play an important role for the department, which he said
would "stimulate, encourage and awaken" the tech companies and venture
capitalists of Silicon Valley to develop their latest technologies and
innovations.

"Under the military, we have great technology, great people -- an unbeatable
combination," said England. "The same things needs to be true of the Department
of Homeland Security."

England, who served on the Department of Defense's technology committee,
provided few specifics about technology that the department wanted. But he did
offer one example: devices used to inspect shipping containers.

He said more details would emerge after Charles McQueary, the undersecretary of
science and technology, visits Silicon Valley to hold business round-tables and
discuss the department's needs. England said he did not know when that would be.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 5, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHANGE IS IN NAME ONLY FOR CENTURY-OLD INS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 517 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, the more than century-old federal
agency, ceased to exist officially last weekend, when it became part of the
Department of Homeland Security.

The old INS is now the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS).
Enforcement and border patrol are now under different divisions: the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Bureau of Customs and Border
Protection.

But the change with immigration services, at least for now, is only in name,
said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the BCIS district office in San Francisco,
the former INS office.

We asked Rummery to answer questions about the transition.

Q
What happens to pending applications for citizenship, green cards and other
requests?

A
The same thing happens to it this week as if you'd filed it last week.
Samepeople, same location, same fingerprinting sites, using the same forms. The
whole change is going to be transparent to people we serve.

Q
Are there going to be new offices for the BCIS?

A
We're not moving. We're going to put up the banners with the new name, BCIS,
soon, at the same locations in San Francisco and San Jose.

Q
Will there be delays in processing applications as a result of the transition?

A
This is a change that isn't change.

Despite the transition, the national customer service number for those with
pending applications is the same: (800) 375-5283, or for the hearing impaired,
(800) 767-1833. The new BCIS web site is www.
immigration.gov.

Management of asylum cases will remain under the jurisdiction of headquarters in
Washington, D.C., Rummery said.

Dual passports

Q
I was born in Vietnam, the son of a U.S. military serviceman. I came to the
United States in 1984 and want to know if I'm allowed to have a passport from
both countries.
Charlie
A
If you qualify for citizenship in two different countries, then you are entitled
to have two passports. But while here you will be recognized only as a citizen
of the United States, said Stuart Patt, a spokesman with the State Department.

If you travel outside the United States, you can use either passport, but you
must use the American passport when you return, Patt said.

Q
I came to the U.S. in November 2000 to join my husband. He is now a citizen, and
I'm a permanent resident. How long must I wait to apply for citizenship, and at
what point in the immigration process can I petition for my mother to come, too?

Rosalyn
A
Legal permanent residents, such as yourself, cannot petition for their parents.
You must first become a citizen, said Katharine "Katy" Henrikson, an attorney
with Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto, a non-profit organization.

You are eligible to apply for citizenship at the earliest of two dates,
Henrikson said. You could do so on your third anniversary as a legal resident,
as long as you were married to and living with your husband during that time,
and provided he was a citizen those three years. You could also apply for
citizenship after five years of legal residency, regardless of being married.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 6, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INTERIM DIRECTOR NAMED AT IMMIGRATION OFFICE

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 145 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


David Still, a career immigration service official, has been named interim
director of the San Francisco office of the new Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services, the former INS office, which serves 49 northern and
central California counties.

The district office oversees the San Jose sub-office of the immigration agency.

Still, 51, of San Francisco, joined the INS as an inspector in Calexico in 1977
after graduating from California Polytechnic State University-San Luis Obispo.
He moved to the San Francisco district office in 1981, serving in various
positions including acting district director.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service was recently split into two
functions, immigration services and enforcement, under the new Department of
Homeland Security, and as of March 1, became the Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Valley Roundup
News From Your Community

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 6, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RETURN GREEN CARD TO OWNER BY MAILING IT TO S.J. OFFICE

BYLINE: ANDY BRUNO column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 263 words


Q
While on a walk in my neighborhood, I found a permanent resident card issued by
the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, formerly the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The card has a photo, name, birth date and an INS number
but nothing to indicate the person's address. Because this is an important
document, I'd like to see that it gets back to the man who lost it.

Doug DeFrees
San Jose
A
The bureau won't release the man's address, so your only option is to send it to
the local office, said Sharon Rummery, bureau spokeswoman. She said when the
agency receives it, it will be sent to the owner.

Send the card along with a brief note stating where you found it to Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services, 1887 Monterey Road, San Jose, Calif.
95112.

Reaction: medicine

The Feb. 24 Action Line had some information about our group, Los Medicos
Voladores, (Flying Doctors) that could be misinterpreted. As reported, we do
accept prescription medicines whether out of date or not. But we do so as a
convenience. If not suitable for our use, we dispose of them. Under no
circumstances does Los Medicos Voladores transport to Mexico or issue
out-of-date prescription medicines to patients.

Most of our medicines are donated by doctors from their own offices or from drug
companies. As indicated in your article, some come from individual donors.

Los Medicos Voladores has more than 500 members and normally has multiple
medical mission teams in Mexico every month.

Don Wolf, chairman
Board of Directors
Los Medicos Voladores

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Action Line

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 8, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPOSAL TO SHORTEN TOURIST VISITS IN LIMBO

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 426 words


The fate of a proposal that would shorten the length of U.S. tourist visits from
the current six months to 30 days remains officially uncertain, but a Bay Area
group that led a national campaign to reject it is claiming victory.

"I think the issue is dead," said Pradeep Bhatia, a San Mateo banker who led an
online petition that collected the signatures of 86,000 people who criticized
the plan.

Thousands of legal immigrants in the Bay Area, many of them high-tech workers
from India and China on H-1B visas, opposed the proposed rule change, claiming
that it would impose a hardship on their families who come to Silicon Valley on
extended visits.

"I'd like to believe that as a result of our efforts here in the Bay Area, it
changed a few minds," Bhatia said.

The National Association of Realtors and the tourism industry also opposed the
plan, worried that visa limits would hurt their livelihood. Florida Gov. Jeb
Bush, brother of President George W. Bush, criticized the plan.

Last year, the U.S. Department of Justice, which oversaw the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, proposed to restrict tourist visas to 30 days, in
response to criticism that the immigration agency mishandled the visas of
terrorists involved in the Sept. 11 attacks.

The rule change on tourist visas was among a number of pending regulations that
the Justice Department didn't have time to complete when the INS was dissolved
on Feb. 28, changed to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS)
and moved under the newly created Department of Homeland Security.

"This is part of the process of transition," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman
for the new BCIS in Washington, D.C.

Strassberger declined to comment on the claim by opponents of the rule change
that the proposal has been withdrawn.

Although the Department of Justice will no longer pursue the rule change -- it
lost jurisdiction -- it doesn't mean that DHS will not, Strassberger said. It
will be up to DHS whether to resurrect the proposal and make it a new rule under
BCIS, he said.

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security did not return a telephone
message.

It has been 11 months since the Bush administration proposed the change,but
supporters of the plan, who believe that it's an important security measure, are
skeptical of reports that it's been withdrawn.

"It's hard to tell what it really means," said Jessica Vaughan, a senior policy
analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington, D.C., group that
supported the visa limit.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 8, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPOSAL TO SHORTEN TOURIST VISITS IN LIMBO

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 426 words


The fate of a proposal that would shorten the length of U.S. tourist visits from
the current six months to 30 days remains officially uncertain, but a Bay Area
group that led a national campaign to reject it is claiming victory.

"I think the issue is dead," said Pradeep Bhatia, a San Mateo banker who led an
online petition that collected the signatures of 86,000 people who criticized
the plan.

Thousands of legal immigrants in the Bay Area, many of them high-tech workers
from India and China on H-1B visas, opposed the proposed rule change, claiming
that it would impose a hardship on their families who come to Silicon Valley on
extended visits.

"I'd like to believe that as a result of our efforts here in the Bay Area, it
changed a few minds," Bhatia said.

The National Association of Realtors and the tourism industry also opposed the
plan, worried that visa limits would hurt their livelihood. Florida Gov. Jeb
Bush, brother of President George W. Bush, criticized the plan.

Last year, the U.S. Department of Justice, which oversaw the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, proposed to restrict tourist visas to 30 days, in
response to criticism that the immigration agency mishandled the visas of
terrorists involved in the Sept. 11 attacks.

The rule change on tourist visas was among a number of pending regulations that
the Justice Department didn't have time to complete when the INS was dissolved
on Feb. 28, changed to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS)
and moved under the newly created Department of Homeland Security.

"This is part of the process of transition," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman
for the new BCIS in Washington, D.C.

Strassberger declined to comment on the claim by opponents of the rule change
that the proposal has been withdrawn.

Although the Department of Justice will no longer pursue the rule change -- it
lost jurisdiction -- it doesn't mean that DHS will not, Strassberger said. It
will be up to DHS whether to resurrect the proposal and make it a new rule under
BCIS, he said.

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security did not return a telephone
message.

It has been 11 months since the Bush administration proposed the change,but
supporters of the plan, who believe that it's an important security measure, are
skeptical of reports that it's been withdrawn.

"It's hard to tell what it really means," said Jessica Vaughan, a senior policy
analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington, D.C., group that
supported the visa limit.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 8, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPOSAL TO SHORTEN TOURIST VISITS IN LIMBO

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 426 words


The fate of a proposal that would shorten the length of U.S. tourist visits from
the current six months to 30 days remains officially uncertain, but a Bay Area
group that led a national campaign to reject it is claiming victory.

"I think the issue is dead," said Pradeep Bhatia, a San Mateo banker who led an
online petition that collected the signatures of 86,000 people who criticized
the plan.

Thousands of legal immigrants in the Bay Area, many of them high-tech workers
from India and China on H-1B visas, opposed the proposed rule change, claiming
that it would impose a hardship on their families who come to Silicon Valley on
extended visits.

"I'd like to believe that as a result of our efforts here in the Bay Area, it
changed a few minds," Bhatia said.

The National Association of Realtors and the tourism industry also opposed the
plan, worried that visa limits would hurt their livelihood. Florida Gov. Jeb
Bush, brother of President George W. Bush, criticized the plan.

Last year, the U.S. Department of Justice, which oversaw the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, proposed to restrict tourist visas to 30 days, in
response to criticism that the immigration agency mishandled the visas of
terrorists involved in the Sept. 11 attacks.

The rule change on tourist visas was among a number of pending regulations that
the Justice Department didn't have time to complete when the INS was dissolved
on Feb. 28, changed to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS)
and moved under the newly created Department of Homeland Security.

"This is part of the process of transition," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman
for the new BCIS in Washington, D.C.

Strassberger declined to comment on the claim by opponents of the rule change
that the proposal has been withdrawn.

Although the Department of Justice will no longer pursue the rule change -- it
lost jurisdiction -- it doesn't mean that DHS will not, Strassberger said. It
will be up to DHS whether to resurrect the proposal and make it a new rule under
BCIS, he said.

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security did not return a telephone
message.

It has been 11 months since the Bush administration proposed the change,but
supporters of the plan, who believe that it's an important security measure, are
skeptical of reports that it's been withdrawn.

"It's hard to tell what it really means," said Jessica Vaughan, a senior policy
analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington, D.C., group that
supported the visa limit.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 10, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT NOT ALLOWED DOUBLE CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: ANDY BRUNO column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 248 words


Q
My cousin is a naturalized U.S. citizen of Filipino origin. She immigrated here
from Canada. Can she apply for Canadian citizenship even though she has been
sworn in as a United States citizen?

N. Ledesma
San Jose
A
If your cousin applies for and is granted Canadian citizenship, she must
relinquish her United States citizenship, said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for
the Bureau of Customs and Immigration Enforcement (formerly the Immigration and
Naturalization Service). If she would like more information on this issue, she
may contact the bureau's San Jose office at 1887 Monterey Road.

Recall: books

Random House is recalling 360,000 children's board book sets because they have
snaps that can detach and pose a choking hazard.

The recalled boxed book sets have children's characters on the front of the box,
a colored plastic handle and plastic snaps. Titles are: "Monsters to Go!,"
"Disney Princess -- Disney the Princess Collection 2," "Disney's Winnie the Pooh
-- A Very Merry Christmas" and "Barbie -- My Barbie Fun Box."

These sets were sold nationwide from August 2002 to January. Only books with
plastic -- not metal -- snaps are being recalled.

Consumers should cut off the box lid with the plastic snaps and throw the box
away. Send the lid with plastic snaps to Tri-State, in care of Anthony Armetta,
325 Rabro Drive, Hauppauge, N.Y. 11788 for a free replacement book set and
postage refund. For more information, call Random House at (800) 805-8534.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Action Line

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 11, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

BAY AREA PAKISTANIS RESENT REGISTRATION RULE

BYLINE: PATRICK MAY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1163 words


Ever since the United States added Pakistan to its list of mostly Muslim
countries whose nationals are required to register with the government,
Pakistanis from San Jose to New York City are discovering the home of the free
can be a very scary place.

The grapevine buzzes with tales of men 16 and older taken away in vans or
detained indefinitely by immigration authorities. Fears of mass
deportationsmount as the March 21 deadline approaches. Hundreds of illegal
visitors -- and in some cases even naturalized U.S. citizens -- have sought
asylum in eastern Canada in a highly publicized, frantic rush of Pakistanis who
have become refugees overnight.

In contrast to scenes of panicky asylum-seekers clogging border crossings in the
Northeast, the West Coast has remained relatively quiet. But while Bay Area
Pakistanis and Pakistani-Americans are not fleeing to Canada, they are
increasingly anxious about their status in this country.

Law-abiding citizens of Pakistani origin are furious that fellow countrymen are
being viewed as possible terrorists and that they must register and be
questioned, finger-printed and photographed. The fact that their homeland has
been a key supporter in the war on terrorism only adds to their resentment.

Some fear that once illegal Pakistanis have either fled the United States or
risked staying without registering, the government will come after naturalized
citizens next.

"We've lived here and in Canada 30 of my 40 years of marriage, but I feel scared
for my children," said Mussarrat Aziz, whose husband, Khalid, teaches at
Stanford University.

"People in the know say Pakistanis like us who are American citizens are next on
the list to have to register. Have we learned nothing from interning the
Japanese during World War II?

"The day they make me register," she said, "is the day I leave this country."

Immigration officials dismiss such fears, saying no one with proper paperwork
will be detained or deported.

"Citizens should not worry," said Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the Bureau
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "Lawful permanent residents aren't
required to register. We might detain someone for a few hours to do a complete
background check to make sure they're not on the terrorist watch list. But
nobody is being summarily deported, and everyone has a chance to go before a
judge."

The situation has been chaotic ever since officials added Pakistan to the list
of 24 other countries affected by the national security registration system,
passed by Congress in 1996 but put into effect after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. The government says the system helps track who's leaving and entering
the country, especially from regions of national security concern.

But just as hundreds of Pakistanis headed for the border in January, trying to
meet an original Feb. 21 deadline, Canada changed the way it dealt with refugees
applying for asylum. Some Pakistanis were bounced back into the United States --
and in some cases, detained and jailed.

There are several reasons why that phenomenon hasn't been echoed in the West.
Mohamed Shah, president of the Pakistan Association of the San Francisco Bay
Area, doesn't know of a single local Pakistani who has left for Canada. Shah
said asylum-seekers are primarily Pakistanis whose visas are out of status and
therefore face deportation if caught. "We have more professionals here, and we
don't have the large illegal community they do in New York City."

Statistics back up Shah's observation, and paint a portrait of two very
different populations:

* The Pakistani communities of the East Coast are much larger -- the 2000 Census
showed 71,488 people of Pakistani origin, including temporary residents, in the
Northeastern United States. The Bay Area is home to an estimated 8,000
Pakistanis.

* West Coast border towns don't have nearly as many refugee-assistance groups
active as northeast states.

* Anecdotal evidence suggests Bay Area Pakistanis, a third of whom live in Santa
Clara County, enjoy higher social standing and hold more professional positions
in business and academics than others around the country.

Randall Caudle, Santa Clara chapter chair of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, points out that the "bulk of Bay Area Pakistanis are H-1B visa
holders, engineers and computer workers." He said other large Pakistani
communities, such as Dallas and Chicago, have more "undocumented Pakistanis who
are taxi drivers or have other odd jobs."

A perception that eastern Canada is more welcoming to refugees also helps
explain the rush to the northeast border. Statistically, both the number
ofclaims and the acceptance rates for asylum-seekers of all nationalities are
historically higher in eastern Canada than in Vancouver.

In 2002, 47 percent of all refugee claims were accepted in Canada. But the rate
in the Vancouver office was just 30 percent, with Toronto at 50 percent.

While this cross-country dichotomy plays out, Pakistan has reacted angrily to
its addition to the list. Foreign Minister Khursheed Kasuri met with senior U.S.
officials in Washington to ask that Pakistan be exempted in consideration for
its help in the war on terrorism. In January meetings with President Bush,
national security adviser Condoleezza Rice and others, Kasuri said any mass
deportation of Pakistanis would spawn deep resentment in his country and
possibly even destabilize the government. Federal officials agreed to extend the
deadline by a month.

Asad Hayauddin, spokesman for the Pakistan Embassy in Washington, said once
Pakistan was assured the system would eventually include all countries whose
nationals require a visa to visit the United States, the embassy began working
with immigration officials to ensure registration was as painless as possible.

"We have the largest number of people of all the target countries on the list,
with upwards of 14,000 affected," Hayauddin said. "We have helped with the war
on terrorism, and on a governmental level, Pakistan is receiving kudos from the
United States; but on a people level, Pakistanis are seen as suspects, even
though not a single Pakistani has been involved, indicted or convicted of being
involved in the events of Sept. 11."

The U.S. government acknowledges that while the process has been unpleasant for
some, it has aided the war on terrorism. Officials say registration has helped
net more than 330 individuals from felons to terrorists, including Al-Qaida
operatives. Of the 32,000 men who have registered so far, more than 3,000 face
deportation.

Aziz's husband, Khalid, a professor of petroleum engineering, said the spectacle
of fellow Pakistanis streaming toward Canada distresses him. "They feel they can
be picked up at any time without access to the legal system and that's tragic,"
he said. "We thought we were friends of the United States and did all we could
to fight terrorism. Now we are treated like we are the enemy."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2003

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 03/12/03, pg. 2A)
Photo captions Tuesday in the world report accompanying an article about
Pakistanis and Pakistani-Americans were unclear. Khalid and Mussarrat Aziz are
U.S. citizens.

In the same article, a Pakistan Embassy official was quoted as saying that no
Pakistanis were involved in the Sept. 11 terror attacks. The nationality of
Khalid Shaikh Mohammad, regarded by the U.S. government as the chief planner of
the attacks and the operations chief for Al-Qaida, is unclear. News accounts say
he was born to Pakistani parents in Kuwait and raised in Kuwait, and carries
Pakistani and Kuwaiti passports.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: NHAT V. MEYER -- MERCURY NEWS
Pakistanis such as Khalid and Mussarrat Aziz of Palo Alto worry that they will
be forced to register under new U.S. federal immigration requirements despite
being American citizens. Khalid Aziz is a professor of petroleum engineering at
Stanford University.
PHOTO: NHAT V. MEYER -- MERCURY NEWS
Pakistanis Khalid and Mussarrat Aziz of Palo Alto are U.S. citizens and have
lived in the U.S. and Canada for 30 years. But the couple says they are scared
for their children.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 15, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PAKISTANIS OVERWHELM CANADIAN BORDER OFFICIALS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: VERMONT


A northward exodus of Pakistanis seeking to leave the United States has
overwhelmed Canadian immigration authorities and swamped shelters, mosques,
churches, and aid agencies along the northern border. The surge of people
seeking safe haven is the latest result of Washington's new mandate that men
from 25 mostly Muslim nations register with federal officials and be
photographed, fingerprinted and possibly questioned.

Friday, the major immigrant-aid group in northern Vermont ceased direct relief
to new arrivals denied entry to Canada.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 20, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE ORDERS FIRMS CLOSED;
COMPANIES' WORK WITH IMMIGRANTS CITED BY STATE

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 342 words


Three San Mateo County immigration consultant firms were shut down this week by
a judge's order for allegedly violating a state law that regulates such
businesses.

All three firms are alleged to have been operating without posting a $50,000
bond with the secretary of state, which is required of immigration consultants,
said Hallye Jordan, a spokeswoman for Attorney General Bill Lockyer.

The firms were ordered closed by Superior Court Judge Mark R. Forcum, acting on
a request for a temporary restraining order by Lockyer's office. The owners will
have an opportunity to obtain the bond before a future court hearing, Jordan
said.

The complaints were filed in San Mateo County Superior Court against the
following businesses and individuals:

* Huangs & Associates of Foster City; George Huang, Brian C. Huang, Karen T.
Huang and Helen M. Huang.

* Kelly Tax Service and Kelly Tax and Notary Service of San Mateo; Davis Vargas
and Jackelyn Vargas.

* Miranda & Associate and Miranda & Associates of South San Francisco; and
Bessie Miranda.

Contacted late Tuesday, Davis Vargas of Kelly Tax Service denied wrongdoing,
saying his firm does not do immigration consulting work. He said he suspects the
attorney general went after his firm because he inadvertently listed his tax
business in the immigration consultant section of the Yellow Pages. However, he
said he would seek the bond.

The owners of Miranda & Associates and the owners of Huangs & Associates could
not be reached for comment.

If found liable, the consultants could be subject to stiff penalties for
operating without a bond and would have to reimburse the state for its costs in
bringing the suit, Jordan said.

Immigration consultants specialize in helping immigrants fill out documents
needed to become permanent residents or citizens, but they sometimes provide
legal advice, which is unlawful.

Anyone who believes he or she may be a victim of fraudulent consultants can call
the Attorney General's Office of Immigrant Assistance at (888) 587-0557.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 21, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEDERAL IMMIGRATION SERVICE SAYS IT'S WORKING TO FIX A PROBLEM

BYLINE: ANDY BRUNO column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 286 words


Q
I hope you can help with my mother's case with the federal Bureau of Citizenship
and Immigration Services (BCIS), so she can become a citizen of the United
States. My mother has been waiting for almost two years. She mailed her
application in March 2001.

Last October, my mother received a letter saying she was scheduled for
swearing-in on Dec. 14. Within a couple of days she received another letter
stating that date was canceled, and that she would be given a new date. But
that's the last we've heard.

An interesting side note is that my father applied for citizenship about six
months after my mother and he already has been sworn in.

Duc Nguyen
San Jose
A
Because of privacy issues, BCIS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery couldn't give us any
details about your mother's case. All she could say is that the agency has taken
action to bring this problem to a conclusion. She has sent you her phone number
so you can call her directly if you have any additional questions.

Tip: Free water-saving toilets available

The city of San Jose is coordinating a program to provide 3,000 water-saving
toilets to selected homeowners. To be eligible, homeowners must own or live in a
single-family home condominium, townhouse or mobile home in San Jose,
SantaClara, Milpitas, Campbell, Cupertino, Saratoga, Monte Sereno or Los Gatos.
The toilets cannot be used to replace an existing ultra-low flush toilet, and
homeowners must agree to recycle their old toilet.

Other requirements and more information is available at
www.slowtheflow.com/ulfts.htm or by calling San Jose's Water Efficiency Program
at (408) 277-2600. Toilets will be delivered with installation instructions.

Brian Lee
City of San Jose

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Action Line

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 21, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IRAQIS VISITED IN FBI PROBE;
CIVIL LIBERTIES GROUPS BRISTLE AT INITIATIVE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9AA

LENGTH: 391 words


Two FBI agents came knocking on Zahraldin Albedani's door Thursday, with
questions about security, terrorist acts and the horrific life he fled as a
political prisoner sentenced to death in Saddam Hussein's Iraq.

Albedani served them apple juice and pound cake at his San Jose apartment, and
while they ate, he told them his story.

"I have nothing to hide. We are ready to cooperate, to defend America," said the
Iraqi political refugee, one of thousands of Iraqis being questioned as part of
a nationwide, wartime security dragnet.

Civil liberties groups in the Bay Area and across the country denounced the FBI
initiative that began Thursday, an effort to find and detain Iraqis who are in
the United States unlawfully, without visas or expired travel documents.

"What is the FBI interested in here? Busting a few immigrants for technical
violations on their visas or cooperation that may result in helpful evidence?"
asked Robert Rubin, director of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights in San
Francisco. Rubin said the questioning could alienate Iraqis.

Immigrant and refugee advocates say some Iraqis found the experience
humiliating.

Ellen Dumesnil, a division director at Catholic Charities in San Jose, is
monitoring the interviews since her organization helped resettle many
Iraqirefugees like Albedani in the Bay Area after the Persian Gulf War.

"They want to cooperate, they want to help, but this whole thing creates a layer
of stress," she said. Albedani, however, said the half-hour meeting was not
disturbing. "They were very kind," he said.

The FBI agents, a man and woman, first promised to help Albedani if he became a
victim of a hate crime. "I felt they were sincere," he said.

The agents also asked questions about Albedani's life in Iraq, his feelings
about the war, and whether he has committed any crimes since coming here two
years ago.

"They told me that if I saw anyone trying to do something bad to America, a
person trying to commit a terrorist act, it's better to cooperate and contact
them," said Albedani, who was jailed and tortured in Iraq for campaigning
against Saddam Hussein's political party. He escaped to Jordan.

The 41-year-old father of three small children said he answered emphatically. "I
would still do that," he said. "It's my duty because America did a lot for us."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMERICA AT WAR

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Albedani
San Jose man says agents "were very kind."

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 22, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IRAQI IMMIGRANT INTERVIEWS HAVE BEEN HELPFUL, FBI SAYS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 484 words


The FBI has questioned 125 Iraqis in the Bay Area in the past two days and the
voluntary interviews have yielded "positive intelligence," information that may
be useful to U.S. ground forces in Iraq, a government official said Friday.

The interviews of an undetermined number of Iraqis nationwide, part of wartime
security initiative, will continue in the next few days, said Special Agent
LaRae Quy, an FBI official in San Francisco.

"I know the ACLU is concerned," Quy said, responding to criticism by Bay Area
civil liberties groups that the dragnet unfairly singles out a group.

Friday, the American Civil Liberties Union announced a hotline -- (415) 285-1055
-- for Iraqis who are being questioned by the FBI, said Jayashri Srikantiah, a
staff attorney with the ACLU of Northern California.

"It's extremely important for the immigrant community to know that immigration
status does not equate with no legal rights," said Robert Rubin, director of the
Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights in San Francisco, one of Bay Area groups
offering free legal advice.

Quy declined to discuss the nature of intelligence gathered by agents during
their interviews of recent refugees from Iraq and Iraqi-Americans. Only one
refused to be interviewed, she said.

Mountain View resident Hala Alshahwany, a 41-year-old chemical engineer, was
greeted by two FBI agents Thursday morning, before she drank her first cup of
coffee.

Alshahwany, an American citizen, said the visit was courteous and quick. She was
still in her pajamas and robe when she greeted the agents, whom she did not let
in.

"I was startled," she said Friday.

The agents wanted to know the whereabouts of her two brothers, one a physician,
the other a software engineer. Both are green-card holders, or permanent
residents, and emigrated from Iraq three years ago.

She declined to give the agents her brothers' addresses and phone numbers. But
after the interview, she called her brothers and they called the FBI agents.
Their interviews went without problems, she said.

"I've lived here long enough to know that I have rights. I said this is a
voluntary interview but they didn't tell me that," said Alshahwany,
whoimmigrated to the U.S. in 1979.

In recent weeks, the FBI met with various community groups to inform them that
agents will question Iraqis as part of a national security plan.

"No one should be shocked when we show up," Quy said.

For some Iraqi-Americans, including those who were not interviewed, the FBI
visits are a reminder of the repressive nation they fled.

Nazar Alquroaishi, 59, who owns a San Jose Internet business that sells
computers, was not interviewed by the FBI. Alquroaishi said agents are singling
out "Iraqis, and to me that's a sad story. We hate Saddam and his Iraq because
he persecuted us. And we love this country because you can live the way you like
and speak out freely."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMERICA AT WAR
Bay Area

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 29, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW FEDERAL AGENCY SWEARS IN CITIZENS;
AT CEREMONY IN L.A. ARENA IMMIGRANTS EXPRESS SUPPORT, GRATITUDE FOR U.S. TROOPS

BYLINE: GARY GENTILE, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Thousands of immigrants from more than 100 countries pledged allegiance to the
United States on Friday.

The new citizens included 23 servicemen and women who received enthusiastic
applause from the crowd, which displayed its patriotism by waving small flags
and commenting in support of about America's war to oust Iraqi leader Saddam
Hussein.

"I don't know why they left him until now," said Khajik Haroian, 65, who came to
the United States from Baghdad six years ago.

"My feeling of gratitude to our troops is so deep," said Ann Claire Van Shaick
Pahlavi, who was born in Tehran. "I feel such gratitude for their willingness to
fight for my freedom. If only for that I'm proud to come here today."

In all, more than 7,500 immigrants were sworn in during the day's two mass
citizenship ceremonies at the Sports Arena, which temporarily served as a
federal court for the occasion.

It was the first mass swearing in of citizens of its size held under the new
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, a division of the Department of
Homeland Security. The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which used to
administer the program, ceased to exist March 1.

The oath was administered to the first group by U.S. District Court Judge Gary
Feess, who made special remarks for the military personnel who became citizens.

"Freedom comes with a price," Feess said. "I salute them and their willingness
to sacrifice their individual objectives in the short run for the long-term
objectives of their country."

Leroy Alveranga, an Army specialist, said he had no doubts about serving his new
country.

"It's all about what you promised to do, defend the Constitution of the United
States," said Alveranga, who was born in Jamaica. "It's not about where you are
from, it's about where you live."

Most of the new citizens came from Mexico, followed by the Philippines, Vietnam,
Korea and Iran.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: NICK UT -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW AMERICANS: Mexican immigrant Maria Teresa Camino and others wave flags after
being sworn in as citizens Friday.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 29, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROTESTERS SING OUT;
PENINSULA GROUP RALLIES AGAINST NEW VISA POLICY FOR FOREIGNERS

BYLINE: MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 456 words


The Raging Grannies continued their tour of protest sites Friday, as they sang
and picketed at the San Jose federal immigration office, where they decried the
forced registration of certain foreign citizens.

Singing songs such as "America We Weep for Thee" (sung to the tune of "America
the Beautiful") and "FBI is All Over Town" (sung to the tune of "Santa Claus is
Coming to Town), these grandmothers from the Peninsula's wealthiest towns came
to deliver a series of messages.

"This is our way of protesting against the war, the current administration and
the lack of justice," said Maxine Eggerth, 84, a Palo Alto resident, one of
about a dozen grannies and 20 other protesters from cities such as Menlo Park
and Los Altos Hills.

The Grannies, who wore straw hats with flowers and buttons, deplore the fact
that immigrants from 25 mostly Muslim countries have been forced to register at
offices of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, which before
March 1 was the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Male visa holders older than 16 from Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan or
Kuwait who do not have green cards must go to BCIS offices by April 25 or risk
deportation. Registrants will be photographed, fingerprinted and interviewed.

Supporters say the measure is a matter of national security because the visa
program -- which allows visitors and immigrants to enter the country -- was a
flawed and vulnerable process before Sept. 11, 2001. All 19 Sept. 11 hijackers
came on some sort of visa, and three had expired visas at the time of the
attacks.

But critics say that the measure illogically ties nationality with terrorism,
forcing people, some of whom have been here for decades, to be treated like
criminals. Many of those whose visas have expired have been detained.

"They're being mistreated," said Ruth Chippendale, 73, also of Palo Alto.
"There's so much injustice."

Chippendale said there's a reason the Raging Grannies want to highlight their
age.

"Through the years, it's been mainly the young kids, hippies," who go to
protest, she said. "This is to show that there's another generation out there,
too."

Nancy Crosby, 71, wore an American flag jacket because she wanted to show that
dissent is not anti-American. Crosby said it was the United States that has used
weapons of mass destruction in so many countries, from Agent Orange and napalm
in Vietnam to the atomic bomb in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. But that shouldn't be
the case, she said.

"We're Americans," said Crosby, a Cupertino resident whose ancestors fought in
the Revolutionary War. "We fought against tyranny."

For more information, go to www.immigration.gov and click on the link for
Special Registration.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RAGING GRANNIES VOICE THEIR OPINIONS

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
ON THE ROAD AGAIN: Lynn Mitchell, 65, left, and Ruth Robertson, 50, of the
Raging Grannies dance during a rally last month at Roosevelt Park in San Jose.
The Peninsula group targeted the San Jose federal immigration office Friday to
protest forced registration of certain foreign citizens.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 2, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TEEN APPEARS TO QUALIFY UNDER CITIZENSHIP ACT

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 562 words


Q
I was born in the United States and am married to a Ukranian woman who has a
16-year-old son, who is a permanent resident. Can he become a citizen
automatically, under the Child Citizenship Act of 2000? He fits perfectly into
some of the requirements for automatic citizenship, but I'm a little unclear on
the one that states that he must have at least one parent who is a U.S. citizen
whether by birth or naturalization.

Lawrence
A
As long as you have legal custody of the boy, and he lives with you and your
wife, then he should qualify for citizenship, said Carolyn Choi, an immigration
attorney in Los Altos. To acquire a citizenship certificate, take your
documentation and his green card to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services (BCIS) and fill out an N-600 form, Choi said. You also can apply for
his passport at any passport agency.

Q
I have petitioned for a relative to come to the United States on an immigrant
visa by sending an I-130 form and attaching my original certificate of
naturalization to the immigration service. I also sent a self-addressed, stamped
envelope to get my certificate back, but it has been several weeks and it still
hasn't been returned. I understand I was required to send the original, and it's
a punishable violation to make a copy of the naturalization certificate. But how
would I go about getting my certificate back?

Revathi
A
Keep waiting, and hopefully the BCIS will return it. For future reference, rest
assured that many new citizens make a photocopy of their naturalization
certificates to keep for their own records, according to some local immigration
attorneys.

Choi, the lawyer in Los Altos, said she recommends that her clients make a copy
of the original before sending it because "there's a very good chance you may
never see it again." Although the back of the certificate states it is illegal
to photocopy, Choi said she has never heard of someone being prosecuted for
making a personal copy.

Fingerprinting

With little fanfare, the new San Jose fingerprinting office of the BCIS opened
Tuesday at 122 Charcot Ave.

The Application Support Center, where applicants for permanent residency and
naturalization are fingerprinted, used to be at 740 Story Road. But that office
was closed to allow the BCIS to move to a larger office and accommodate a larger
customer base.

The new center can serve as many as 400 customers, twice the capacity of the old
office on Story Road. The office has about 8,000 square feet, more than double
the space of the old office.

"It's more efficient, more comfortable, and there's room to expand," said Sharon
Rummery, spokeswoman for BCIS in San Francisco.

Before 1997, immigrants applying for green cards went to private firms or local
police departments for their fingerprints. But the error rate on those
fingerprints -- many were unreadable -- was more than two-thirds, Rummery said.

The botched fingerprints resulted in months-long delays for immigrants'
applications, she said.

The fingerprinting services provided by the BCIS support centers are high-tech:
A machine captures an image of fingerprints, and the whole set is sent
electronically to the FBI.

Immigrants may now visit the support centers to renew green cards and take
photographs.

The new center on Charcot Avenue is open Tuesday to Saturday, 8 a.m. to4 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 10, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION SERVICES CONSULTANT ARRAIGNED ON CHARGES OF THEFT, SEVEN
MISDEMEANORS

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE


The operator of a San Jose paralegal business providing immigration consulting
services has been arraigned on two felony charges and seven misdemeanor counts,
the Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office reported Wednesday.

Fariba Farhang Azad, 41, of Azad Paralegal Services, faces a maximum three-year
state prison sentence.

The felony charges are for one count of grand theft and one count of attempted
grand theft. Misdemeanor counts include the unauthorized practice of law,
failing to register as a legal document assistant, and failing to provide proper
contracts to clients.

The Azad prosecution is one of a series of cases filed by the district
attorney's Consumer Protection Unit aimed at illegal activities by non-attorneys
who offer legal assistance.

In December 2002, Azad was ordered to stop offering paralegal services because
she was not registered and bonded, as required by state law. Despite that order,
she agreed to handle a divorce matter for a new client, said a representative of
the district attorney's office.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Valley Roundup
News From Your Community

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 16, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDENT MOVED BY INJUSTICE TO LEND A HAND

BYLINE: PETER DELEVETT column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 620 words


Some people see bad things happening, shake their heads and move on. Others --
too few, usually -- feel compelled to help.

Sharon Cho is one of the few.

In January, the 26-year-old law student at Santa Clara University read about 275
Korean immigrants who are facing deportation because a federal immigration
official in San Jose gave them fake green cards.

The official took bribes from consultants who promised to help the immigrants
navigate the Byzantine rules of permanent residency. A federal prosecutor has
said not all of the immigrants knew about the bribes. Many had a right to green
cards.

But now, years later, they're being hauled in for holding bogus papers.

Cho, who is Korean-American, says she was moved by "the unfairness of it all.
Even in a criminal trial, the worst of defendants are given the benefit of a
reasonable doubt. They're innocent until proven guilty."

Cho was especially bothered that some of the consultants operated out of a
church, where one was a deacon and another a pastor's son. "I go to church as
well," Cho explains; her answering machine greets callers with the message, "God
bless."

So Cho decided to tackle the problem for her public interest law class, hoping
to find some creative solutions. She even recruited a classmate, Polly Hey, to
help.

Keeping at it

First Cho contacted Alex Park, the Santa Clara lawyer who represents many of the
immigrants. Cho offered to help with the legal grunt work, but Park was leery
about sharing sensitive client information with Cho's class.

She and Hey then started researching how to draft legislation to give fraud
victims more legal protections. But that posed research hurdles that seemed to
high to clear in one semester.

Now Cho is launching a public awareness campaign to help the victimized
immigrants and try to keep others from the same pitfalls. She's written an
article that will run in two local Korean-language newspapers, offering tips on
finding legitimate immigration consultants and where to go for help.

A public service announcement will run on Radio Seoul, a Korean-language station
that's carried across California. Meanwhile, Hey has drafted a petition for Tom
Ridge, head of the Department of Homeland Security, which now oversees
immigration.

"We're saying, 'Give these people a fair hearing,' " she says.

Little guys

Cho and Hey aren't the only people trying to help the immigrants. Reps. Mike
Honda and Zoe Lofgren in January sent a letter to Attorney General John
Ashcroft, asking him to ensure fair hearings for the scam victims. State
Assembly members Manny Diaz and Carol Liu sponsored a similar resolution in
February.

Spokesmen for Lofgren and Honda say they haven't heard back from Ashcroft, whose
office no longer oversees immigration. With massive reorganizational changes
sweeping the immigration service, 275 immigrants may not be a top priority.

But the reorganization hasn't slowed the deportation proceedings, says Park, the
immigration attorney.

Honda and Lofgren, both experts on immigrant issues, should continue to press
the feds. Since the crooked supervisor shredded most of the documents that could
prove the immigrants were here legally, the bureaucrats should guarantee a fair
and transparent process. "Trust us, we're the government" isn't good enough.

The disgraced consultants should step up as well to try to clear their former
clients. Two of them I've contacted say they feel badly for the people facing
deportation but want to put the ordeal behind them.

But what about the people they've left behind?

Those people aren't Sharon Cho and Polly Hey's problem. Cho and Hey don't have
to help. It's just not in their natures to turn away.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 16, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OPTIONS FOR DECIDING WHERE TO GET MARRIED

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 672 words


Q
I am a U.S. citizen, and my fiancee lives in Mexico. What's the best way to
start her immigration process -- by getting married here or in Mexico?

Mario
San Jose
A
There are a couple of options to consider, says Sacha Steenhoek, an immigration
case worker with the International Institute in Redwood City. If you marry her
in Mexico, she'll have to stay there, and you'll have to return to California to
initiate the paperwork for a K visa through the U.S. Department of State. If the
process stays on schedule, your wife could obtain her visa within about five
months, Steenhoek said.

The other option, if you plan to get married in the United States, is for you to
apply for your fiancee's K visa from San Jose. She would then obtain the visa at
a U.S. Consulate in Mexico. Once your fiancee is admitted to the United States,
she'll have 90 days to get married, Steenhoek said. The one drawback is that it
could be difficult to plan a wedding while waiting several months for a visa,
with no guarantee that it will be processed by a certain date. There's also the
stress knowing that once you've entered the United States with that visa, you'll
have less than three months to tie the knot.

Q
I am working in the United States with an H-1 visa, and my daughter is 23 years
old. Is it possible for her to get an H-4 visa, which is for dependents of H-1
holders?

Paul
Fremont
A
Nope. Only children younger than 21 are considered to be dependents, said Ning
Gan, a San Jose immigration lawyer.

Q
Can a Bosnian refugee who has lived in the area and been employed the past 4 1/2
years with work authorization but without a green card apply for citizenship?

Gary
San Jose
A
You first need to obtain a green card by becoming a permanent resident. After
you do that, you have to wait five years to become eligible to apply for
citizenship. (That wait is cut down to three years if you're married to a
citizen or permanent resident.)

People who are admitted to the United States under a refugee program, or who
come on their own to seek asylum, must remain in the country for a year before
applying for permanent residency, so you should be eligible to apply. Once you
apply for permanent residency, a procedure also known as an "adjustment of
status," the immigration service will send you a note confirming that the
application was received, and provide an estimate of the length of time you have
to wait. It's not unusual for that waiting period to be at least five years,
said Beverly Byrd, a San Jose immigration attorney. In the meantime, you can
usually renew a work authorization permit on an annual basis, said Byrd.

Q
My father-in-law petitioned for an immigrant visa for his daughter, my
sister-in-law, in the Philippines. The application was approved earlier this
year. But my father-in-law died Oct. 1. Is the petition still valid? What are
the alternatives?

Elena Valderrama
Hayward
A
Under current regulations, approval of a visa petition on behalf of a relative
of a U.S. citizen or permanent resident is automatically revoked when the
petitioner dies, according to David Sheen, a Newark immigration lawyer.

In some cases, the attorney general could waive the revocation for humanitarian
reasons, he said.

Last year, President Bush signed a new law, the Family Sponsor Immigration Act
of 2002, which allows the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services to
reinstate the petition for humanitarian reasons if the visa petition was
approved before the death of the petitioner, he said.

In this case, a "substitute" sponsor may sign immigration Form I-864 (Affidavit
of Support) and, if the sponsor meets the income requirements, allow the
applicant to obtain permanent residence, Sheen said.

The substitute sponsor must be related to the person applying in one of the
following ways: as a spouse, parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sibling,
child or grandchild who is 18 or older, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparent or legal guardian.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 25, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SPY CASE WORRIES KOREAN EMIGRES;
MANY WONDER ABOUT TIMING OF ARREST

BYLINE: K. OANH HA, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 573 words


A case of alleged espionage against a Korean-American businessman in Los Angeles
is sending waves of anxiety through the Korean immigrant community in California
and making many wonder whether the timing is linked to a tough U.S. stance
toward North Korea.

John Joung-woong Yai, a 59-year-old sandwich shop owner, was arrested in
February and accused of secretly passing information -- newspaper clippings and
other publicly-available documents -- to North Korean authorities. He faces
federal charges of failing to register as an agent of a foreign government, of
failing to report more than $10,000 he brought into the country and of lying to
U.S. customs officials. Yai faces a maximum of 30 years in prison if convicted.

"Yai was tasked by the North Korean government to gain access to classified
documents," said Federal Bureau of Investigation spokeswoman Cheryl Mimura.
However, "there's no proof that he got classified documents."

The government has been monitoring Yai for at least the past seven years,
according to court documents. Yai, born and raised in Seoul before immigrating
to the United States in 1975, has been an advocate for reunification of North
and South Korea.

Yai admits to receiving payment from "people in North Korea" for his expenses in
providing them publicly-available documents -- an exercise of his First
Amendment rights, said his attorney, William Genego. The FBI first opened a file
on Yai in 1982, when he attended a Korean reunification conference in Europe,
said Genego, who described the government's prosecution of his client as
"troubling."

The timing -- amid tense U.S. efforts to halt North Korea's nuclear program --
hasn't escaped the notice of California's Korean immigrant community. The case
has especially shocked Southern California's immigrant Korean population, the
nation's largest. In the Bay Area, fewer Korean-Americans know about the case,
though the few who do also strongly question the government's motivations.

"This government isn't friendly to North Korea right now," said Tak Chang, a
lawyer and a Santa Clara County Human Relations Commission member. "You know
that anyone who is involved with the North Koreans would be prosecuted
zealously. I would be cautious now about having any contact with North Korea."

Kyeyoung Park, who teaches anthropology and Asian-American studies at the
University of California-Los Angeles, wondered why the U.S. government has
singled out Yai. Unlike Katrina Leung, a prominent Chinese-American with
political clout who was recently arrested on charges of being a double agent for
the United States and China, Yai is "not a big shot," Park said. "What exactly
has he done?"

Meanwhile, an e-mail petition is circulating in the community calling fora fair
trial for Yai. Ken Roh, a longtime friend of Yai's who started it, described Yai
as a "humble and gentle" person. Roh attended church with Yai in the 1970s and
1980s and was also active in the reunification movement. He said many of his
colleagues believe Yai is a "scapegoat" caught between the political tensions of
the United States and North Korea, which are currently holding talks in Beijing.

"He is not qualified to be a spy. He doesn't speak English very well. He doesn't
have any job relating to the government. He doesn't know anyone who has access
to classified information," Roh said. "At first we were all shocked. But now
it's ridiculous."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 26, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISITOR REGISTRY PROGRAM ENDS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 562 words


Civil rights activists staged a quiet vigil Friday afternoon to mark the final
day of a much-criticized special registration program for men and boys from
primarily Muslim countries.

Beginning in December, the government has required temporary visa holders from
25 Arab, African, Asian and Middle Eastern countries who are living in the
United States to report to local offices of the Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services, the former INS, for photographs, fingerprinting and
interviews.

In all, 76,820 people registered as part of the national security program
designed to track the movement of foreigners, according to Lori Haley, a
spokeswoman for the bureau in Washington, D.C.

Of those who registered, 2,383 were temporarily detained and 199 remain in
custody, including 11 suspected terrorists, Haley said. Almost 11,000 face
deportation because of visa violations, such as overstaying their visits.

Total numbers for the Bay Area and California were not available, Haley said.
But within the first month of registration, 400 people were detained across the
state, including at least two dozen in the Bay Area.

The program is part of an overall tightening of border security and immigration
controls after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, which were committed by
U.S. visitors on tourist or student visas.

From the start, immigrant advocates and civil rights groups in the Bay Area and
around the country denounced the program as a form of profiling.

"What we've seen is how amazingly ineffective this entire process has been in
terms of building real security," said Anirvan Chatterjee, a member of the
Alliance for South Asians Taking Action, a Bay Area group that monitored the
program and participated in the vigil in San Francisco on Friday.

Volunteers for the group interviewed people who registered Friday at federal
offices in San Francisco and San Jose. The group also opened legal clinics to
give free legal advice to people required to register.

"This is supposed to be a broad-based immigration policy, but it's really one
that targets a specific community, and one playing off anti-Muslim, anti-Arab
hysteria," said Robert Chlala, media director for the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee in San Francisco.

Supporters of the measure, including groups in favor of tightening immigration
controls, have said the program is a necessary counterterrorism measure.
Government officials also declared the special registration a success.

"It's an important thing," said Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the
immigration bureau in San Francisco. "It's something that American citizens want
to have."

When the program began in late December, it included only five countries: Iran,
Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria. The process at first was rife withproblems caused
by poor publicity by the immigration service and the Department of Justice. As a
result, hundreds of Iranian men and boys were detained in Southern California
and in the Bay Area for registering late or for other minor infractions.

As the program progressed, the government added 20 countries to the list. The
final group that registered Friday included visitors from Bangladesh, Egypt,
Indonesia, Jordan and Kuwait.

Government officials have said the program could continue, but it is unclear
whether new groups will be added, Rummery said.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE PROGRAM'S IMPACT
A federal program started in December requires temporary visa holders from 25
Arab, African, Asian and Middle Eastern countries who are living in the United
States to report to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services for
photographs, fingerprinting and interviews. So far, nearly 11,000 face
deportation. Also:
76,820 people have registered
2,383 were temporarily detained
199 remain in custody
Source: Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services
MERCURY NEWS

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 30, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOW TO REPLACE LOST NATURALIZATION PAPERS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 497 words


Q
I was naturalized in November 1971, but I have lost my citizenship papers. How
do I replace them, and where?

Sandra Stevens
Milpitas
A
People who lose their naturalization certificates should complete form N-565 and
turn it in at their local office of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services as soon as possible, said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the bureau in
San Francisco.

The form is available on the BCIS Web site (www.immigration.gov) and can be
completed online and the printed copy submitted to the BCIS. The fee for
replacing naturalization certificates is $155, Rummery said.

Q
I was recently naturalized and have two children who both got their green cards
in 1996. One daughter will turn 19 in June; the other is 14. When do they
qualify for citizenship?

Armando Eschavez
San Jose
A
Your 18-year-old is eligible to file her own application for naturalization now
as long as she meets the U.S. residency requirements, according to Carole
Mesrobian, an immigration attorney in San Jose.

She should submit form N-400 to the California Service Center along with a
filing fee of $260 and a fingerprint fee of $50. She'll need to provide two
color photographs and a copy of her green card.

Now that you're a citizen, you can apply for a citizenship certificate for your
14-year-old, Mesrobian said. A child born outside the United States
automatically acquires citizenship (also known as "derivative citizenship") when
at least one biological parent is a citizen, either by birth or naturalization.

To apply for your 14-year-old daughter, complete form N-600 and submit it to
your local BCIS office along with a filing fee of $185, three passport-size
color photographs, documents such as her birth certificate, your marriage
certificate and a copy of her green card establishing her claim to citizenship.
Both of you will have to appear for a personal interview.

Processing N-600 applications takes four to six months at the San Jose
immigration office, Mesrobian said.

BCIS in cyberspace: As part of a major modernization plan, the immigration
service will soon accept certain applications online.

The BCIS will offer electronic filing for two common forms -- the application
for new or renewal green cards (I-90), and the application for employment
authorization (I-765). The forms represent about 30 percent of the applications
received by the bureau each year.

E-filing will begin May 29 through www.bcis.gov.

Those who apply online will not initially have to submit photos but will do so
later, at an Application Support Center. The centers store the pictures,
signatures and fingerprints in an electronic format.

Electronic filing is part of a 10-year effort to modernize the immigration
service. Future improvements are expected to be made in customer service and
employee training, among other areas.

For more information on e-filing, call the national Customer Service Center:
(800) 375-5283.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 1, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WOMAN ARRAIGNED IN ALLEGED INVESTMENT SCAM

BYLINE: From Mercury News staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 227 words


A 38-year-old San Jose woman who worked as an immigration consultant was
arraigned in Santa Clara County court on Wednesday for allegedly collecting
$72,000 but failing to perform promised services, authorities said.

Santa Clara County prosecutors said Olga Elvira Pardo, also known as Angelina
Farfan, allegedly offered to invest money for acquaintances and also assist
Latin American immigrants in obtaining their legal residency.

One victim lost $10,000 as part of an investment scam, said prosecutor Yen B.
Dang. Pardo was being held in Santa Clara County Jail in lieu of $1 million
bond. She faces up to eight years in prison if convicted on all seven charges.

People who may have fallen prey to Pardo's alleged scam are asked to call San
Jose police Officer Jennifer Dotzler at (408) 277-4521.

In a separate case, authorities were searching for another immigration
consultant for failing to appear at a criminal court hearing earlier this week.

Carlos Fernandez, 40, was arrested last week for allegedly defrauding at least
six Latino immigrants. He was released on $75,000 bond, but he failed to appear
at a court hearing Monday. A no-bail warrant has been issued for his arrest,
prosecutors said.

Anyone with information on Fernandez's whereabouts can call district attorney's
investigator Jorge Perez, (408) 792-2745.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Valley Roundup
News From Your Community

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 5, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEWER IMMIGRANTS BACK WAR, POLL SAYS;
U.S. SURVEY CONDUCTED IN 11 LANGUAGES

BYLINE: PUTSATA REANG, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 526 words


Foreign-born Americans are less likely to support the war in Iraq than the
general public, according to an unprecedented national survey released today
that was conducted in 11 languages.

The poll, commissioned by New California Media, also revealed that immigrants
from Latin America, Asia and the Middle East fear the war's potential impact on
the economy and quality of life will affect them more adversely than the general
public.

The results contrast those of recent Field Polls, which have shown overwhelming
support of military action in the Middle East.

"There have been dozens of polls measuring public opinion, but immigrants, many
of them, are not comfortable in English," said Sergio Bendixen, whose firm,
Bendixen & Associates, conducted the poll. "We never get to find out what their
point of view is. Are they seeing this war differently than others? And the
answer is 'yes.' "

According to the survey, 61 percent of Asian and 50 percent of Latin American
immigrants say they support the war, compared with 78 percent of Americans
surveyed in an English-language poll released last month.

Pollsters surveyed 1,000 immigrants who speak languages including Farsi, Urdu,
Spanish, Vietnamese and Mandarin, selecting them by using a computer database of
telephone numbers listing ethnic surnames. The poll's margin of error ranges
from 4.5 to 7.1 percentage points for the different immigrant groups polled.

The poll showed Vietnamese and Filipinos favored the U.S. involvement in the war
at a higher rate than other Asians, with 85 percent and 75 percent respectively
supporting war. Immigrants from China showed the least support for military
action, with 40 percent.

Experts say strong support among Vietnamese immigrants may be due to their
anti-communist sentiments and views of the United States as their country's
would-be liberators.

"Unless you poll in these languages, you'll never find these nuances," said
David Lee, executive director of the Chinese American Voter Education Committee,
which partnered with New California Media on the poll. "Politicians and
policymakers pay attention to polls. If your opinion isn't captured in a poll,
you don't count. You're invisible."

One respondent, Eduardo Biag, 68, a retired Los Angeles Unified School District
accountant who supports the war, said he would have gladly shared his opinion in
the past, but no one bothered to ask.

"This was the first time somebody asked me," said Biag, who emigrated from the
Philippines in 1973.

The poll carries significant implications about how America is viewedaround the
world, said Steve Montiel, director of the Institute for Justice and Journalism
at the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication,
another partner in the poll.

"Because of 9/11 and because of the war in Iraq and now its aftermath, it's more
important than ever that we have some sense of how we're perceived around the
world," Montiel said. "One important window to the larger world is immigrant
communities."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
War support by immigrants
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 9, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN ID CARDS GAIN SUPPORT;
LEGISLATION INCLUDES PROVISION TO IMPROVE SECURITY MEASURES

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 511 words


A movement heralded by illegal immigrants who want all government agencies in
California to accept identification cards issued by foreign nations is gaining
swift support from state legislators.

The Assembly on Thursday approved a measure, by a 51-16 vote, that would
authorize state agencies to accept the cards, known as matriculas consulares by
Mexican officials. Ten days earlier, the Assembly passed a similar bill that
would affect cities and counties. The Senate is expected to consider the
legislation in the coming weeks.

The proposed laws are part of a nationwide movement by immigrants who lack other
official forms of identification needed to open bank accounts, acquire library
cards or sign up for city recreation classes. Although many cities and
government agencies in California have adopted resolutions to recognize the
cards over the past two years, including Santa Clara County's Board of
Supervisors, proponents are seeking statewide acceptance.

"It's prudent to ensure that human beings have a right to identify themselves
and that that identification card is considered valid by our state," said
Assemblyman Fabian Nunez, D-Los Angeles, who wrote AB 25. His bill would require
state agencies to accept the wallet-size ID cards unless they were issued by
governments known by the U.S. State Department to sponsorterrorism.

Critics of the cards, who want the federal government to tighten immigration
controls, say the documentation encourages people who are in the United States
illegally to stay.

"Our group certainly doesn't support this," said Carol Joyal, chairwoman of
Immigration Reform Network of Silicon Valley, which advocates allowing fewer
legal immigrants into the country and an end to illegal immigration. "We believe
the only real document should be the passport for foreign nationals," she said.

Most cards in circulation are issued at Mexico's consulates to Mexican citizens
who provide original documentation, such as a birth certificate. Other
countries, such as Guatemala and Argentina, also issue cards. In response to
criticism that the cards could be counterfeited or tampered with, AB 25 also
requires that any new cards be revamped to include a digital fingerprint, among
other security measures. The Consulate of Mexico in San Jose last year issued
46,168 matriculas consulares, and about 10,000 have been issued this year, said
spokesman Hugo Juarez Carrillo.

The card doesn't change a person's immigration status or provide government
benefits.

A separate but related measure, AB 522, written by Assemblyman Manny Diaz, D-San
Jose, would require every city and county to accept the card.

Diaz and Nunez said Thursday that they may consider merging their bills to
improve chances of passing the Senate and being signed by the governor.

"People are starting to realize that having a form of ID contributes to
everyone's security in the immigrant community and the public in general," said
Cary Sanders, a policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education
Network of San Jose.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ASSEMBLY BILL 25
Author: Fabian Nunez,
D-Los Angeles
What it would do: Require state agencies to accept photo identification cards
issued by other countries as valid ID. The nation issuing the card cannot be on
the list of countries known to sponsor terrorism, and the card must have
security provisions, such as a digital thumb print.
Status: Passed in the Assembly on Thursday; will be introduced in Senate.
ASSEMBLY BILL 522
Author: Manny Diaz,
D-San Jose
What it would do: Require every city and county, and its employees, to accept as
personal identification the consular ID cards issued by the Mexican government
to the extent permitted by U.S. federal law.
Status: Passed in the Assembly on Thursday; has been introduced in Senate.
Mercury News

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 12, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOX REJECTS LINKING OIL TO PACT ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: MEXICO


President Vicente Fox on Sunday joined a wave of other Mexican officials in
rejecting a U.S. congressional committee's call to link an agreement on
immigration to U.S. investment in Mexico's oil industry.

In a communique issued by Fox's office, the president noted that an immigration
agreement with the United States has been a priority for his administration,
which began in December 2000.

"But in no way will it accept negotiating that agreement in exchange for the
opening of Petroleos Mexicanos to foreign investment," he added.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WORLD IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 14, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GREEN CARD EXPIRATION DOESN'T AFFECT STATUS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 578 words


Q
I just discovered that the Resident Alien card (or green card) of my 93-year-old
father and 85-year-old mother expired on Dec. 14, 2002. When they exchanged
their old card for the new one in 1992, they didn't realize that the new card
had an expiration date. We heard it may be too late to get a renewal. Is that
true?

Eileen Fujikawa
Cupertino
A
Though their cards have expired, your parents are still lawful permanent
residents, according to David S. Wright, an immigration attorney in San
Francisco.

The card is a document that acts as a convenient form of proof of residency.
Just as your U.S. citizenship does not expire when you let your passport lapse,
your residency doesn't expire along with your green card, Wright said. However,
your parents probably will have to visit the Bureau of Citizenship and
Immigration Services (formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service), to
provide their fingerprints.

At this point, they may want to apply for citizenship rather than bother with
renewing the card. Wright suggests checking out the following BCIS link for
procedures at the San Jose
BCISoffice:http://www.bcis.gov/graphics/fieldoffices/sanjose/snjgcrenewal.htm

Q
I am a U.S. citizen who was married in Japan. I applied for a petition for my
husband about two months ago. How long is the wait for the visa that will allow
him to move to the United States.? In the meantime, can he travel to the United
States to visit?

Monica
Daly City
A
The California Service Center of the BCIS is taking approximately five months to
process an I-130 immigrant visa petition filed by a U.S. citizen on behalf of a
spouse, said immigration attorney Carolyn Choi of Los Altos.

Once the BCIS completes its part, the case will be handled by the U.S.
Department of State, which eventually will schedule an appointment for your
husband's immigrant visa interview at a consulate -- a process that could
takeanother five weeks to six months, or more, Choi said.

If your husband wants to come to the United States before then, and if he is a
Japanese national, he can apply for a visitor's visa waiver. He could, however,
encounter difficulty in obtaining it because consular officials, upon knowing
he's married to a U.S. citizen, could interpret his "visit" as an unlawful way
to move to the United States permanently while awaiting his paperwork to be
finalized, Choi said.

But he can try for the visa waiver anyway, Choi said. (The reason it's a
"waiver" and not a traditional "visa" is that the United States and Japan have a
reciprocal agreement that allows tourists to visit without a visa for up to 90
days.)

Finally, Choi said that people who fraudulently use a visitor visa, or a visa
waiver, to live in the United States in violation of the terms of that visa or
waiver would be ineligible to immigrate to the United States.

Immigration consultants: We've been hearing lately about private immigration
consultants who are accused by prosecutors of unscrupulous business practices.
We also know that a number of immigrants hire consultants without knowing much
about their qualifications or background -- and end up paying a steep price,
sometimes financially and sometimes by jeopardizing their immigration situation.

If you've had a detrimental experience with a consultant, we'd like to hear from
you. Briefly tell your story in an e-mail or telephone message, along with a
daytime phone number where we can reach you. Thanks.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 17, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TOLL RISES IN TEXAS MIGRANT TRAGEDY;
ANOTHER HEATSTROKE VICTIM IN HIGHWAY SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: JUAN A. LOZANO, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


The death toll from this week's botched smuggling attempt reached 19 on Friday
when an immigrant died at a hospital, two days after being pulled out of a
stifling semitrailer.

The 29-year-old man, believed to be from Honduras, died at DeTar Hospital
Navarro in Victoria, southwest of Houston, from complications from heatstroke.
The toll is believed to be the deadliest in recent U.S. history.

Also Friday, 18 suspected illegal immigrants were found alive in a
tractor-trailer at a truck stop not far from where the other victims were found.
None required hospitalization. They were turned over to immigration authorities
and the truck driver was taken into custody.

Wednesday, sheriff's deputies at a truck stop south of Victoria opened a trailer
with 17 bodies inside. With two deaths since then, the smuggling case's toll is
even higher than a 1987 incident in which 18 immigrants died in a rail car in
West Texas.

In initial autopsy reports, Travis County Medical Examiner Roberto Bayardo said
the victims died from dehydration, hyperthermia and suffocation. Four victims,
including a 5-year-old boy, may have suffocated under people on top of them.

"It's difficult to tell if they were dead at the time or they died as a result
of the piling up of the other bodies," Bayardo said.

The driver of the truck, Tyrone Williams, 32, of Schenectady, N.Y., told
authorities he struck a $2,500 deal with two men Tuesday to haul 16 immigrants
from the border town of Harlingen north into Texas. Instead, authorities said,
more than 100 men, women and children from Mexico and Central America were
loaded into the hot and virtually airless truck.

Williams was charged with trafficking in illegal immigrants. Authorities were
searching for three other suspects. They were also looking for 30 to 50 illegal
immigrants believed to have fled the trailer.

Defense attorney Craig Washington said he was looking into whether Williams was
properly advised of his rights and why he was questioned in a cold room without
anything to offer him warmth.

"If he made statements, one, they may not have been accurate and, two, they may
not have been of his own free will," Washington said.

U.S. Attorney Michael Shelby said he was confident Williams was properly advised
of his rights.

Also Friday, authorities in the Houston suburb of Sugar Land found 10 illegal
immigrants in the bed of a pickup truck. Police said the men were OK. And the
Border Patrol said it rescued 17 suspected immigrants from a railroad container
car Thursday near the Texas-New Mexico state line.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DAVID J. PHILLIP -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Tyrone Williams is taken to federal court Friday in Houston, where he was
charged with trafficking in illegal immigrants.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 2, 2003 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUILDING A HOME, AWAY FROM HOME;
IMMIGRANTS BUY MATERIALS HERE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 451 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Jose Antonio and Olga Lidia Mendoza, who migrated to California five years ago
with two young children and no travel documents, know it's too risky to venture
a trip back to their hometown in Mexico in this age of heightened security
alerts.

But when the family does make the return trip, their dream home will be waiting
for them, perched below a row of shady trees overlooking a valley in the mining
center of Pachuca.

The Mendozas, who make ends meet on Jose Antonio's $225 weekly salary as a sushi
chef at a Diamond Bar restaurant, are pioneers of an innovative cross-border
service that allows them to design and build their home in Mexico -- while
paying for building materials in Los Angeles.

The program by the Mexican cement company Cemex reflects the increased
competition by businesses and financial institutions to tap into the $10 billion
in cash that Mexican immigrants are expected to send home this year.

Furniture, home appliances and even groceries, all paid for in dollars and
delivered in Mexico, are some of the products Mexican companies are pitching to
the 23 million Mexicans and Mexican-Americans in the United States.

Traditionally, the direct financial assistance to family members in Mexico has
been delivered by wire transfer agencies, which charged fees as much as 15
percent. In recent years, with increased competition, rates have decreased to
about 5 percent.

At one of Cemex's four Los Angeles area branch offices, the Mendozas paid $315
last month for 20 sacks of cement and 400 concrete blocks. The next day, Olga
Lidia's mother, Gabriela Castillo, walked into a Pachuca hardware store and
picked up the order, which she delivered to a local carpenter who is building
the family's two-story home.

"The advantage is that I control the spending from here," Olga Lidia told the
Los Angeles Times. "Otherwise, I wire money home and, while mama is building the
house, she can grab some of the cash for herself."

Francisco Garza Zambrano, president of Cemex North America, said a company
survey a few years ago convinced him that much of Mexican immigrants'
hard-earned remittances were being squandered by high wire transfer fees and
relatives who dipped into the cash to pay for birthday parties and weddings.

Garza created the service known as Construmex to help steer remittance money
into home construction.

Since the service started in July 2001, Construmex has reported $2.5 million in
sales to 2,100 customers in California. Plans are under way to expand to Chicago
and Houston.

"It used to take four to five years to build these houses," Garza said. "Today,
with this project, it can take as little as 12 to 16 months."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: BOB CHAMBERLIN -- LOS ANGELES TIMES
The Mendozas go over building plans for their new two-story dwelling in Mexico
at their current home in Los Angeles.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 7, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MOST IMMIGRANTS TO U.S. ARE CHRISTIANS, RESEARCHERS REPORT

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: RELIGION & ETHICS; Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 104 words


Nearly two-thirds of new immigrants to the United States are Christian, mostly
Catholics coming from Latin America, according to government-sponsored research.

Forty-two percent of immigrants are Roman Catholic, 19 percent are Protestant
and 4 percent are Eastern Orthodox, according to a study of almost 1,000 adult
immigrants in 1996. Eight percent are Muslim, 4 percent are Buddhist, 3 percent
are Jewish, 3 percent are Hindu and 1 percent profess other religions.

The research was funded by the National Institutes of Health, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the National Science Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELIGION BRIEFS

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 10, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

3 EX-INS AGENTS GUILTY IN IMMIGRANT'S DEATH

BYLINE: From Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: TEXAS


A federal jury in Houston found three former U.S. immigration agents guilty
Monday of failing to get medical help for a Mexican citizen who was beaten
during a raid. The man was left a quadriplegic and died 11 months later.

The former deportation officers of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service were found guilty of "deliberate indifference to the serious medical
needs" of Serafin Olvera-Carrera, 47, who suffered a broken neck and wasn't
taken to a hospital for seven hours, according to federal prosecutors.

Olvera-Carrera, an illegal immigrant and father of five who had worked in the
United States as a roofer for nearly 25 years, was beaten during a roundupof
migrants in March 2001 and died at a Houston hospital in February 2002, the
victim of blunt force trauma to the neck, according to a medical examiner.

The former officers -- Richard Gonzales, 37; Carlos Reyna, 43; and Louis Rey
Gomez, 37 -- are scheduled for sentencing in September.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 11, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUSBAND'S CITIZENSHIP EXPEDITES WIFE'S STATUS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS STAFF, COLUMNISTS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 596 words


Q
I filed an immigrant petition for my spouse in July 2000. I'm now waiting to
take my citizenship oath. Will my citizenship cause delays or problems to the
petition I filed for my wife?
Daniel Vitin
San Jose
A
Once you become a citizen, you will shave off five to eight years (depending on
what country your wife is from) from the expected waiting time for your wife's
green card, according to Katy Henrikson, an attorney and immigration program
director for the Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto.

If your wife currently resides in the United States, you should submit your
naturalization certificate along with a completed "Adjustment of Status" (AOS)
packet that includes many forms, including another family petition, and other
supporting documents, Henrikson said.

Your wife will be entitled to an employment authorization card as soon as the
AOS packet is accepted for processing, usually within a few weeks. You both will
be called into the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services office for an
interview six to 12 months later. If all goes well, your wife will be approved
for her green card when you complete the interview. The green card should arrive
within a year.

If your wife lives outside the United States, you'll need to complete "consular
processing" forms. The waiting time for your wife's green card is about the
same, but she must wait outside the country, Henrikson said. There are several
reliable, affordable agencies that can help with the AOS or Consular Processing.
For Santa Clara County residents, contact Catholic Charities at (408) 468-0100.
Q
I have a 9-year-old daughter who is living in China with my parents. My mother's
health is getting worse. She had to stay in the hospital for one month recently
because of her heart condition, so it is really difficult for her to continue to
take care of my daughter. I am a U.S. citizen, and I already applied for my
daughter's green card one year ago. I am still waiting. Is there anything I can
do to bring her here sooner?
Lixia Gao
Santa Clara
A
There are a few things that might be delaying the petition for your daughter,
said Lucy Lee, an immigration lawyer in San Francisco with Fallon, Bixby, Cheng
& Lee.

Once the I-130 petition has been approved by the BCIS, you will have to complete
necessary paperwork from the National Visa Center and the U.S. Embassy in
Guangzhou.

Lee said there may be other issues, such as your ability to financially support
your daughter. The BCIS may require an affidavit of support from a co-sponsor.
Your marital status could also be a factor.

In addition, security background checks have delayed the processing times of all
immigration matters, even for children. There is no telling how long security
checks can take, and nobody in the government can answer that question, Lee
said.

Assuming you don't have any of these issues, Lee suggests you contact your
congressional representative, Rep. Mike Honda.

Your situation is a compelling case of family reunification, involving a medical
crisis abroad that would affect the well-being of a child of a U.S. citizen, Lee
said.

Q
Can an immigrant -- who is not yet a permanent resident but who has
authorization to work -- receive unemployment benefits if he's laid off?

David
San Jose
A
Yes, said Marielena Hincapie, a staff attorney with the National Immigration Law
Center in Oakland. Employees with valid work permits have the same right to
claim benefits with the California Employment Development Department as do
residents and citizens, she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 11, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEASURE SEEKS HELP FOR INS SCAM VICTIMS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


A state Senate judiciary committee approved a resolution Tuesday that asks the
federal government to suspend deportation proceedings against hundreds of Bay
Area Korean immigrants who were caught up in a green card scheme involving a
former INS official.

The resolution, written by Assembly members Manny Diaz, D-San Jose, and Carol
Liu, D-Pasadena, will now go before the Senate.

"It is unjust and extremely difficult for them to prove their innocence because
their documents were burned by the former INS supervisor that defrauded them,"
Diaz said in a statement.

In a scheme that spanned a dozen years, a veteran official with the former
Immigration and Naturalization Service district office in San Jose took about
$500,000 in bribes from immigration consultants in exchange for green cards
issued to 275 Korean immigrants.

Many of the immigrants, who are now facing deportation, have said they were
unaware of the bribe-for-green cards scheme.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 14, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FEAR TAX HIKES, PROGRAM CUTS;
HOW THREE FAMILIES WILL COPE
THE SAN JOSE CITY COUNCIL ON TUESDAY IS POISED TO APPROVE A BUDGET THAT HAS THE
HIGHEST DEFICIT ON RECORD BUT STILL MAKES WHOPPING CUTS IN COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL
SERVICES. SANTA CLARA COUNTY SUPERVISORS ON MONDAY WILL BEGIN A WEEK OF
CONTENTIOUS BUDGET HEARINGS. HERE ARE THE STORIES OF THREE SAN JOSE FAMILIES
GRAPPLING WITH THE EFFECTS OF STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS DROWNING IN RED INK.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 645 words


You couldn't blame Luis and Lizeth Vazquez if they decided to pack up their
American dreams and return to Mexico.

When they immigrated more than a year ago, Luis Vazquez quickly found work even
as Silicon Valley melted down. They thought they had beaten the odds.

But now he has lost his full-time construction job, and the Vazquezes worry that
budget woes will deprive them of things that eased their transition to anew
country -- English as a Second Language classes, a cheap and efficient bus
system, subsidized day care and the ability of social service agencies to help.

In his native Jalisco, Vazquez, the son of a cattle rancher, had a good job as a
truck driver, delivering Coca-Cola and Frito-Lay products. His wife had finished
about half her work toward a university degree in international business and was
a secretary for a large company.

When they got to San Jose, where many of Luis Vazquez's relatives live, they
rented a room in a house near downtown for $500. Vazquez, 26, got two jobs. From
7 a.m. to 4 p.m., he worked for a company that built concrete foundations. He
went home, washed up, ate dinner and then worked until about 11 p.m. in an
Italian restaurant as a dishwasher. The family was getting by on $350 a week.

Lizeth Vazquez, 22, took ESL classes at Sacred Heart Community Service in San
Jose. She also volunteered in the Clothes Closet, where the social service
agency hands out used clothes to the poor.

But two months ago, with their first child 5 months old, her husband was laid
off from his construction job. He now makes about $150 a week washing dishes.

So for the Vazquezes, government cutbacks couldn't have come at a more dire
time. They particularly dread increases in bus fares, set to take effect Aug. 1
-- a daily express pass will go from $6 to $9. With just one old vehicle, Lizeth
Vazquez depends on the bus for shopping or taking the baby to the doctor while
her husband is looking for work.

She said she'll try to get around the increase "by combining my errands into one
trip." She also worries about whether she'll be able to take ESL classes if cuts
force waiting lists to grow.

"I had to quit ESL classes when my baby was born and can't look for work because
Luis Elias is still in diapers, and I can't find a babysitter," said Lizeth
Vazquez, who would eventually like to return to college and doesn't think she'll
be able to without low-cost day care.

Luckily, the couple bought a 1987 Plymouth van from a friend by paying him $400
a month for five months after they first arrived here. They pay only $7 yearly
in car tax, which will increase to $20 under Gov. Gray Davis' proposed budget.
But they say they're watching their pennies so closely that they'll notice the
increase and Davis' proposed half-cent sales tax increase.

The Vazquezes are applying for an emergency-housing grant from Sacred Heart so
they don't lose their room. They also rely on food from the agency, which gets
1.8 million pounds of food each year from Second Harvest. But the food bank is
also seeing a huge increase in demand.

Sacred Heart, a San Jose institution for three decades, has made out better than
many agencies because it depends on government for only 11 percent of its
budget. Still, its annual budget will drop to $2.6 million from $2.8 million.
And the agency is now serving from 1,500 to 2,000 people a day -- about twice
the number as two years ago -- who tap into the same resources the Vazquez
family needs.

Larger social service agencies such as Catholic Charities -- which gets 56
percent of funding from government -- are taking more drastic hits.

Amid the gloom, though, the Vazquezes are hopeful that the economy will turn
around soon. "Lizeth and I think of our son and his life ahead," Luis Vazquez
said. "That's all that's important."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: California's Budget Crunch
LOW-LEVEL INCOME
The Vazquez family
The members: Luis, 26, and Lizeth, 22, were born and raised in Jalisco, Mexico.
Luis Elias was born seven months ago in San Jose. Luis is the son of a cattle
rancher; Lizeth studied international business in college.
What they make: Luis earns $150 a week as a dishwasher after losing his
construction job. That's $7,800 a year. He had been making $350 weekly, or
$18,200 annually.
Their biggest budget concerns: Increase in bus fares and sales tax, loss of
social service agency funding.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
The Vazquezes, who came from Mexico more than a year ago, fear it will be even
more difficult adjusting to their new life.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               June 14, 2003 Saturday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

GROUPS STAGE RALLY IN S.F. AGAINST DEPORTATIONS;
MUSLIM AND MIDDLE EASTERN MEN TARGETED

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 589 words


A number of Bay Area civil rights and immigrant advocacy groups rallied outside
the federal immigration office in San Francisco on Friday to protest the pending
deportation of more than 13,000 Muslim and Middle Eastern men found to be living
illegally in the United States during a national security registration program.

"What the government is doing is targeting immigrants instead of targeting
terrorists," Jayashri Srikantiah, an attorney with the Northern California
chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, said to a group of about 50
people, across the street from the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, the former Immigration and Naturalization Service, in downtown San
Francisco.

Srikantiah and others repeated their criticism of a national anti-terrorism
program that required men and boys older than 16 from 25 primarily Muslim, Arab
and Middle Eastern countries to register with the government. They were required
to report to local offices of the BCIS to be fingerprinted and photographed as
part of a system designed to monitor the comings and goings of U.S. visitors.

In all, more than 82,000 people registered. About 16 percent, or more
than13,000, were found in violation of their visas and placed in deportation
proceedings, according to a government report issued last week.

"It doesn't seem unjust to place in deportation proceedings those who are in
violation of the terms of their visas," said Sharon Rummery, a BCIS spokeswoman
in San Francisco.

Rummery said everyone who received deportation notices from the special
registration program will get a chance to "tell the immigration judge why they
shouldn't be deported."

Esam Jalboush, 34, a Jordanian-Palestinian who has been living in the United
States since he was 19, was among many Bay Area residents caught in the dragnet
and ordered deported. But rather than fight the deportation, Jalboush, who came
on a student visa in 1988, said he will leave the country voluntarily.

Accompanied by his lawyer, Jalboush, a supermarket store manager in San
Francisco, picked up his expired Jordanian passport at the BCIS office Friday
afternoon. Officials had confiscated his passport when he registered in March.
He was detained for 24 hours and released on a $15,000 bond.

He has agreed to leave the United States and is bound this weekend for Montreal,
where he has a sister. He said he will fly into Detroit and enter Canada at
Windsor, where he hopes to get political asylum.

"There is no justice here for me; that's why I've chosen to leave rather than
fight," said Jalboush, who said he fled Jordan because he was persecuted as a
Palestinian.

He had a green card application pending in March when he was placed in
deportation. He had applied for a green card in 2000. An immigration official
found that after his student visa expired in 1993, Jalboush was out of status --
in the United States illegally for about a year. He then married an American
citizen.

"Now a decade later, the government is deporting him for that violation. How is
that good for the country's national security?" said Banafshe Akhlaghi, an
immigration lawyer in San Francisco representing Jalboush and about about three
dozen other people facing deportation.

Akhlaghi spoke at the protest before accompanying Jalboush to the BCIS office.

"The targeting of immigrants and Muslims has created a culture of fear and
helplessness," said Samina Faheem, a member of the American Muslim Alliance, a
national non-profit group in Fremont.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Also Ran: page 1B Morning Final edition
PROGRAM DETAILS
A national anti-terrorism program required boys and men ages 16 to 25 to
register with the government. These men were primarily of Muslim, Arab or Middle
Eastern descent.
16%
Of the 82,000 that registered, more than 13,000 were found in violation of their
visas and placed in deportation proceedings.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
SAN FRANCISCO: Jayashri Srikantiah, an attorney with the Northern California
chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, addresses the crowd Friday during
a rally protesting the pending deportations of more than 13,000 Muslim and
Middle Eastern men.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               June 14, 2003 Saturday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

BREAK FOR JAILED ASYLUM SEEKER;
S.F. FEDERAL APPEALS COURT ALLOWED TO REVIEW 'SECRET EVIDENCE' IN CASE
THE FORMER UNION CITY SIKH ACTIVIST AND HIS WIFE ARE ACCUSED OF ENGAGING IN
TERRORIST ACTIVITIES IN INDIA.

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 539 words


The federal government has agreed to allow California's federal appeals court to
review classified documents that it used to deny political asylum and detain a
former Bay Area Sikh activist since 1997.

In response to a court order last month to unseal so-called "secret evidence,"
the government has promised to deliver the documents to the 9th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in San Francisco by the end of this month, according to
documents filed with the court.

But hopeful as it sounds for the case of Harpal Singh, a former Union City
resident who is being detained in Yuba County Jail, the impact of the
government's decision is limited because it does not allow Singh or his lawyer a
chance to review and rebut the allegations, lawyers familiar with the case said
this week.

"It's good the judges can make an impartial review. They can say this looks
good, this looks bad, and this has nothing to do with national security and it
ought to be released," said Kit Gage, president of National Coalition to Protect
Political Freedom, a Washington, D.C., group that has monitored cases involving
use of secret evidence. "It's the first step. But it's notgood enough."

In similar cases around the country, immigrants detained by the former
Immigration and Naturalization Service were eventually released after the courts
reviewed secret evidence, she said.

A spokesman for the Department of Justice declined to comment on Singh's case.

Last month, judges of the 9th Circuit Court gave the government 15 days to
produce 30 pages of classified documents in order to consider Singh's request
for a second review of his asylum application.

Singh, a lawyer from Punjab, India, and an important figure in the international
movement to establish a Sikh state in the country, sought asylum in the United
States because he and his wife feared persecution if forced to return to India.
His wife, Rajwinder Saur, was not detained and now lives in Seattle.

An immigration judge in 1999 denied asylum to the couple, claiming that they
engaged in terrorist activities. But the judge also ruled that they could not be
deported back to India because of the likelihood that Singh would be tortured.

Singh and his wife denied government allegations that they engaged in terrorist
activities related to their effort to establish Khalistan.

In a telephone interview from jail this week, Singh said he remains concerned
despite the government's decision.

"It's not fair I'm not being allowed to see it," he said. "The government is
telling me I conducted terrorist activity but I don't know what they're basing
those allegations on."

Robert Jobe, a San Francisco lawyer who represents Singh, is challenging the
government's assertion -- based on classified documents -- that Singh poses a
threat to national security.

Singh's case is important because the use of secret evidence goes to the heart
of fairness in the American justice system, said David Cole, a constitutional
scholar at Georgetown University who has represented people detained on secret
evidence.

"The reality is you can't defend against what you can't see," Cole said. "Secret
evidence raises very serious due process and fundamental fairness concerns."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Also Ran: page 1B Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               June 19, 2003 Thursday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

RADIO COMPANY SUES COUPLE OVER WEB SITE PARODYING CONSERVATIVE SHOCK JOCK

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 206 words

DATELINE: SANTA CRUZ


The company that employs shock jock Michael Savage is suing a Santa Cruz couple
over a Web site they run that has been lampooning the conservative radio host
for the past year.

Illinois-based Talk Radio Network, which syndicates Savage, filed a $500,000
lawsuit naming Thomas and Gunilla Leavitt and the owners of two other Web sites.
The suit alleges the sites made false and defamatory statements about Savage.

The suit claims that sponsor Culligan International of Northbrook, Ill.,
canceled a $100,000 contract after getting e-mail from Web site owners and
readers of the sites.

Savage hasn't commented on the suit. In a radio broadcast, however, he described
the Web site operators as "stinking rats who hide in the sewers."

Savage has built up a large following, while antagonizing liberals with such
messages as "make tax cuts permanent, close the borders now, deport all illegal
immigrants now, eliminate bilingual education in all states, require health
tests for all recent foreign-born immigrants" and "eliminate as many entitlement
programs as possible."

Thomas Leavitt, a one-time city council candidate, said he is not worried about
the suit "because I'm just exercising First Amendment rights."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area Briefing
New From Around The Region

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 8, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SANTA CLARA COPS NAB IMMIGRANT ON 'WANTED' LIST

BYLINE: MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 515 words


Santa Clara police nabbed one of the Top 10 "Most Wanted Fugitive Criminal
Aliens" in the country this week, but federal officials couldn't say Monday what
distinguished the man from thousands of other immigrants with criminal
backgrounds who are fleeing deportation orders.

An officer spotted Datinder Singh Munder on Sunday sitting under a tree at
Woodward and Aldo avenues weeks after immigration officials had come to town
looking for the 37-year-old native of India.

Munder had been convicted in 1995 on two counts of assault with a firearm. After
serving time in prison, he was ordered deported but vanished.

While federal immigration officials and the Santa Clara police touted his
arrest, immigration-rights advocates declared the Top 10 list of criminal aliens
a farce that overstates the danger illegal immigrants like Munder pose. The
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement created the list in May to
intensify publicity on immigration outlaws.

About 80,000 people have been convicted of crimes meriting deportation orders
but have vanished before they could be deported. Immigration officials say the
Top 10 list constitutes the most dangerous.

Those in the Top 10 include murderers, rapists and drug offenders. Immigration
officials wouldn't offer details on Munder's convictions, citing privacy
concerns.

Because immigration violations are civil offenses, the full complaint against
Munder isn't publicly available, said Sharon Rummery, Bay Area spokeswoman for
the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Those on the list are not the 10 most dangerous criminals in America, a separate
list compiled by the FBI. And immigration officials say Munder -- who also goes
by the name Patinder Munder Singh -- is not a threat to national security,
according to Santa Clara police.

Munder's case was unusual in that a local law enforcement agency actively sought
to arrest someone on immigration charges -- an anomaly in the Bay Area, where
many agencies shy away from such actions.

Immigrant-rights advocates say the Top 10 list is more hype than an authentic
tool to protect the public's safety.

"One of the concerns that we have as immigrant-rights advocates is that the
administration is trying to suggest that immigrants are criminals and
terrorists," said Philip Hwang, staff attorney for the San Francisco-based
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights. "The danger of Top 10 lists is that it
reinforces the idea among some that immigrants are endangering this country when
in fact they are keeping the country afloat."

Immigration officials came to Santa Clara several weeks ago looking for Munder,
said Santa Clara police detective Kurt Clarke. When they couldn't find him, they
asked Santa Clara police to keep an eye out for him. A federal warrant
authorized his arrest.

Santa Clara police created a flier that was distributed among patrol officers
and caught the eye of officer Kenia Soto, who recognized Munder from another
incident a month ago. While on patrol Sunday, Soto saw Munder and arrested him
on the immigration charges.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 9, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AUSTRIAN ACTOR IN MEXICO HAS 3 WAYS TO WORK IN U.S.

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 618 words


Q
I am an American citizen, born in San Jose, and my husband is an Austrian
citizen who has lived in Mexico as an immigrant for 61 years.

After living in Mexico for 36 years, I moved to San Jose this year to take a
job. My husband still lives in Mexico, and he does not plan on moving to the
United States. He is a professional actor, and is a member of the actors' union
in Mexico.

Based on my citizenship, can my husband obtain permission to work as an actor in
the United States?

Joan Brodovsky
San Jose
A
Your husband, because he is married to a U.S. citizen, is considered an
"immediate relative" who qualifies for residency based on the family-based
immigration process. Your petition for a green card on his behalf would be
straightforward, according to Carl Falstrom, an immigration lawyer in San
Francisco.

If he becomes a permanent resident, your husband could live and work in the
United States for the rest of his life. However, becoming a permanent resident
is not a step to be taken lightly, Falstrom said. It requires an intent to make
the United States one's permanent home, and your husband may be required to pay
U.S. taxes.

If your husband does not plan to live permanently in the United States, or does
not want the potential tax liability of becoming a green card holder, applying
for a green card may not be the best option, Falstrom said.

He may consider a work visa. The main advantage to most work visas is that they
are limited in duration and purpose. For example, many accomplished actors use
"O" visas to come to the United States to appear in movies, on television or in
theater. That visa, however, requires a sponsor, Falstrom said.

Another way is for your husband to apply for an E-2 visa, which is for citizens
of certain countries (including Austria) that have commercial treaties with the
United States. It allows people to come to the United States to develop or
direct an enterprise in which they have made a substantial investment, Falstrom
said.

Your husband could set up a U.S. enterprise related to his acting profession,
make an investment in it, and apply for an E-2 visa, Falstrom said. This would
allow him to spend limited amounts of time in the United States without becoming
a permanent resident, he said.

Immigration official promises relief: Eduardo Aguirre, newly confirmed by the
U.S. Senate as director of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services,
answered questions about his agency at a political gathering last month. His
comments came after a speech at the annual convention of the National
Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials in Phoenix.

Here is an edited version of Aguirre's exchange with a representative of the
Mercury News and other media:

Q
What is the BCIS doing that its predecessor, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, did not do to reduce the backlog of applications?

A
We launched electronic filing; in just a little less than four weeks we've had
10,000 applications that come directly, electronically, to us. What that does is
get people from spending a lot of face-to-face time. That allows my employees
more time to reduce the backlog. That is just one of many, many things we are
doing.

Q
What is your goal for expediting processing times for adjustment of status
petitions (I-130) and naturalization applications (N-400)?

A
Our goal in the immediate future is to reduce and eliminate the backlog, really
-- to reduce the turnaround time to within six months for all applications. Most
applications for citizenship right now have a one-year backlog and have a
one-year -- more or less -- waiting period. I'm committed to getting that down
to six months.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                July 11, 2003 Friday NORTHERN CALIFORNIA EDITION

FILIPINO IMMIGRANTS WIN FRAUD AWARD;
NURSING HOME BROKE PACT TO OBTAIN LEGAL DOCUMENTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 404 words


A federal jury on Thursday awarded more than $250,000 to five Filipino
immigrants, who sued a Santa Cruz nursing home that hired them with the promise
of helping them obtain working permits and legal immigration status in the
United States.

The seven-member jury in U.S. District Court in San Jose found the nursing home,
Pleasant Care of Northern California, and two of its employees guilty of breach
of contract, fraud, and violating California laws on the practice of immigration
consulting.

The scheme began in 1999 and involved the hiring of immigrants such as Zora
Noarbe, who came to the United States with her husband, Carlo de los Reyes, in
1999 on legal visitor's visas. Pleasant Care hired the couple as nurse's
assistants, paying them minimum wage, and promised to obtain their legal work
documents.

Pleasant Care employees Olivia de Mesa Linayao and George Santos Linayao also
charged the immigrants $2,800 to obtain Social Security cards, and for other
so-called "fees" to file immigration paperwork, according to court documents.
The paperwork, including fraudulent petitions for work visas, was never filed
with the federal immigration agency.

James F. Geary, an attorney representing Pleasant Care, declined to comment
Thursday.

"I know this is happening to others, and I hope this case helps them," said
Noarbe, 30, a registered nurse from Santa Cruz, and one of the five immigrants
who sued the nursing home.

The nursing home is under investigation by the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement for allegedly hiring undocumented immigrants. In exchange for their
cooperation with federal investigators, Noarbe and the other immigrants involved
in the civil suit will get legal immigration status.

This is not the first time the Linayaos have been accused of fraud. The couple,
who are also immigrants from the Philippines, pleaded guilty last year in
federal court to various counts of mail fraud, obstruction of federal
proceedings, and hiring undocumented immigrants for a similar nursing home
operation in Sacramento. They received probation and are facing deportation.

On Thursday, the San Jose jury gave each of the five immigrants who sued
Pleasant Care awards ranging from $40,000 to $58,000.

"They came to this country to have a better life and basically she betrayed
them," juror Matt Hauckes, a carpenter from San Jose, said of Olivia Linayao.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 3B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 23, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PANEL BACKS KOREAN VICTIMS;
RIGHTS COMMISSION OPPOSES DEPORTATION

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 255 words


The Santa Clara County Human Rights Commission threw its official support
Tuesday behind a call to suspend the pending deportation of scores of Korean
immigrants who claim they were the innocent victims of a green-card scheme
between a corrupt government official and immigration consultants.

In approving two motions on the matter, the commission in effect recommended
that the county's board of supervisors pass a resolution similar to one approved
recently by the state Assembly and Senate, asking the federal government and
U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft to suspend deportation of the Korean
immigrants.

"To me, this is a no brainer; they're punishing the victims," Commissioner
Johnny Khamis said.

In a scheme that lasted at least 12 years, a veteran official of the former
Immigration and Naturalization Service, Leland Dwayne Sustaire, took bribes from
immigration consultants used by the Koreans, in exchange for green cards. Both
Sustaire and the consultants were convicted of fraud in federal court. The
immigrants, many of whom had legitimate claims to green cards, said they were
not aware of the scheme.

Last year, the INS, now known as the Bureau of Immigration and Citizenship
Services, began deportation proceedings against the immigrants.

Since then, the state Legislature, Bay Area legislators in Washington and a
number of community groups have rallied on their behalf. The Bay Area chapter of
the Korean American Coalition asked the human rights commission to consider the
resolution.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 2, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WORRIES ABOUT FOREIGN STUDENTS;
SOME NAMES ARE NOT IN SECURITY DATABASE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 676 words


Hundreds of colleges and universities around the country did not meet Friday's
deadline to register all international students in a new government database,
prompting worries among Bay Area school administrators that some students would
be turned away at airports.

Officials at some local schools scrambled through Thursday night to put the
names and addresses of students into the Student and Exchange Visitor
Information System that was created after it was revealed that some Sept. 11
hijackers held student visas.

"Do we feel good about it? No. Is it a fun thing? No," said Helen Stevens,
director of international programs and services at San Jose State University,
where 1,400 of its 30,000 students are on visas to study in the United States.
"It's all consuming."

San Jose State, Stanford and Santa Clara universities are among 241 educational
institutions in the Bay Area that met Friday's deadline, according to the Bureau
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The agency did not disclose how many of
the nation's 600 schools that did not meet the deadline are in the Bay Area.
About 6,000 schools across the country are now certified to have met the
deadline.

There were no reports of international students denied entry at San Francisco
International Airport on Friday. But some Bay Area school administrators, at the
request of immigration officials, were on standby viatelephone all day, bracing
for calls from airport immigration inspectors.

"Everything is going well," said Chris Bentley, an immigration bureau spokesman.
"We took an antiquated, paper-driven system and now we have a computerized
system that can be accessed in real time."

The agency Friday dispatched agents to seven major U.S. airports, including San
Francisco, where 70 percent of all international students enter. The agents were
on hand alongside immigration inspectors to review and resolve problem cases.

Now when students arrive at a U.S. port of entry, an immigration inspector will
review their documents and check whether their names appear in the database,
which now contains data on 1.3 million international students in the U.S.,
Bentley said.

Government agents are making special accommodations for students who might have
been mistakenly left out of the database or students whose schools are still
working to input the information, Bentley said. In both cases, immigration
inspectors will call school officials on the spot and verify a student's
documents.

"We haven't had any calls," said Ted Goode, director of Services for
International Students and Scholars at the University of California-Berkeley.

Goode said that he and his staff completed the data entry of about 2,500 foreign
students Thursday afternoon. In April, Goode and other education officials
around the country reported pervasive and major technical problems with the
database. Documents were printed in error, the system generated mistakes and it
lost data.

"One of our fears is that we will in fact misinterpret or miscommunicate
something that will do harm to a student," Goode said.

Sarah McGregor, director of the English language program at San Jose State, met
25 arriving college students from Tokyo on Friday morning at San Francisco
International Airport.

"The kids said the lines were long but there were no problems with the
inspectors," she said.

Arriving summer students from Asia said the immigration inspection was
relatively hassle-free.

"It was very simple, but I had a difficult time understanding because of my
limited English," said Kensuke Ohta, 20, a student from Sophia University in
Tokyo, who is going to study English at Santa Clara University.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
CUTOFF DATE
600
Schools around the nation that failed to meet the national deadline to have
international students' information put into the new database.
241
San Jose State, Santa Clara and Stanford universities are among the institutions

 in the Bay Area that met the Friday deadline.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 26, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ARE EASY FRAUD TARGETS;
CONSULTANTS SHOULD HOLD STATE LICENSES AND BE SUBJECT TO FEDERAL GUIDELINES

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 515 words


Undocumented immigrants are easy prey.

That vulnerability has inspired growing numbers of shady immigration consultants
who bilk immigrants out of hard-earned cash only to file fraudulent documents or
who fail to provide any services at all, as stories in Monday's and today's
Mercury News show.

Hairstylists go through more rigorous training and licensing than immigration
consultants, who offer to help immigrants with the confusing process of work
permits, green cards and citizenship. Federal guidelines are needed to establish
uniform requirements nationally and all consultants should hold a state license
-- or be shut down.

Tighter controls would help curb widespread fraud. In addition to an onslaught
of cases in immigration gateway cities -- Chicago, Miami, Los Angeles and New
York -- corrupt consultants are cropping up in not-so-obvious places, including
Atlanta, New Orleans and Denver.

Faced with the same issues, Canadian officials have taken a more aggressive
approach, including requiring that consultants meet educational and character
standards and obtain professional liability insurance. They also plan to create
a compensation fund for fraud victims.

California requires consultants to post a $50,000 bond and prohibits them from
dispensing legal advice. But stricter licensing procedures would allow the state
to require training, do background checks and make it easier to crack down on
fraud.

In Santa Clara County, which has one of the more impressive records for catching
consultant fraud, the district attorney's office also advocates extending the
statute of limitations in these fraud cases from one year to four, and requiring
the secretary of state to notify the district when bonds are canceled or
expired.

That's a good start, but more needs to happen. The Citizenship and Immigration
Services bureau (formerly Immigration and Naturalization Services) should make
the system for applying for permits and citizenship easier to navigate. Making
application forms for green cards, work permits and citizenship easily available
in languages other than English is a solid start. (President Clinton's executive
order 13166 issued in August 2000 requires access to federal programs in
languages other than English, but that is not widely enforced.)

To its credit, the bureau offers help in other ways, including sponsoring
community workshops. But many undocumented immigrants are afraid to use those
resources because of a deep distrust of the government. That's where similar
programs run by immigrant advocacy groups and church support systems play a key
role in community outreach.

Many of the undocumented immigrants using these consultants have legitimate
claims for legal residency. They have built their lives here and have
contributed to the community. As Karyn Sinunu, Santa Clara County's assistant
district attorney puts it: "Their children are going to school here, they go to
our churches, they're employees working here . . . and frankly, they're a part
of our community. Nobody should be exploited -- we should care."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO -- MERCURY NEWS
An undocumented Salinas farmworker watches television on his day off. He
couldface deportation because federal officials have questioned his paperwork,
which was submitted by a consultant.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 26, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

275 FRAUD VICTIMS ARE STILL WAITING

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 197 words


The 275 Korean immigrants living in the Bay Area who unwittingly found
themselves snagged in an immigration consultant fraud scheme continue to wait to
see if they will be deported.

Apparently without their knowledge, the four consultants they hired paid INS
supervisor Leland Sustaire $500,000 in bribes for the fraudulent green cards.
Sustaire served a house arrest term and paid a fine; the consultants served jail
terms; the immigrants are still waiting to hear if they will be deported.

Although most of the immigrants would legally qualify for green cards, Sustaire
admitted to destroying documents -- making it harder for the immigrants to make
their case.

Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren and others have asked for a reprieve for the Koreans,
many of whom have lived in the Bay Area for more than a decade. Lofgren said
Monday her calls and letters to Asa Hutchinson, who oversees border and
transportation security, asking for a case-by-case review in the matter have
gone unanswered.

The immigrants -- businessmen, pastors and engineers among them -- continue to
wait for someone to grant them absolution instead of punishing them for the
crimes of others.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: You can reach Undersecretary for Border and Transportation Security Asa
Hutchinson at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Washington, D.C. 20528,
or by phone at (202) 282-8000

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 29, 2003 Friday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

ARREST MADE IN ANTHRAX CASE;
SAN MATEO MAN FACES U.S. CHARGE

BYLINE: JOSHUA L. KWAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 285 words


A 32-year-old San Mateo man was arrested Thursday for allegedly mailing a letter
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service in San Francisco that contained a
white powder he labeled "antrax," the U.S. Attorney's Office announced.

Mohammed Lateef was charged with one count of threatening to use a biological
agent as a weapon, which carries a maximum penalty of life imprisonment and a
fine of $250,000.

According to the U.S. Attorney's Office, Lateef sent the letter around April 10,
2002. The letter mentioned anthrax, antipathy toward Israel and America, and
Al-Qaida. The white powder included in the letter was not anthrax, said
Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Jacobs.

Jacobs declined to provide other specifics about the case but said that Lateef
is a naturalized citizen from Fiji and that he was released on a $100,000 bail
secured by a house he owns in San Mateo.

Lateef's attorney could not be found for comment. A message left at Lateef's
home Thursday evening was not returned.

U.S. District Court Judge Marilyn Hall Patel will set a court schedule on Sept.
8.

A spokeswoman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is
the renamed INS, declined to comment on Thursday's arrest, which was the
culmination of a yearlong investigation by the U.S. Federal Protective Service
and the FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force.

In May 2002, a 33-year-old Oakland man was arrested for allegedly mailing an
anthrax threat to U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft.

That letter was found at the U.S. Postal Service Processing Center in Cheyenne,
Wyo., on Dec. 17, 2001, when the envelope burst open and a white powdery
substance spilled out at the postal facility.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 29, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CRIME AGAINST LAWBREAKERS STILL A CRIME

BYLINE: L.A. CHUNG, MERCURY NEWS STAFF COLUMNIST

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 641 words


They prey on the uneducated. The hopeful. The working stiffs.

So it merits some applause that Santa Clara County leads Northern California in
investigating immigration consultants suspected of defrauding immigrants,
especially those without legal documents.

Yet I wasn't surprised that some readers reacted negatively to this week's
Mercury News series about unregulated immigration consulting, as though it is
wrong for prosecutors to investigate crimes committed against people who may be
breaking the law by being here.

As much as we are a country of laws, we seem to have an unequal sense of how
they should be applied.

In truth, fraud is fraud, and a con is a con.

People I know -- hard-working, good folk -- have been bilked by storefront
consultants because they badly want to legalize their immigration status or
upgrade from working permit to permanent residency. They know a congressman,
these consultants said. A congressman can't do anything about your case, so
don't listen to them, we said.

Despite being warned, they did listen, because the consultants seemed nice,
caring, trustworthy. It is the classic method of the con. They attended the same
church and were recommended by other members of the congregation.

Why not regulation?

And of course, the consultant did little except take their money and possibly
jeopardize what legal chance they did have. The people I know work, pay taxes,
and have raised children who have grown up to be churchgoing and clean-living. A
thin line separates them from gaining residency, for lack of good legal help.

So we have state laws regulating manicurists whose malpractice of their craft
can give you a serious infection. Why shouldn't there be regulation for
immigration consultants whose malpractice causes harm?

Probably because more of us can relate to the risk of fungal infections than we
can to the class of people affected by unscrupulous immigration consultants or
others.

In truth, we pretend we don't know those who care for our children, maintain our
yards, work on construction crews or process poultry into neat packets of
chicken parts. We care less about them because we don't know them.

We care less about crimes committed against homeless people sleeping under
bridges or against prostitutes, even when the perpetrators are the police. We
care less about treatment of kids in juvenile hall.

We care that there is justice for the Laci Petersons of the world but less so
for the Evelyn Hernandezes or other murdered women whose lives were less than
picture-perfect. We raise an eyebrow when a pedophile priest is murdered in his
jail cell but aren't sure what we think. His actions were reprehensible. But any
murder is a crime, right?

In truth, we like laws and prosecution when it suits us, for whom it suits us.

If unscrupulous immigration consultants weren't conducting this fraud,
it'slikely they'd be engaged in another type. In another kind of con. So that's
why we should care.

Losing something else

We are a nation of laws. We pride ourselves in being largely a law-abiding
populace in which no one is above the law, no matter how highly, or how lowly,
placed.

And if we value that, then a crime against someone who has himself committed a
crime doesn't negate the crime. Otherwise, we lose something along the way.

I found myself reflecting briefly when I heard about the former Rev. John J.
Geoghan, bound, gagged and strangled in a Massachusetts prison by a homophobic
inmate already in prison for murder. Geoghan's case broke open the pattern of
sexual abuse coverups in the Roman Catholic Church, and nearly 150 people had
came forward as victims.

It wasn't a horrible thing, I thought.

And almost immediately felt chastened by catching myself with such a thought.
Forget about the law.

Where had my humanity gone?

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 4, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITIZENSHIP OATH GETS MODERN REWORKING;
'PRINCES, POTENTATES' ARE BEING DROPPED FROM CITIZENS' VOW

BYLINE: SUZANNE GAMBOA, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The citizenship oath, which requires immigrants to renounce loyalty to "princes
and potentates," is getting a makeover after a half-century.

"It's being recrafted so it has more meaning to those who are raising their
right hand and swearing" the oath, said Eduardo Aguirre Jr., director of
Citizenship and Immigration Services in the Homeland Security Department.

The updated oath will be made public Sept. 17, when the department marks
Citizenship Day.

Immigration officials have kept the rewrite quiet and only gave a few details
Wednesday after the update was mentioned during a panel discussion that included
Aguirre.

The language is being reworked to "make more sense to the brain," Aguirre said.
"We're abjuring and renouncing princes and potentates. Do you think that's
outdated? I don't know any potentates," Aguirre said.

The oath, which is read by every new citizen, states: "I absolutely and entirely
renounce and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince,
potentate, state, or sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a
subject or citizen."

It further makes immigrants state that they will defend the Constitution and
U.S. laws, and will "bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by
the law."

Aguirre said Congress mandated what should be contained in the oath, but did not
provide the language. The current oath dates to 1952.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 4, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL IS A BIG FRAUD RISK;
PANDERING FOR VOTES, GOV. DAVIS HAS SIGNALED HIS INTENTION TO SIGN IT ANYWAY

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 296 words


There are ways to give undocumented immigrants the ability to obtain a driver's
license without threatening the security of all Californians.

But a bill that will soon arrive at Gov. Gray Davis' desk will not do that. It
will increase the likelihood of fraud and identity theft -- not just by
immigrants but by anyone out to exploit weaknesses in the system.

SB 60 passed the Legislature on Wednesday after a raucous debate.

Davis could have muted the partisan charges -- and picked up more support from
law enforcement officials -- by insisting on security protections he had
demanded when he vetoed a license bill twice before. Instead, pandering for
votes to defeat his recall, he signaled a month ago that he would sign a deeply
flawed bill.

The bill amends the law that requires those seeking a driver's license to give a
Social Security number, which is available only to citizens and legal residents.
Instead, applicants will be able to submit an easily obtainable taxpayer ID
number, whose authenticity can't be verified. The federal government has warned
states not to rely on it for identification purposes.

In recent weeks, Democratic Sen. Gil Cedillo, the sponsor, tried to make the
bill more palatable by including new fingerprint technology to screen for people
seeking duplicate licenses. Though it would have taken years to get all drivers
into the database, eventually the system would have been useful. But Senate
Democrats, worried about erosion of privacy protections, squelched the idea.

Up to 2 million undocumented workers in California soon will be able to drive to
work legally and buy auto insurance. They should have that right -- but not
through a process that allows identity thieves and terrorists to get licenses as
well.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Identity theft

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 6, 2003 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION STOKES NEW FIRE IN RECALL RACE

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1121 words


Immigration and race, California's perennial sources of conflict, have come to
the forefront of the recall election as Democrats and Republicans try to chart a
winning path through the state's rocky ethnic landscape.

Not since 1994, when the governor's race was defined by Proposition 187, have
the twin issues made such big political waves, although this time the commotion
is coming as much from the candidates' ethnic backgrounds as from the policies
they endorse.

The most recent flash point is over Democratic Gov. Gray Davis' signing Friday
of a bill that allows illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses. "These
hard-working immigrants work, pay taxes and they deserve to drive to work," he
said after signing it Friday in Los Angeles, where 40 percent of the residents
are foreign-born.

Democratic Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, who is the son of Mexican immigrants and is
running as a replacement candidate if Davis loses the Oct. 7 recall, also backed
the bill. Republican contender Arnold Schwarzenegger, who has taken to calling
himself "the true immigrant" in the race, has vowed to lead the drive to repeal
it.

He pointed out that Davis opposed the bill until the recall qualified. "Now,
it's election time," Schwarzenegger said. "Of course, everythingchanges."

Turning the tables

After weeks of being pummeled as anti-immigrant by Democrats, the Austrian-born
Schwarzenegger may have found a less divisive way to turn the immigration issue
to his advantage. Republicans have largely avoided immigration issues ever since
they frightened away Latino voters with a fierce television ad campaign in favor
of Proposition 187, which sought to deny public services to illegal immigrants.
The ads showed people running into the state, while a narrator intoned, "They
keep coming."

The governor is hoping to mend fences with Latino voters, who are angry with him
for vetoing previous versions of the driver's license bill.

Bruce Cain, a political scientist at the University of California-Berkeley, said
that while Davis' 11th-hour reversal may appeal to Latinos, it is unlikely to
please the moderates Davis also needs to survive.

"There's a danger that what he gains in terms of loyal Latinos, he loses in
terms of swing voters, particularly when the economy is bad," Cain said. "When
the economy is bad, people tend to shift against immigration."

Democrats have been attacking the actor on immigration from the start. As soon
as former Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, appeared on television as
Schwarzenegger's public face, Democrats brought up Proposition 187, which Wilson
rode to re-election in 1994.

Democratic Party Chairman Art Torres asked Wilson if the actor had voted for the
proposition. Much to Torres' surprise, Wilson said he thought that
Schwarzenegger had.

Wilson quickly disappeared, but immigration and its companion, race, did not.

Latino groups began criticizing Schwarzenegger for being on the advisory board
of U.S. English, a group that opposes bilingual education.

The actor avoided taking positions on other racially charged questions, such as
affirmative action. He has yet to state his views on Proposition 54, which would
bar the state from collecting information about race and will share the ballot
with the recall.

Asked about immigration, Schwarzenegger has given muddled responses in which he
complains about the current state of affairs without offering any solutions.

Schwarzenegger has said that amnesty programs failed to stem illegal immigration
and that something should be done about it. But he doesn't say what, beyond
demanding more help from the federal government -- something that Democrats like
Davis and U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein have been seeking for years.

More recently, Schwarzenegger has sought to defuse the charge that he is
anti-immigrant by emphasizing that he is an immigrant himself.

"Whereas other candidates are maybe sons of immigrants, but I'm the true
immigrant, OK?" Schwarzenegger told the Associated Press, making it clear that
he was speaking about Bustamante, his chief rival in the race.

"I want to stress over and over that there is no one that is more sympathetic
toward the situation than I am. I know exactly what an immigrant goes through."

Motto mentions race

Bustamante, while citing his Latino bona fides, has not escaped racially tinged
controversies. He has been criticized for his college membership in a student
group, Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlan, or MEChA, which still claims to
be committed to "the liberation of Aztlan," referring to the part of the United
States that once belonged to Mexico.

Critics accuse the group -- and by extension Bustamante -- of being racist
because of its motto "Por la Raza todo. Fuera de la Raza nada," which can be
translated as "For the Race, everything. For those outside the Race, nothing."

The most conservative of the major recall candidates, state Sen. Tom McClintock,
R-Thousand Oaks, denounced Bustamante for having been in the group. Publicly,
Schwarzenegger has kept his distance from the MEChA fracas, although one of his
advisers fed stories about Bustamante's involvement in thegroup.

Emphasis on school

Gregory Rodriguez, a conservative Latino commentator, said the MEChA controversy
was overblown. He and other Latinos dismissed the group's motto as mere rhetoric
from a student group that in reality devotes itself to tutoring and fostering
social connections.

"As far as the Republican effort to turn Bustamante into an ethnic radical, that
is just stupid," Rodriguez said. "It's racializing a candidate who, frankly, has
not been flying the ethnic flag throughout his career."

Today, Bustamante is expected to receive the endorsement of San Jose Mayor Ron
Gonzales, one of only a few Latino mayors of major cities in the country.

The Democratic Party responded to the MEChA debate by throwing yet more gasoline
onto the ethnic fire.

"You Republicans never miss an opportunity to bash Latinos," the party's fiery
spokesman, Bob Mulholland, said, adding that as a student at Chico State
University in the early 1970s he worked with MEChA members, some of whom were
attending college on the GI Bill.

Sean Walsh, a Schwarzenegger representative, accused the Democrats of
demagoguery for pushing the immigration issue and said the actor's immigrant
roots will enable him to rise above the divisive debate. As for the driver's
license bill, Walsh denied that there was any larger purpose in attacking Davis
for signing it.

"The bottom line is, it's a bad law," he said. "The people who are making the
illegal-immigration issue and throwing these charges around are Cruz and the
Democrats. We have an upbeat message."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Recall
Who Should Lead California?
Related Stories: pages 1A,13A-14A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MARK J. TERRILL -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Gov. Gray Davis pumps his fist Friday in Los Angeles as he signs a bill allowing
illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 10, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAMILY FIGHTS DEPORTATIONS;
CUPERTINO TEENS' ROAD TO RESIDENCY BLOCKED
POST-SEPT. 11 SECURITY MAKES BIG DEAL OUT OF A ROUTINE IMMIGRATION SNAG

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1845 words


It is 6 a.m., and Ahmad Amin should be at home, resting for football practice or
studying for his fall SATs. Instead, he's on a train to San Francisco with his
mother on a Wednesday morning for his monthly visit to an immigration officer.

Amin, a high school senior who recently turned 18, has been ordered deported to
Lahore, Pakistan, along with his brother, Hassan, 19. Like a criminal parolee,
Ahmad must report to the immigration officer, who holds his Pakistani passport,
to attest that he has not left the country while the family fights to keep the
brothers here.

Until two years ago, the Amins' immigration problem would probably have been
settled quickly, without the brothers' deportation. But one date changedthe
tenor of their entire case -- Sept. 11, 2001.

"I just want to graduate from high school," said Ahmad Amin, who plays tight end
for the Cupertino High School football team. "My dream is for this to be over."

The devastating event that is now known simply as "9/11" may be receding into
national memory, but it is far from over. It continues to haunt those who lost
loved ones in the terrorist attacks, and has rolled through the lives of
countless others, including Ahmad and Hassan. They are among 13,000 primarily
Arab and Middle Eastern men and boys facing deportation after voluntarily coming
forward for a national security registration program and then being told they
had overstayed their visas.

Government officials said they have caught suspected terrorists in this dragnet,
and that tighter immigration controls are essential to stopping more mass
murders. But critics say many immigrants such as the Amin brothers are paying
the price of the government's intensified focus on enforcement and national
security.

Many immigrants have been deported on minor immigration violations that would
have been resolved with reasonable discretion and compassion before Sept. 11,
lawyers and leaders in immigrant communities say. Many immigrants, including the
Amin brothers, already had pending applications for legal immigration status
that are now of little use to them because they have been targeted for
deportation.

Since fall 2001, almost half a million people from more than 200 countries have
been deported from the United States. Some were legal immigrants who lost their
immigration status after committing serious crimes. Others were temporary
visitors who stayed after their visas expired. A majority of those deported were
citizens of Latin American countries, including Mexico, caught after slipping
across borders into the United States.

Those who have been been deported are permanently barred from entering the
United States again, often leaving behind American families -- siblings,
parents, husbands and wives. Those who agree to leave voluntarily can reapply to
enter the country after 10 years.

For the Amin brothers and their family, the possibility of deportation has
wrecked the calm, domestic routine they had been following on the road to
citizenship.

The brothers' mother, Tahira Manzur, first immigrated to the United States in
1973, the wife of a Pakistani doctor. The couple lived in Chicago, and she gave
birth to a son, Imran Mughal, who automatically received American citizenship
because he was born in the United States.

But two years later, Imran's father was murdered in a robbery. Manzur returned
to Pakistan with the baby, where she eventually remarried and had two more sons,
Hassan and Ahmad Amin.

Imran Mughal returned to the United States when he was 18, attended Purdue
University in Indiana and trained as a software engineer. After college, he took
a high-technology job in Dallas. By this time, his mother in Lahore had
divorced, remarried and divorced again.

When Manzur came to visit her American son in 1998, with his teenage
half-brothers Hassan and Ahmad, she decided for the second time that she was
going to settle in this country. The family moved to San Jose in 2000.

"I wanted my children to be all together. We wanted to build a new life in
America," said Manzur, now 52.

Mughal's citizenship helped his mother obtain a green card, or permanent
residence, in the United States. The plan was for Mughal, the main breadwinner,
to help his two young brothers win legal, permanent resident status, too.

Now, Manzur and Mughal say they're paying for bad legal advice they received
from a Dallas lawyer in 1998. Instead of filing permanent legalization papers
for the mother and her two sons, the lawyer filed only for the mother, saying
the boys' immigration status would derive from her permanent residency. All
three were qualified to apply because Mughal is a U.S. citizen.

Manzur received her green card in 2001, but it became clear the lawyer's
approach had failed for her sons. By then, Ahmad and Hassan Amin had overstayed
their visas, which expired Jan. 3, 1999. Mughal immediately filed a new petition
on their behalf.

In February, Ahmad and Hassan went to the immigration office in San Joseto
comply with a new government regulation requiring all men and boys on temporary
visas from certain Middle Eastern, Arab and Asian countries to register. It was
part of the government's new border security measures resulting from Sept. 11,
designed to track the movement of foreigners.

Mughal said he felt reasonably confident that nothing would go wrong because he,
an American citizen, had petitions pending on their behalf.

To the family's horror, immigration officials immediately placed the Amin
brothers in deportation proceedings.

Hassan Amin was detained overnight in Yuba County Jail. Ahmad Amin, who was then
17 years old, was released to his mother. It cost the family $4,000 to get
Hassan bonded out of jail. Legal fees to fight his brothers' deportation will
cost thousands more, Mughal said.

Because of this, Mughal has set aside his plans to buy a home for his family.

"It's just mental torture that you don't know what's going to happen," said
Mughal, a software engineer for America Online. "I can't take the next steps in
my life."

Everything is on hold. Ahmad should be preparing to choose a college to attend
next year. But he can't.

All summer, he has been in training with his Cupertino High School football
teammates. But, facing the possibility of deportation, he's not sure whether
he'll keep playing with the team.

Most of his close friends on the team and his coach, Jay Braun, know only scant
details of what he's facing. It's hard to explain, he says, even to a team full
of players who are the children of immigrants.

"Ahmad is a good kid, but in the same breath, I respect the government in a way
because it's doing it's job," Braun said.

After a sweaty, hourlong weight-lifting session one afternoon, Ahmad was taking
a drink of water, preparing to hit the field. One of his teammates teased him:
"Getting deported, huh?"

For a moment, Ahmad looked stricken. Then he ran to the field.

At De Anza College, Hassan's friends are excitedly talking about the four-year
colleges they're headed to this fall. Hassan doesn't have much to talk about.
His plans are on hold.

"It's the first thing I think about when I wake up in the morning," he said. "I
think about it all the time."

For his mother, the thought of being separated from her children has caused
great anxiety.

"I'm tired of this now, physically, emotionally," said Manzur, who teaches at a
child development center in Sunnyvale.

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the new Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, or BICE, in San Francisco, declined to comment on the Amin
brothers' case. But Garrison Courtney, a Washington, D.C.-based spokesman for
the bureau, disputed critics who say the government is deporting more people
from Arab and Middle Eastern countries.

Deportation, he said, is the price of violating U.S. immigration laws.

"I don't think there's a crackdown. We're closing loopholes," he said. "We're
enforcing immigration laws and people are noticing that."

The Amin brothers' lawyer, however, said the young men are the victim of new
heavy-handedness on the part of the federal government.

"Why are they being tough on these folks? This has nothing to do with security,"
said Banafshe Akhlaghi, a San Francisco immigration attorney. "The government is
deporting people based on hyper-technical violations" that would have been
resolved before Sept. 11, she said.

Sept. 11 forced a major reorganization of the former Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The former INS is now a three-tiered agency --
immigration services, enforcement and customs. The BICE handles enforcement,
while the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, or BCIS, handles
immigration and citizenship applications.

Enforcement in the old INS was "schizophrenic," Courtney said, because the
agency was saddled with the dual missions of helping legal immigrants and
stopping illegal ones.

But with the creation of the enforcement agency, the loopholes that allowed
undocumented immigrants to stay in the United States long enough to establish
families are being closed. There is also more intense focus on immigrants who
commit serious crimes.

"We know what our mission is," Courtney said. "And that's what we're going to
do."

In the San Francisco district of the BCIS -- which extends from Bakersfield to
the Oregon border -- 5,302 people from 49 countries were deported in 2002, an 11
percent increase from two years ago. More than 80 percent of those deported had
criminal convictions, Rummery said.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
national group that advocates tougher measures against illegal immigration,
likened the focus on deportation to Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's stance on crime in
New York City. Cracking down on minor violators led to the arrest of hardened
criminals, he said.

"A new seriousness about immigration enforcement will result in getting real bad
guys," Krikorian said. "It also sends a message that immigration law is no
longer a joke."

But for the Amin brothers, the new toughness may mean they get swept out as
well. Returning to Pakistan is not an option, they said. The family has
discussed heading to Canada if their efforts to end the deportation fails. The
brothers have a legal hearing on Sept. 18.

Rifling through a stack of immigration documents in the family's cramped,
two-bedroom apartment in West San Jose, Mughal pulled out a newspaper page dated
Dec. 15, 2000. It was a list of President Bush's campaign promises, from the
days before Sept. 11 shook the nation and upended the family's life.

Mughal has highlighted one:

"Encourage family reunification by allowing spouses and minors of legal
residents to apply for visitor's visas while their immigration applications are
pending."

Then Mughal carefully folded the page and put it away.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
U.S. deportations, 1998-2003
Source: Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 9: 11: 01
TWO YEARS LATER

GRAPHIC: Photos (4), Chart;
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
[Tahira Manzur]
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Ahmad Amin dons leg guards as he prepares to bat in a cricket match in San
Leandro. The 18-year-old native of Pakistan also plays football at Cupertino
High School, but sports and other matters hang in the balance pending a
deportation hearing.
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Ahmad Amin, left rear, next to his brother, Hassan, and with mother, Tahira
Manzur, and half-brother Imran Mughal, awaits a hearing on his and Hassan's
possible deportation.
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Ahmad Amin's role as tight end for the Cupertino High School football team is in
suspense.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 11, 2003 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE IMMIGRANT CRACKDOWN FALLACY;
THE LAW-ABIDING ARE BEING ARRESTED AND DEPORTED, WHICH DOES NOT MAKE AMERICA
SAFER

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 555 words


Shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks, President Bush made an appeal for tolerance
and reason. The nation's war, he promised, would be against terrorists, not
against immigrants, Arabs or Muslims.

Two years later, as we remember the victims and as the president calls for
stronger powers to pursue terrorists, his promise is in tatters.

Administration policies have trampled on the rights and lives of immigrants,
particularly Middle Easterners and South Asians. It's unclear whether the
policies have made America safer, but they have gone a long way toward
undermining America's democratic ideals, its tradition of inclusion and its
reputation around the world as a haven for those seeking freedom.

Led by zealot John Ashcroft, Bush's attorney general, the administration has
embarked on a sweeping crackdown that has turned law-abiding immigrants into
suspects. Thousands have been caught in a dragnet of arrests, forced interviews
and deportations that have upended their lives, and torn apart their families
and their communities.

The USA Patriot Act has become a lightning rod for critics of the crackdown, and
there's plenty that's wrong with the hastily passed law.

What has hit immigrant communities the hardest, however, is not the Patriot Act
itself, but a series of administrative decisions and policy directives from the
Justice Department and immigration authorities that apply the law in a
discriminatory fashion.

It began with the secret detentions of more than 700 immigrants, many of whom
were inexcusably abused. None was charged in connection with terror, yet scores
were deported.

Next FBI agents knocked on more than 8,000 doors for "voluntary" interrogations.
Then came the forced registrations of immigrants from some 20 countries. About
13,000 of them face deportation, many for technical visa violations that prior
to 9/11 would have been resolved administratively.

As Jesse Mangaliman reported in Wednesday's Mercury News, they are people like
Ahmad Amin, a football player at Cupertino High School, and his brother Hassan.
The two teenagers are facing expulsion to Pakistan, a country where they have no
family. Their crime: Because of bad legal advice, they failed to apply for a
green card they were qualified to receive.

The immigrant witch-hunt has also taken more subtle forms. Approvals for
political asylum were down by nearly two-thirds in 2002, undercutting a lifeline
for thousands of legitimate refugees. Arbitrary visa delays and denials have put
fear into the lives of foreign students and workers, while hurting business and
scientific research.

A Chinese AIDS scientist was unable to return to his Fremont biotech firm after
a trip overseas; an Iranian earthquake expert chose a Canadian university over
UC-Berkeley to spare himself the trouble of applying for a U.S. visa. The
stories go on.

Targeting law-abiding immigrants will not make America safer. There's little to
suggest that ordinary Americans, who have largely refrained from scapegoating
immigrants, support such policies. And there are many reasons to fear that the
crackdowns will end up destroying the very values the war on terror is supposed
to defend.

President Bush must put an end to them before it is too late. There are far
better ways to protect Americans from terrorists.Ashcroft

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: War against terrorists

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Ashcroft

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 12, 2003 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ACCENT IS ON IMMIGRATION:;
POLITICIANS LISTEN TO THE VOTES

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ, column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9C

LENGTH: 376 words


You like toe-MAY-toe and I like toe-MAH-toe.

You say Cal-A-fornia and I say Cal-EE-fornia.

Toe-may-toe. Toe-mah-toe. Cal-A-fornia. Cal-EE-fornia.

Let's call the whole thing off!

With apologies to Ira and George Gershwin, it's too late to call off
California's lunatic recall election, even as candidates begin to mimic that
familiar song about incompatible lovers.

The great pronunciation debate started when Gov. Gray Davis joked about
Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger's thick German accent.

"You shouldn't be governor unless you can pronounce the name of the state,"
Davis said.

For the record, Ah-nole says Cal-EE-fornia. Davis uses the Anglicized version,
Cal-A-fornia.

Before you could say Ter-mi-nay-tor, the field of candidates joined Republicans
in accusing Davis of racism and xenophobia. The state Senate, which had trouble
passing a budget, quickly passed a resolution demanding an apology from Davis.

If there's a serious note to this silliness, it highlights how politicians have
changed their tune on immigration.

Just a decade ago, the Republican Party led the effort to toss undocumented
children out of school with Proposition 187. All they did was drive a new
generation of Latinos and Asians into the waiting arms of the Democrats. Then
they lost more elections than the opposition in Cuba.

Meanwhile, California's Legislature finally found the backbone to grant drivers'
licenses to illegal immigrants. Imagine that. We've gone from blaming illegal
immigrants for everything to giving them the keys.

California's Latino population doubled between 1980 and 2000 to 11 million
people, or 32 percent of the state's population. The number of Asians also
doubled to 3.6 million. Meanwhile, more than a million non-Hispanic whites moved
away.

We need some lessons in speech pathology, not just in California, but across the
country, where immigrants are reshaping the lexicon of politics, and of everyday
life. You never know. A recall can start anywhere these days.

Finally, the supreme irony in the pronunciation debate is that Schwarzenegger's
Cal-EE-fornia is closer to the Spanish version of the word. That could gain him
thousands of Latino votes.

On second thought, let's call the whole thing off.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ is a Mercury News columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              May 6, 2003 Tuesday

Council OK's crackdown on laborers;
Police will clear streets as soon as

BYLINE: By Malaika Fraley, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 582 words

DATELINE: SAN MATEO


The City Council Monday approved two anti-solicitation ordinances that will
allow police to crack down on day laborers -- and the people who hire them on
city streets -- once the city's workers-resource center opens this summer.

"It's become an impossible situation, and I think the council is finally at a
point where we have a solution -- thank goodness," council member Sue Lempert
said minutes before the Council's unanimous vote.

On July 1, the city is scheduled to open a center at Fifth and Railroad avenues,
where immigrant workers and other adults seeking casual labor can be matched up
with employers.

Once day laborers have a place to go, police can enforce the ordinances intended
to encourage use of the center, to be operated as a pilot program for one year.

Day laborer phenonmenon

For more than a decade, San Mateo has been grappling with the influx of
immigrant workers who loiter in front of homes and businesses along the Third
and Fourth avenue corridors.

As their numbers grew to upwards of 200 on any given day, so did complaints from
citizens who said the laborers were intimidating nearby residents, creating a
traffic hazard, and often littering and urinating on private property.

Past enforcement efforts have failed to produce any solution.

The city's current anti-solicitation ordinance is difficult to enforce -- police
must actually hear the solicitation occur -- and is similar to those in other
California cities deemed unconstitutional by the courts, according to City
Attorney Shawn Mason.

The city turned to the Immigration and Naturalization Service for help, and
found that the INS doesn't have the resources to enforce its own policy on
undocumented workers.

"If we had the power and ability to have them arrested and deported, we would do
that," Councilmember John Lee said. "But the INS says they're not doing it, they
won't do it -- and we've been told we can't do it.

"In the meantime, our streets are not safe..."

Avoiding constitutional problemsMason says the two new ordinances were prepared
in a manner consistent with the ruling in a recent federal court case involving
an anti-solicitation ordinance in Los Altos.

One prohibits motorists from offering work to pedestrians, and pedestrians from
flagging down drivers to solicit jobs.

The second makes it illegal for anyone to encourage drivers to pull over in an
area where there's no stopping or parking allowed -- like the red-curbed
portions of Third and Fourth avenues, where trucks can often be seen stopping to
pick up laborers.

Mason said police will "aggressively enforce" the ordinances upon the opening of
the workers-resource center, and after their second reading and adoption at the
City Council meeting on May 19.

Legal concerns

Mark Silverman, an attorney with the Immigrant Legal Resource in San Francisco,
says he applauds San Mateo for opening a day-laborer center and putting it near
where the workers naturally congregate.

But Silverman, an immigrant-rights expert, said he would oppose the ordinances,
which he said could raise some First Amendment issues.

"Law enforcement should focus their effort on people who are peddling drugs or
breaking into houses, not people struggling to make a living," Silverman said.
"It's bad policy when you end up giving people a criminal background for trying
to solicit work."

Staff writer Malaika Fraley covers San Mateo. She can be reached at 348-4337 or
by e-mail at mfraley@angnewspapers.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              280 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             May 15, 2003 Thursday

Migrants struggle for shelter;
Huts torn down after unsanitary conditions found; tents then set up

BYLINE: By Jason Song

SECTION: HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: CARLSBAD


BALTIMORE SUN

This city's old secrets live in the canyons.

The Latino migrant workers who pick fruit and vegetables in this oceanside city
used to reside quietly in temporary, ramshackle huts during the warm months.
Many would disappear south of the border during the winter. In either case, very
few people paid attention to them.

Workers' rights argument

But the city tore down the huts earlier this year because, officials say, waste
from the workers' encampment was washing into a lagoon and polluting it. The men
were forced to scramble to find other housing and many settled in hastily built
tents in roadside canyons, setting off a racially tinged argument about workers'
rights.

That debate is unlikely to be resolved any time soon, observers say. And in the
meantime, the workers' lives have become harsher than ever. The majority are
illegal immigrants, and because of tightened borders after the Sept. 11 attacks,
it has become more difficult for them to return home for the winter.

This year, they chose to stay in Carlsbad, about 30 miles north of San Diego,
over the winter instead of trying to cross the border into Mexico. City
officials estimate there are about 500 migrant workers in the area.

"I wish Carlsbad was unique, but it's not. This happens all over California,"
says Ilene Jacobs, director of litigation, advocacy and training for the
California Rural Legal Assistance League, a nonprofit organization that is an
advocate for the workers.

Growing season, winter

Until the Sept. 11 attacks, the year could be split into two parts in Carlsbad:
the growing season, and winter.

During the growing season, thousands of migrant workers from Mexico and other
Latin American countries arrive to work in the fields, where they can earn about
$8 an hour, vastly more than they earn at home. During the winter months, when
work is scarce, many would go back to Mexico, less than 70 miles to the south.

But because of heightened border security after the attacks and during the war
in Iraq, more and more workers are afraid to return home, advocates for migrants
say. There is no reliable way to quantify the flow of illegal immigrants into
the United States, but San Diego-area human rights workers all agree that fewer
people are attempting the crossing.

'Militarized' border a problem

"The border has become militarized, and nobody wants to risk going back and not
being able to cross back over," says Mark Day, a documentary filmmaker who works
with the Ecumenical Migrant Outreach Project, a nonprofit group that assists
area day laborers.

Instead of going home, many workers remained at the Carlsbad camp. Nobody is
exactly sure how long the camp has existed, but a security firm employed by the
city recently discovered unsanitary conditions there. The men's food and trash
were polluting the lagoon, according to the firm, which also said it discovered
human feces in and around the lagoon.

Nearby residents had also complained about the camp, infuriating many workers
rights advocates, who accused city residents of being selfish. "Some people with
those several-hundred-thousand-dollar homes thought that [the camp] sullied
their view," Jacobs says. The average home price in Carlsbad is more than
$530,000, and apartment rents are beyond the means of migrant workers.

It's impossible to tell how many men live here. But no women or children live in
the camp, which has been christened Rancho Los Diablos -- Ranch of the Devils.

I wouldn't want my family to see me like this, says a man who identifies himself
as Juan Rivera. Rivera says his wife and two young boys live about an hour south
of Mexico City.

The men say they would like to return home but have little choice but to stay in
the United States until they earn enough money. The price immigrants pay to
coyotes -- who smuggle humans into the United States -- has skyrocketed to up to
$2,500 per person, up from less than $1,000 before Sept. 11, advocates say.

What choice do we have? says Rivera, who says he paid nearly $1,700 for a coyote
to get him here.

Worker advocates call the conditions abominable and have protested the city's
actions. Activists stand in front of the Leslie Farms strawberry stand on Canyon
Road and urge the city and farm to provide shelter for the workers. Some
encourage tourists and others to shop in Encinitas or other nearby cities.

The men deserve better. They are the ones that make the economy go, says Jose
Gonzalez, a volunteer with the American Friends Service Committee.

Much of the anger has been directed at Leslie Farms, Inc., which owns a vending
stand close to the lagoon and employs some of the displaced workers. Peter
Mackauf, the farm's general manager, says he sympathizes with the men. These
times of makeshift dwellings are unacceptable, Mackauf says. They need to have
basic human services.

But Mackauf says the camp is not Leslie Farm's responsibility because it only
employs the workers. Basically, it's a low-income housing problem, he says.

Worker advocates scoff at Mackauf's assertions. It's a very convenient system
for the agricultural system and the city to put blinders on, but the fact is
someone has fostered the camps, Jacobs says. Her organization has asked the city
for all of its correspondence with local growers. Jacobs says she views the
city's actions as illegal.

But Carlsbad officials have taken steps to try to alleviate the problem. The
City Council recently voted to finance a plan to build permanent housing for the
workers and Jacobs says she has no plans to sue the city unless it reneges on
promises to build a permanent shelter.

The men admit to being lonely and say they would have liked to return home for
the holidays or for a visit. But they acknowledge it would be almost impossible.

Hopefully, after a little more time, I can go back, Rivera says. And I hope it
doesn't rain again.>

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              281 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             August 31, 2003 Sunday

Critics: Foreign labor will 'kill the profession';
Groundswell against use of work visas is reaching all the way to Congress

BYLINE: By Alan Zibel, BUSINESS WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1076 words

DATELINE: DANVILLE


Pete Bennett first noticed the market for his services as a software contractor
was fading away about three years ago.

First, he lost out to a Malaysian competitor in bidding for a large software
project, for which Bennett wanted to charge $150,000. The overseas rival bid
around $50,000, he said.

Then, a large bank canceled a programming contract because of an abrupt change
in its budget, Bennett said. He later found out through the grapevine that the
company had shortly thereafter brought in foreign workers on temporary work
visas.

"What I always noticed was I was getting beat out by the cheaper labor," said
the 47-year-old Bennett, who lives in a modest one-story house in Danville with
his wife and two sons.

The experience has turned Bennett into an activist who is strongly critical of
American companies bringing in foreign workers and sending jobs overseas. And he
is not alone. As tales multiply of American high-tech workers losing their jobs,
unions, Internet activists and some members of Congress are seizing on the
issue.

"The job loss is so systemic and so broad around the country," said Bennett, who
believes the issue could change the course of next year's presidential election.
"This is the genie that's about to pop out of the bottle."

Bennett has nearly 20 years of experience in technology and made $80,000 to
$90,000 a year doing software consulting during the technology boom. Now he
makes $35,000 to $40,000 a year working for a mortgage broker, building cabinets
and doing what software work he can find.

Through his Web site, nomoreh1b.com, and his work in a fledgling union of
technology workers called the Programmers Guild, Bennett has been interviewed by
journalists from around the word. He has been on CNN, Indian television, Danish
television, Swiss radio and numerous newspapers from America, India and Hong
Kong.

The two U.S. visa programs that Bennett and others fervently criticize are known
as H-1B and L-1, both of which are temporary work visas.

H-1B visas allow companies to sponsor foreign workers for up to six years.

Faced with pressure from the high-tech industry, Congress in 2000 raised the
annual cap on H-1B visas to 195,000 a year. That limit is slated to drop to
65,000 next year if Congress takes no action.

By contrast, there is no limit on the number of L-1 visas. Those visas last up
to seven years and allow companies to transfer managers, executives or those
with "specialized knowledge" from foreign offices to locations in the United
States.

Critics argue this visa category is increasingly being abused. They accuse
Indian consulting firms such as Tata Consultancy Services, Wipro Technologies
and Infosys Technologies of bringing foreign laborers to the United States and
then hiring them out as consultants to other companies.

Infosys, which has its U.S. headquarters in Fremont, said in a Securities and
Exchange Commission filling that about 2,500 of its workers in the United States
hold H-1B visas, and about 830 hold L-1 visas.

At Wipro, 1,150 of U.S.-based employees hold L-1 visas and 683 hold the H-1B
variety, according to an SEC filing.

Richard Baldyga, vice president for outsourcing solutions for Infosys, says his
company does not put workers with L-1 visas on a client's site for long-term
projects. Infosys also said its workers in the United States pay taxes here.

"We recognize the spirit of these two visas and don't try and play any games
with the language of it," he said. "Some of our competition wiggles out of that
and plays some games with how they compensate their folks."

In a July hearing before a Senate subcommittee, U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein was
skeptical about worker visas, citing fraud in those programs, and questioning
whether workers on visas are paying income taxes.

"To have workers that are able to come into this country ... and be here for
seven years and pay no taxes and replace American workers, that is not something
I want to be a part of," Feinstein said. "I would hope that computer firms and
chip firms and others in my state would not do that."

Though employers are supposed to pay a "prevailing wage" to H-1B workers, many
laid-off technology workers say that's often not the case.

Some say H-1B workers are like indentured servants because they must keep their
job to retain their visas. Therefore, they do not want to upset their employers.

H-1B workers have "zero legal rights," said Murali Krishna Devarakonda, who
lives in Santa Clara and is president of the Immigrant Support Network, an
organization formed to help immigrant workers. "An immigrant has to be more
driven, because he has to prove himself.

"That's why we work hard, because we endured so much in order to come here. ...
We have seen what life is like on the other side of the globe. Most Americans
have not."

One former employee of Pleasanton-based software maker PeopleSoft said he was
laid off about a year ago, in a process that he described as "stealth layoffs"
where about 50 information technology workers a week were laid off. The people
on his team that remained, he said, were H-1B workers.

"They get worked extremely long hours," the former PeopleSoft employee said, at
lower pay than American citizens or workers on green cards.

PeopleSoft spokesman Steve Swasey said, "We didn't have any large numbers of
layoffs in 2002," though he said that "jobs do get eliminated from time to time"
as the company's needs change.

Swasey also said the company has not replaced full-time software development or
information technology jobs with H-1B workers.

Bheemsen Aitha, a 36-year-old programmer and former H-1B worker who lives in
Dublin and now has his green card, said cutting off the H-1B visa program would
be a bad idea, especially as companies are sending work overseas. Indian
technology wokers provide much "more quality compared to other people," he said.

Some argue that worker visa programs facilitate the transfer of American
technology jobs overseas. That's because although a typical offshore outsourcing
project includes 20 to 40 percent of workers in the United States, many of them
are here on visas, said Norman Matloff, a computer science professor at the
University of California, Davis.

"Either way, foreign labor is going to kill the profession," Matloff said. "This
profession is definitely headed for extinction unless Congress does something."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              282 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           September 2, 2003 Tuesday

Protest decries foreign outsourcing;
Protest decries foreign outsourcing

BYLINE: By Alan Zibel, BUSINESS WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS NEWS

LENGTH: 775 words


Bank of America targeted for demonstration against export of jobs overseas By
Alan Zibel, BUSINESS WRITER CONCORD

CARRYING SIGNS with such slogans as "Will code for food," and "Outsourcing is
stealing billions from America," about 40 technology workers staged a Labor Day
protest Monday against companies that send American jobs overseas and employ
foreigners on work visas. The group of protesters, which included three
candidates in California's recall election for governor, gathered Monday morning
on a street corner next to Bank of America's Concord office complex, where about
3,500 people work.

Bank of America was the target of Monday's protest because in April, 41-year-old
software engineer Kevin Flanagan of Pleasant Hill committed suicide after being
laid off from his job in Concord, according to his father.

A loose network of laid-off technology workers blames Bank of America for
Flanagan's death, because the company has signed software contracts with several
India-based consulting firms.

Many of those present Monday were well-paid programmers and information
technology workers before the current economic downturn. They consistently
described their frustrations at applying for job after job, only to find
nothing.

They blamed the lack of Bay Area high-tech jobs on companies that send jobs
offshore and bring in foreign workers on visas such as the H-1B and L-1. Several
protesters said companies favor foreign workers on visas because they are easy
to manage and can be paid less, even though the law mandates that they be paid
wages equal to those of U.S. citizens.

Nick Bhatti, 23, of San Mateo, who came to America from India in 1992 and works
as a programmer, called foreigners on work visas "modern-day slaves" who work
long hours with less pay than American citizens. Corporations want cheap labor,
and the government is enabling it, he said.

"I have nothing against them, but I have a problem with the system," Bhatti
said.

Though technology workers have not traditionally been unionized, national labor
unions have increasingly been getting involved in high-tech issues. Joshua
Sperry, a San Jose-based organizer with Communications Workers of America, said
his union is trying to start up an organization of Bay Area technology workers
as wages for programmers decline amid a glut of workers and competition from
overseas.

While Bank of America does outsource some projects to companies based overseas,
"the bank is a major employer in the United States," said spokesman Harvey
Radin. When the company sends software maintenance work offshore, the company's
programmers in America can "strengthen the focus on software development," Radin
said.

Over the next 15 years, 3.3 million

American jobs representing $136 billion in wages will go offshore to places like
India, Russia, China and the Philippines, according to Forrester Research.

Supporters of offshore outsourcing say the American economy benefits when
companies are able to operate with lower costs. Though some jobs do disappear
through outsourcing, corporations are made more financially healthy and thus
have to lay off fewer people, according to that argument.

Still, those assembled Monday morning didn't buy that line of reasoning. Chris
Parkes, an engineer from Moraga who works for the state government, faulted
political leaders for not recognizing the job losses created by offshore
outsourcing as a problem.

"I really wish that [President Bush] would finally recognize this problem as a
critical issue for the economy and the nation so that something can be done
about it," he said.

Dave Chapman of Sebastopol, a programmer with 20 years of experience who was
laid off two years ago, said he plans to run for Congress next year as an
independent, with an agenda of restricting visas for foreign workers.

"What we're looking at here is a very large pattern of immigration fraud,"
Chapman said. "There;s no enforcement."

Though no elected officials showed up, three lesser-known candidates for
governor in the Oct. 7 recall election also got into the action. They included
Ken Hamidi, who gained fame by barraging Intel Corp. with e-mails after being
fired from the Santa Clara-based company in 1995; Joe Guzzardi, a Lodi teacher
and newspaper columnist who is running on a platform of restricting immigration;
and Marc Valdez, a Sacramento air quality meteorologist.

"These folks here are like an endangered species," Valdez said. "This movement
to send the jobs to the cheapest possible place of labor is just despicable."

Alan Zibel may be reached at [510] 208-6414 or azibel@angnewspapers.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              283 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     November 28, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Complaint against Sun ended;
JUSTICE DEPT. DROPS VISA INVESTIGATION

BYLINE: By John Boudreau; Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 383 words


The Justice Department has ended its investigation into Sun Microsystems' use of
H-1B work visas, dismissing a complaint made in April by a laid-off Sun
engineer.

The engineer, Guy Santiglia, 37, lost his job in 2001 when Sun laid off 3,900
workers. He charged that Sun discriminated against U.S. citizens and favored
H-1B visa holders during the layoffs and in hiring it did after that. H-1B visas
allow foreigners to work temporarily in the United States.

Santiglia said that late last week, he received a curt e-mail from the
government: ''This is to inform you that the U.S. Department of Justice has
decided not to file a complaint with the Office of the Chief Administrative
Hearing Officer in the above-referenced case. The Department's dismissal letters
will be forthcoming.''

Santiglia now lives in Montana, where he hopes to start a business. ''I knew
this was a possibility,'' he said. ''I think the decision was more political
than based on the merits of the investigation and the complaint.''

Santiglia has requested a hearing on the case from a federal administrative law
judge.

A Justice Department spokesman couldn't be reached for comment Wednesday.

Sun spokeswoman Diane Carlini said the Santa Clara server and software company
is pleased with the government's decision. ''We never felt there was ever any
wrongdoing,'' she said. ''We felt confident that we would be cleared. We did
everything to follow the law.''

In a separate complaint filed by Santiglia, the Labor Department found in
October that Sun made a clerical error in failing to post notices about its
hiring of foreign workers but did not break the law. Santiglia has appealed that
finding, and a hearing has been scheduled for mid-December.

The continued use of H1-B workers during the tech recession, which has led to
the layoffs of thousands of U.S. citizens, has intensified complaints about the
program. The program was intended to help employers deal with a shortage of
qualified technical workers in the U.S.

''We realize there are a lot of sensitivities around these issues,'' Carlini
said. ''We are eager to put it behind us.''

Carlini added that Sun harbors no ill will toward Santiglia. ''We hope that he
finds another job,'' she said.

Contact John Boudreau at jboudreau@sjmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      January 26, 2003 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Jobless woes are home grown

SECTION: BU; Pg. BOX

LENGTH: 470 words


I couldn't help but notice the contrast between the two articles appearing side
by side on the Business cover Jan. 18.

''Indian Institute marks 50 years,'' talked about the commemoration of the
founding of the Indian Institute of Technology. ''Valley jobless rate bleak in
December'' described the continuing unemployment problems here, particularly
among high-tech workers.

Some will make a correlation between rising unemployment and a large influx of
foreign workers. But fortunately, most people are intelligent enough to realize
that the reasons for our unemployment problems are bigger than just the number
of foreign workers in the United States.

The reasons are entirely home grown. We can thank the shortsighted behavior of
our government and industry leaders for promoting and instituting policies that
were not in the best interests of Americans.

Politicians did not think through some of the long-term impacts of such
globalization strategies as the North American Free Trade Agreement, H-1B visas
and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Industry leaders saw these
policies as a means to realize huge profit through the exploitation of skilled
and unskilled cheap labor. There were some switches built into the policies if
things got out of balance, but they probably forgot to connect the switch.

Analyzing a company's stock performance is always a complex endeavor, but it is
troubling and problematic when reporters and analysts get many of their facts
wrong. Unfortunately, that was the case in the Jan. 19 Market Watch column by
Gretchen Morgenson (''Verizon's star seems due to lose some luster,'' Page 2F).

The Times News Service has already moved a correction about this column, noting
that Verizon is indeed a provider of DSL services. Here are additional
corrections:



 Verizon's long-distance business is profitable now.



 Verizon Wireless has contributed nearly three-quarters of $1 billion in the
first nine months of last year to Verizon's operating income and has growing
margins.



 With the exception of a one-day run-up that has since dissipated, our stock
price has increased over the past several months because experienced market
analysts and investors recognize that Verizon is especially well positioned
relative to its peers.

Despite the turmoil in the telecom industry, Verizon has taken the right steps
to build long-term value for our shareholders, and we will continue to do so.

Business welcomes letters. Address them to Niranda Chantavy, business copy
editor, Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190; fax them to
(408) 920-5917; or e-mail to business@sjmercury .com. Please include your home
address and a daytime phone number. The Mercury News reserves the right to
publish your submission in any form or medium.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    September 26, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

H-1B issues going to court;
U.S. WORKERS SAY THEY ARE FEELING BETRAYED

BYLINE: Jennifer Bjorhus Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words


For years U.S. engineers have grumbled that foreign engineers on work visas were
getting their jobs. Now, for the first time, U.S. workers are filing formal
complaints with the government and in court, charging that foreign guest workers
are replacing them during the downturn.

The complaints contend that citizens were either laid off or not hired in favor
of foreign workers on temporary H-1B visas. H-1B workers are supposed to fill
only those jobs left vacant by a shortage of skilled U.S. workers.

While the previous griping was often dismissed as racial backlash, the new
complaints spring from across the tech workforce -- from men and women, white
and non-white, native-born Americans and naturalized citizens. And labor lawyers
researching the cases are finding something that stuns them: The H-1B rules give
citizens almost no protection from being replaced by a foreign worker.

Such complaints have prompted the Department of Justice to examine Sun
Microsystems' use of the program. And they've led the General Accounting Office,
an investigative arm of Congress, to study how the H-1B program is affecting
U.S. workers.

"Betrayal is the word that would come to mind," said Allan Masri, a 52-year-old
San Jose engineer who was laid off from his quality assurance engineering job at
Netscape a year ago. His colleague, an H-1B worker with the same job title,
stayed on. Masri said he spent weeks training him on things such as the XML
programming language. Masri said he feels he was replaced; Netscape said he was
not.

When Congress expanded the H-1B program in 1998, under intense pressure from the
tech industry to increase the number of H-1B visas, it left truck-size holes in
the rules.

As a result, most employers don't have to hire U.S. citizens first or lay them
off last. And it's perfectly legal for most companies to fill U.S. jobs with
H-1B workers.

Tech leaders insist companies use the program only if they can't find qualified
U.S. engineers. Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology
Association of America, calls the protections for U.S. jobs "more than
adequate."

Miller said H-1B wage requirements ensure that employers don't undercut U.S.
workers; companies must post notices when they file H-1B applications. If the
rules are broken, anyone can file a complaint, he said. The fact that the number
of H-1B visa applications dropped this year indicates employers are using the
program appropriately.

The H-1B program expanded swiftly during the tech boom when employers complained
of a shortage of engineers. But with record-high unemployment among U.S.
engineers, it's hard to argue there's a shortage now.

"One recruiter flatly told me they have 50 H-1Bs willing to work cheap ahead of
me in line," said James Stakelum, a Dallas database administrator.

While Stakelum didn't file a complaint, others have.

Jenlih Hsieh, a 50-year-old U.S. citizen from Taiwan with a master's degree and
more than 12 years of experience in Unix systems administration, filed a
complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Department
of Justice and in Santa Clara County Superior Court. Hsieh alleges that SwitchOn
Networks of Milpitas fired him after six months and replaced him with an H-1B
worker.

According to the complaint, filed by attorney Phillip Griego, the H-1B worker
was earning $30,000 less a year, had only a bachelor's degree and much less
experience. An attorney for the company said Hsieh was fired in a layoff and
that his dismissal had nothing to do with being a U.S. citizen.

Some immigrants are astonished that being a U.S. citizen doesn't help them beat
H-1B workers in the job market.

"It's just so upsetting," said Jayashree, 40, a Sunnyvale engineer who asked
that her last name not be used. A U.S. citizen from India with a master's degree
in computer engineering and hot skills such as C++ and Java, Jayashree filed a
complaint with the EEOC after a start-up told her that an H-1B worker from India
got the software job she wanted. Unemployed with a son headed to college, she
worries about her future.

"What are we supposed to do?" she said. "We came here in the 1980s and we worked
very hard to come this far."

No one knows how many U.S. workers are reporting this problem. Complaints made
to the federal government are not public until they are resolved, and few have
been. The Mercury News has found scores of complaints at attorneys' offices and
government agencies nationwide, from the EEOC to the Department of Justice and
Department of Labor, the top enforcer of the H-1B program.

None of the agencies responsible for investigating complaints tracks them.

What's clear is that employers continued hiring H-1B workers during a period of
mass layoffs. Silicon Valley's top 10 tech companies alone hired at least 2,000
H-1B workers last year -- when they shed more than 41,000 jobs.

Some valley companies say they have reduced H-1B hiring dramatically. Intel,
which said that it hired somewhere between 65 and 584 H-1B workers last year
when it cut 5,000 jobs, added it applies for H-1B visas only when it can't find
qualified U.S. workers.

"The real issue here is the shortage of highly educated, qualified U.S.
candidates for the jobs for which we experience skill shortages," said Intel
spokeswoman Gail Dundas.

Critics charge some employers prefer foreign workers because they are cheaper
and more pliable. Three university studies and H-1B salary data from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service indicate that H-1B engineers and
programmers are paid 15 to 30 percent less.

Some H-1B workers acknowledge tremendous pressure to toe the line and work long
hours for employers who hold unusual power over their lives. If they are let go,
H-1B workers must leave the country unless another employer steps in as a
sponsor.

"The younger guys, they'll work 15-hour days easily," said Mohammed Shaikh, a
26-year-old H-1B accountant in Hayward who works at a financial services
company.

The H-1B rules leave it up to employers to determine whether there's a shortage
of qualified workers. Labor officials aren't out with clipboards checking for
shortages. Nor do they check if employers are paying H-1B workers what they pay
others, unless there is a complaint.

"There is no system of checks," said B. Lindsay Lowell, director of research at
the Pew Hispanic Center and an expert on H-1B issues. "It is completely a
complaint-driven process and it's very difficult often to bring a viable legal
case against employers."

The U.S. Department of Justice has been investigating complaints for violations
of the Immigration and Nationality Act, which forbids discrimination against
employees or job seekers on the basis of their citizenship. It's currently
investigating Sun Microsystems after a laid-off engineer complained in April
about widespread displacement of U.S. citizens. But most such cases haven't been
successful.

"They're very tough cases to prove," said a justice official who spoke on
condition of anonymity.

But not impossible.

Richard Schramm, an employment lawyer in San Jose, has settled six cases out of
court under state and federal laws that make it illegal to discriminate against
a job seeker or employee based on their national origin. Schramm's cases
involved a variety of tech companies and engineers from various ethnic
backgrounds who are U.S. citizens. All said their employer booted them for an
H-1B worker with less education and less expertise.

"Most companies are too embarrassed to let this go public, to let it be known
that you're abandoning American workers in favor of foreign-based workers,"
Schramm said. "It's the embarrassment factor that we use in order to settle
these cases."

For every formal complaint, there are many more workers who feel shortchanged
but don't speak out. Many signed away rights to challenge their former employer
in order to get severance packages.

Bob Simoni did not.

Simoni, 39, lost his consulting job at Toshiba American Electronics Components
in Irvine in March.

Simoni, who has an MBA from the University of California-Los Angeles, had worked
at Toshiba as a contract engineer for two years installing software in the
company's information technology division. He came to work in February to find
everyone packing their boxes. Toshiba was outsourcing the division to an
India-based technology services company, Infosys, which employs H-1B workers in
the United States.

Simoni said Toshiba asked him to stay for three weeks to do "knowledge transfer"
with Infosys employee Rakesh Gollapalli, who told him he had an H-1B visa. It
hurt to be training someone who for all practical purposes was replacing him,
and it felt wrong, Simoni said.

Toshiba wouldn't discuss Simoni's situation. A vice president, Stephen Marlow,
said the company decided to outsource some jobs to streamline its business in
the face of a challenging global market for electronic components.

But Simoni said, "I don't know how they can justify it. They didn't offer us the
opportunity to interview for these positions."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 19, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Sun error cited in failure to post H-1B hiring notices

BYLINE: Jennifer Bjorhus Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 287 words


The U.S. Department of Labor said Sun Microsystems made a clerical error in
failing to post notices about hiring foreign workers but didn't break any laws.
The finding is being appealed.

The case is one of two federal probes into Sun Microsystems' use of the H-1B
work visa program, both triggered when a laid-off engineer complained that the
Santa Clara company was favoring foreign engineers on temporary H-1B work visas
over U.S. citizens. In the other case, the U.S. Department of Justice has not
yet made any findings.

According to a Labor Department letter, Sun erred in not posting preliminary
applications, as required by the department's rules, for H-1B workers in its
offices in Sunnyvale and Austin. The Labor Department said the violations didn't
merit punishment because they weren't "substantial" or "willful" and didn't
involve back pay to employees. According to the letter, Sun has agreed to post
the preliminary applications in the future.

Sun spokeswoman Diane Carlini said the company was pleased the case was closed.

"The DOL found no material or intentional violation of the law and determined
that no civil or other penalty was called for," she said. "We are pleased this
matter has been resolved and that Sun has been cleared of any wrongdoing."

Guy Santiglia, the 37-year-old engineer who filed the complaint and is appealing
the finding, said he thought the posting violation was serious.

"The posting requirement is a major worker protection built into the H-1B
regulation," Santiglia said. "The fact that Sun was found to have violated that
regulation should not be trivialized as a 'clerical error.' "

Contact Jennifer Bjorhus at jbjorhus@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5660.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 19, 2002 Saturday

Labor Dept. cites error in missed Sun hiring notices

BYLINE: Jennifer Bjorhus Mercury News

LENGTH: 288 words


The U.S. Department of Labor said Sun Microsystems made a clerical error in
failing to post notices about hiring foreign workers but didn't break any laws.
The finding is being appealed.

The case is one of two federal probes into Sun Microsystems' use of the H-1B
work visa program, both triggered when a laid-off engineer complained that the
Santa Clara company was favoring foreign engineers on temporary H-1B work visas
over U.S. citizens. In the other case, the U.S. Department of Justice has not
yet made any findings.

According to a Labor Department letter, Sun erred in not posting preliminary
applications, as required by the department's rules, for H-1B workers in its
offices in Sunnyvale and Austin, Texas. The Labor Department said the violations
didn't merit punishment because they weren't "substantial" or "willful" and
didn't involve back pay to employees. According to the letter, Sun has agreed to
post the preliminary applications in the future.

Sun spokeswoman Diane Carlini said the company was pleased the case was closed.

"The DOL found no material or intentional violation of the law and determined
that no civil or other penalty was called for," she said. "We are pleased this
matter has been resolved and that Sun has been cleared of any wrongdoing."

Guy Santiglia, the 37-year-old engineer who filed the complaint and is appealing
the finding, said he thought the posting violation was serious.

"The posting requirement is a major worker protection built into the H-1B
regulation," Santiglia said. "The fact that Sun was found to have violated that
regulation should not be trivialized as a 'clerical error.' "

Contact Jennifer Bjorhus at jbjorhus@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5660.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 288 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 25, 2003 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NO GRACE PERIOD FOR H-1B BETWEEN EMPLOYERS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN AND EDWIN GARCIA, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 555 words


Q
I am an American citizen, and my fiancee is originally from South Korea. Her
current H-1B visa is due to expire Oct. 1.

She was laid off in February and has been unable to find a new employer.

Since she is on an H-1B from her original employer, is this visa transferable to
a new employer? Is there any way to extend the H-1B?

Michael Friedman
San Jose
A
There is no "grace period" that allows your fiancee to remain lawfully in the
United States. The Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services would consider
her to be "out of status" since February, when she was laid off from her H-1B
employer, according to Kelly McCown, an immigration lawyer with Tafapolsky Smith
Evans & McCown in San Francisco.

And, since H-1B status is employer-specific, she will need a new employer
sponsor to lawfully work in the United States or to extend her status beyond
Oct. 1, McCown said. Should she find a job by then, the best strategy is for the
new employer to file a new H-1B petition and request premium processing, which
generally will be resolved within 15 calendar days, McCown said.

This strategy is safer than filing a request to extend her H-1B status with the
new employer, McCown said.

Also, if she has not worked without authorization since her last U.S. entry, she
may be able to take advantage of a provision called "H-1B portability" while
awaiting approval of the H-1B petition filed by the new company, McCown said.

H-1B portability allows someone with valid H-1B status to begin working for a
new company upon filing of a new H-1B petition, McCown said.

The temporary work authorization under portability lasts only until the H-1B
petition is approved, however. At that point, she would need to travel out of
the United States to obtain her new I-94 card, McCown said.

Finally, although your fiancee has been living in the United States on a work
visa, that does not necessarily count toward the length of time required to
establish permanent residency. However, should you decide to marry, she would
immediately be eligible for permanent residency based on your filing of an
I-130, or immediate relative petition, on her behalf. If she resides in Santa
Clara County, her I-130 petition and permanent residency application should be
approved within six to eight months, McCown said.

Q
I'm a minor, and single. My father is a U.S. citizen who requested residency for
my sister and me. She has since received her green card, but I haven't. I missed
an interview with immigration officials because I never received an appointment
letter they sent, after I moved to a new address. Now my work permit has
expired. Someone told me I should start the paperwork all over again. What
should I do?

Federico
Union City
A
If you miss an appointment, contact the BCIS as soon as possible to try to
reschedule, said Hazel Marinero, an immigration attorney in Campbell. However,
if you missed the appointment because you forgot to report your latest address
to the BCIS, you could automatically forfeit your application for residency,
Marinero said.

At this point, your father could file the residency petition again, or you can
submit a "motion to reopen" the case, Marinero said. Either way, you should
consult an attorney, because being a minor and single could help your case,
Marinero said.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
