
                               1 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Mid-Atlantic: Pennsylvania: Anti-Immigration Law Blocked

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 85 words


A federal judge blocked a tough ordinance singling out illegal immigrants in
Hazelton. The ordinance, approved by the City Council in September and scheduled
to go into effect today, levies fines on landlords who rent to illegal
immigrants and denies business permits to companies that give them jobs. The
judge, James Munley of Federal District Court, ruled that landlords, tenants and
businesses that cater to Hispanics faced ''irreparable harm'' from the measure
and issued a restraining order through Nov. 14.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2006



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, a report in the National Briefing
column yesterday about a restraining order against an ordinance to fine
landlords who rent to illegal immigrants and deny business permits to companies
that employ them misspelled the Pennsylvania city that approved the ordinance.
It is Hazleton, not Hazelton.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 87 words


An article on Thursday about immigration issues in Texas, including bills to
deny state benefits to illegal immigrants and their children, referred
incorrectly to a Supreme Court decision on constitutional guarantees to children
of illegal immigrants and misstated its date. Ruling against the City of Tyler,
the court said that denying schooling to such children was a violation of the
14th Amendment's equal protection guarantee; it did not include health care as a
constitutional right. The decision was in 1982, not 1969.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 15, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Misery

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 456 words


A screaming baby girl has been forcibly weaned from breast milk and taken,
dehydrated, to an emergency room, so that the nation's borders will be secure.
Her mother and more than 300 other workers in a leather-goods factory in New
Bedford, Mass., have been terrorized -- subdued by guns and dogs, their children
stranded at school -- so that the country will notice that the Bush
administration is serious about enforcing immigration laws. Meanwhile, tens of
thousands of poor Americans, lacking the right citizenship papers, have been
denied a doctor's care so that not a penny of Medicaid will go to a sick illegal
immigrant.

As the country waits for Congress and the president to enact immigration reform,
the indecency of existing policies is becoming intolerable. The immigrant
underclass is in a growing state of misery and fear. States and localities have
rushed to fill the vacuum of Congressional inaction with a jumble of enforcement
regimes. Farmers are worrying about crops rotting as their immigrant workers
retreat further into the shadows. Officials in Colorado have settled on one
solution: replacing those workers with prison chain gangs.

Senator Edward Kennedy, infuriated after visiting a New Bedford church basement
and hearing tales of separated families and sick children, has given up on
drafting a new immigration bill. He has decided instead to get Congress moving
quickly by reintroducing a bill passed last year by the Senate Judiciary
Committee. That bill -- sponsored by Senator Arlen Specter, then the committee's
chairman -- was seriously flawed to start and further distorted by harsh
Republican amendments.

Mr. Kennedy clearly believes that the urgent priority is to get the bipartisan
coalition for immigration reform back on the bus and to fix problems while the
bus is moving. His frustrations are understandable, but he will have to work
hard to make sure that he and the bill do not compromise too much. And there is
a lot in the Specter bill to be concerned about. Parts of it were cut and pasted
from a cruel immigration bill that passed the House, including draconian
measures to speed immigrants' deportation and deny them protection in the
courts. It came with an arbitrary cutoff date, leaving anyone who arrived here
illegally after 2004 in the cold.

What is urgently needed is decency, proportionality and bipartisanship to
resolve this festering debate. Whenever and however the Senate revisits
immigration, the bottom line must be the same: a bill that combines border
security and workplace enforcement with diligent protection of workers' rights
and a path to citizenship for immigrants who work for it. The alternative, the
blundering and punitive status quo, is a path of misery.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 27, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush, Signing Bill for Border Fence, Urges Wider Overhaul

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT; Christopher Mason contributed reporting from Toronto.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 619 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26


President Bush signed into law on Thursday a bill providing for construction of
700 miles of added fencing along the Southwestern border, calling the
legislation ''an important step toward immigration reform.''

The new law is what most House Republicans wanted. But it is not what Senate
Republicans or Mr. Bush originally envisioned, and at the signing, in the
Roosevelt Room of the White House, the president repeated his call for a far
more extensive revamping of immigration law.

A broader measure, approved by the Senate last spring, would have not only
enhanced border security but also provided for a guest worker program and the
possibility of eventual citizenship for many illegal immigrants already in the
country.

But that bill was successfully resisted by House Republicans, who feared a voter
backlash against anything that smacked of ''amnesty'' for illegal immigrants.
Those lawmakers portrayed the Senate bill as embracing just that, no matter what
the measure's backers, including Mr. Bush, said to the contrary.

Eventually the president realized that a broad approach was dead for this
election year, and he bowed to political reality and embraced the House concept,
at least for the time being. On Sept. 29, just before its members headed home to
campaign, the Senate approved construction of 700 miles of fencing, which the
House had approved that month.

''I want to thank the members of Congress for their work on this important piece
of legislation,'' Mr. Bush said Thursday, greeting several lawmakers by name.
''Ours is a nation of immigrants. We're also a nation of law. Unfortunately, the
United States has not been in complete control of its borders for decades, and
therefore illegal immigration has been on the rise.''

The new law also provides for more vehicle barriers, checkpoints and advanced
technology to bolster border security. A previously enacted domestic security
spending bill provides $1.2 billion for the fence and the accompanying
technology.

The fence idea has caused friction between the United States and Mexico, as was
demonstrated again Thursday in Ottawa, where the Mexican president-elect, Felipe
Calderon, condemned it.

''Humanity made a huge mistake by building the Berlin Wall, and I believe that
today the United States is committing a grave error in building the wall on our
border,'' said Mr. Calderon, who was meeting with the Canadian prime minister,
Stephen Harper.

Some of the legislation's critics say the fence -- actually several separate
sections at a variety of places along the 2,000-mile border -- will not keep out
people desperate to cross. A foreign policy adviser to Mr. Calderon, Arturo
Sarukhan, told Canadian reporters on Wednesday that the fence would merely allow
smugglers of illegal migrants to charge them more.

In calling for a broader immigration overhaul, Mr. Bush said again Thursday that
his approach did not amount to amnesty.

''We must reduce pressure on our border by creating a temporary worker plan,''
he said. ''Willing workers ought to be matched with willing employers to do jobs
Americans are not doing for a temporary -- on a temporary -- basis. We must face
the reality that millions of illegal immigrants are already here. They should
not be given an automatic path to citizenship. That is amnesty. I oppose
amnesty.

''There is a rational middle ground between granting an automatic path to
citizenship for every illegal immigrant and a program of mass deportation, and I
look forward to working with Congress to find that middle ground.''

Any such search will almost surely have to await a new Congress. The chance that
it would be taken up in a lame-duck session after the elections is considered
remote.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 10, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democratic Victory Raises Spirits of Those Favoring Citizenship for Illegal
Aliens

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 ELECTIONS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1130 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Nov. 9


Supporters of granting citizenship to some or all illegal immigrants say the
Democratic takeover of Congress has galvanized their cause and could lead to
sweeping changes in immigration law.

Democrats will take over leadership of committees in the House and the Senate
that could guide new immigration legislation, while President Bush and the
presumptive House speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, have cast
changes to immigration laws as an opportunity to demonstrate bipartisan
bonhomie.

''We have never had the table set for the possibility of action as we do now,''
Andrea LaRue, a Democratic political consultant, said in a conference call with
reporters.

Some immigration experts, however, predict a more arduous debate. Although
conservative Republicans have led the opposition to accommodating some illegal
immigrants, a handful of the newly elected Democrats, including Claire A.
McCaskill of Missouri and Jim Webb of Virginia in the Senate, campaigned
promising a tough approach to illegal immigration.

Some Democratic incumbents who won re-election did the same.

''It is still a long way from a deal,'' said Roberto Suro of the Pew Hispanic
Center, a Washington research group. ''The question is, can somebody illuminate
a middle ground where people who come at this issue from all different
directions can reach a settlement.''

Supporters of more relaxed policies on illegal immigration count among the
casualties of the Democratic victory at least 11 House members who had opposed
giving illegal immigrants an opportunity to gain legal residency and,
ultimately, citizenship.

Representative J. D. Hayworth published a book on immigration titled ''Whatever
It Takes'' and campaigned heavily on a platform of sealing the border and
ejecting illegal immigrants.

Although Mr. Hayworth, a six-term Republican from the suburbs of Phoenix, has
not conceded defeat, unofficial tallies indicate that he has lost his seat by
four percentage points to a Democrat, Harry Mitchell.

Mr. Mitchell, who is a former mayor of Tempe, had said that a path to
citizenship made sense in some cases.

Also in Arizona, a self-described Minuteman border vigilante, Randy Graf, a
Republican seeking an open seat near the border, was soundly defeated by
Gabrielle Giffords, a Democrat willing to consider citizenship for some illegal
immigrants.

The Republican-controlled Congress failed to pass a broad immigration bill this
session, stuck over whether to provide steps toward citizenship for illegal
immigrants, although a measure calling for 700 miles of fencing on the
2,000-mile border was approved, with the backing of several Democrats, and
signed by Mr. Bush.

Many political analysts, however, called the fence an election-eve effort to
placate conservatives that stood little chance of being completely built.

Still, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington group
favoring tighter limits on immigration, said six state ballot initiatives making
life harder on illegal immigrants were approved by voters on Tuesday, four of
them in Arizona, where immigration is intensely discussed, and two in Colorado.

The Arizona measures include blocking illegal immigrants from collecting
punitive damages in civil lawsuits, being released on bail for serious felonies
and taking state-subsidized adult education and child care programs.

In Colorado, the measures require the state attorney general to sue the federal
government for failing to enforce immigration laws and deny tax credits to
employers who knowingly hire illegal workers.

Bruce Merrill, an Arizona State University pollster, said the measures were
popular because voters believed the federal government was not taking action.

''My feeling is that the frustration with nothing being done was so strong that
if there had been 10 initiatives dealing with cracking down on illegal
immigration, all 10 of them would have passed,'' Mr. Merrill said.

''In other words,'' he said, ''what the initiatives were proposing substantively
may not have been as important as giving people something, anything, they could
vote for to feel something was being done.''

Advocates of a get-tough approach said that despite their losses they had gained
in the battle of ideas.

''When the incumbent Democrat runs a race on securing the border and cutting
taxes, our ideas are doing just fine, let's remember that,'' said Len Munsil,
the Republican candidate for governor who was soundly defeated by the incumbent,
Janet Napolitano, a Democrat.

The governor had declared an emergency on the border last year and called for
National Guard troops to go there.

Senator Jon Kyl, a two-term Republican who supports a temporary guest worker
program but not provisions that would lead to citizenship for illegal workers
already here, won re-election by a healthy margin.

The final days of the race, however, focused less on immigration than on the
backgrounds of the contenders.

Still, immigration advocates said the Democratic gains had brought new energy to
a cause that seemed to flag after a round of demonstrations in the spring were
followed by disappointing results in legislation and voter registration drives
that fell short of goals.

The election ''shows what we have been saying all along, that the
anti-immigrant, enforcement-only rhetoric to motivate conservative voters was
not reflecting where the majority of Americans are on this issue,'' said Angela
Sembrano, director of the Central American Resource Center in Los Angeles, one
of the groups that helped organize large pro-immigrant marches in the spring.

Ms. Sembrano and other protest leaders said that, in the afterglow of election
night, they would refrain from detailing what they will ask of Democrats until
they meet with the new leadership in the coming weeks. But Chung-Wha Hong,
executive director the New York Immigration Coalition, said the goal would still
be ''legalization for as many people as possible.''

People on all sides of the immigration debate had watched Arizona closely
because illegal immigration has surged dramatically here in the past decade
while its politics drifted toward the center from the right.

Earl de Berge, a veteran pollster here, said Republicans who made a hard-line
approach the centerpiece of their campaigns misjudged a moderating shift.

''The fact is immigration was not, never has been, and is not the No. 1 issue in
this state,'' Mr. De Berge said. ''The big issues were the same as the ones
nationally, the war, the economy and Bush and so on.''

''The mistake Graf and Hayworth made,'' he said, ''is that they simply were
outmaneuvered by their own insistence on beating on that one issue.''

''This,'' he added, ''is a moderate state, not a conservative Republican
state.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Randy Graf, the loser in Arizona's Eighth District, got a pat
from a supporter. Representative J. D. Hayworth of Arizona and an election
official. (Photo by Matt York/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Greg Bryan/Arizona Daily Star, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration: Reform on Hold

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 342 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Signs of Hope on Immigration'' (editorial, Nov. 20):

It is astounding that after a year that featured historic marches and
increasingly agitated Americans, immigration reform hasn't progressed past
political ploys and posturing.

Businesses seeking a youthful, cheap labor face off against citizens deceived
into believing that American culture is at stake.

Caught in the middle are Latino organizations, excited about increased numbers
and power, yet powerless to salvage dignity for their largely impoverished and
uneducated members.

And where are the politicians, the only people capable of steering the country
to a sane resolution? They are either fanning people's fear, or ducking it.

Exploiting the illegal immigration problem as a wedge issue or cowering in the
shadows is a bust. The status quo, as you note, is leaving people in limbo and
encouraging a perpetual underclass at the expense of those who were enticed to
break the law in the first place by our nation's lust for cheap labor.

Wayne Trujillo
Lakewood, Colo., Nov. 20, 2006

The writer is an editor of Latino Suave.

To the Editor:

The issue isn't immigration. Virtually everyone favors immigration and realizes
that this country was built by immigrants from many countries.

No, the issue is illegal immigration. Your editorial seems to sidestep what's
making this issue so divisive: following the law.

What we should be focusing on is illegality. Are we a nation of laws, or aren't
we? Would we, as a country, attempt to excuse the violation of any other laws?
But that is what the McCain-Kennedy bill does, regardless of how many hoops are
created for violators to jump through to make their illegal actions legal.

The only reason Congress is either too timid to address this issue or offers
justification for illegal activity is that the size of the problem means there
will be political consequences. It's too bad that we don't have a Congress that
is smart enough (and has stomach enough) to simply enforce the law.

David Moorshead
Chicago, Nov. 20, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts Set for Its Officers to Enforce Immigration Law

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 518 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 12


Gov. Mitt Romney will sign an agreement with the federal government Wednesday
that gives the Massachusetts state police the authority to detain illegal
immigrants and charge them with violating immigration law, his office said
Tuesday.

The agreement will give 30 state troopers the power to interrogate people whom
they determine, during the course of criminal investigations, to be illegal
immigrants. The suspects can then be arrested without a warrant on the
immigration charge alone. Illegal immigrants about to be released from state
prison can also be detained.

Mr. Romney, a Republican who has been burnishing his conservative credentials as
he considers running for president, announced earlier this year that he intended
to enter the program. But although the agreement takes effect Wednesday, the
officers do not begin five weeks of specialized training until next month,
perhaps after he leaves office on Jan. 4.

And the governor's successor, Deval L. Patrick, a Democrat, has expressed doubts
about the program, saying at a news conference last week that it was a ''bad
idea'' to give troopers, who have ''enough to do,'' the additional
responsibility of enforcing immigration laws. Mr. Patrick's spokesman, Richard
Chacon, said Tuesday that the governor-elect wanted to study the agreement
before making a decision on whether to rescind it.

''He's not convinced that this is the right use of state police resources, and
for that reason he thinks it's a bad idea,'' Mr. Chacon said. ''His primary
concern is for sound public policy, and he will base whatever his final decision
is on that principle.''

Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, said: ''Governor Romney believes
that empowering state police to detain immigration violators is an effective
homeland security strategy. It's really another tool for law enforcement to use
in their investigations into criminal activity or suspicious behavior.''

Massachusetts would become the ninth jurisdiction to train its officers to
enforce federal immigration law. Alabama and Florida have agreements with the
federal government involving their state police, and Arizona has an agreement
involving corrections officers. Counties in California and North Carolina are
also participating in the program, which was created by the Illegal Immigration
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996.

''The goal of the partnership is to seek out those who both break our nation's
immigration laws and the laws of Massachusetts by engaging in criminal
activity,'' said Julie L. Myers, assistant homeland security secretary in charge
of Immigrations and Customs Enforcement.

The agreement has angered local immigrant advocacy groups. Ali Noorani,
executive director of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy
Coalition, said he hoped Mr. Patrick would rescind the accord, which, he
maintains, is a waste of law enforcement's time and money.

''He is mismanaging public safety,'' Mr. Noorani said of Mr. Romney.
''Unfortunately, on his way out the door he's taking one final punch at the most
disenfranchised, powerless community we have.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Local Agents Made Federal''The federal government has
agreements with eight local law enforcement and corrections agencies to train
and deputize their officers for immigration enforcement. Thirty more agreements
are in the works.Map of the United States showing the locations of:Riverside
County JailLos Angeles County JailSan Bernardino County JailOrange County
Sheriff's OfficeAlabama Department of Public SafetyArizona Department of
CorrectionsFlorida Department of Law EnforcementMecklenburg County, N.C.,
Sheriff's Office(Source by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts Rescinds Deal On Policing Immigration

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 11


Gov. Deval L. Patrick said Thursday that as expected, he had rescinded a new
agreement between Massachusetts and federal officials that empowered the state
police to arrest illegal immigrants on charges of violating immigration law.

The agreement was announced last month by Mitt Romney, who was then governor and
has since opened a campaign for the Republican presidential nomination in 2008.
Within nine days of the announcement, Mr. Patrick, as the Democratic
governor-elect, said he would void the accord on the ground that state troopers
already had enough to do enforcing Massachusetts statutes and should not have
the added responsibility of dealing with federal law.

Mr. Patrick said at a news conference Thursday that he would negotiate a new
agreement with Immigration and Customs Enforcement giving 12 Massachusetts
corrections officers the power to search for illegal immigrants in the state
prison system and report them to federal authorities for possible deportation.

These officers will be stationed at prisons in Concord and Framingham that
process all inmates in the system. The governor said he would consider
broadening this accord to include county and local jails, depending on what
happened at the state level.

Mr. Patrick said doing away with the arrangement negotiated by Mr. Romney would
allow state troopers to maintain a focus on gun-, drug- and gang-related crime.

''The wisest and most practical course,'' he said, ''is for state troopers to
focus on enforcing Massachusetts laws.''

The governor was joined at the news conference by the Massachusetts secretary of
public safety, Kevin M. Burke, who said state police officials had expressed
concern that the increased responsibilities would overburden their officers.

''It would definitely have affected, according to their analysis, their ability
to deal with their core mission'' of enforcing state law, Mr. Burke said.

There were no arrests under the Romney agreement, since, Mr. Patrick said, the
state troopers chosen to carry out the policy had not yet begun a required
six-week training course.

At least eight other jurisdictions have already partnered with the federal
government in helping enforce immigration law. Arizona and five counties in
California and North Carolina have agreements with Washington involving state
corrections officers, while Alabama and Florida have arrangements involving the
state police.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Who Gets to Be an American?

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 674 words


To the Editor:

''They Are America'' (editorial, Feb. 18) presents the illegal immigration
quandary in all of its guises, shapes and expressions. Political calculations
and national inertia are sentencing millions of illegal immigrants to purgatory.
Their sole salvation is the opportunity of earned citizenship.

Federal lawmakers continue to delay comprehensive immigration reform as they
straddle a political tightrope. In the meantime, businesses continue to exploit
workers while social conservatives continue to exploit fears.

We don't need a wall to keep illegal immigrants out of American society. We have
already erected a blockade.

In the aftermath of the recent raids, many illegal immigrants are discovering
that aspiring to the American dream can be a nightmare.Wayne TrujilloLakewood,
Colo., Feb. 18, 2007The writer is the editor of Latino Suave.To the Editor:

Your editorial about immigration does not address the very legitimate concerns
many Americans have about the proposals for comprehensive immigration reform by
the president and many in Congress.

There are many of us who remember the places of our childhood, where fields and
forests are now housing developments and shopping centers and highways. Surely
those in our government who advocate a ''liberal'' immigration policy have not
considered the disastrous social and environmental implications of adding many
millions to our present population.William A. NorthBirmingham, Ala., Feb. 18,
2007To the Editor:

We as a nation persist in the idea that ''those people'' are coming here to take
advantage of us. Do we really think that anyone would sink every resource into a
death walk through the desert if there were any other choice?

These people are the tired, the poor, the huddled masses. The lack of
opportunity the majority of the Mexican population faces is unbearable.

I recently returned from a trip to Mexico sponsored by the Evangelical Lutheran
Church in America. While there, we met with families and saw that a day's wages
for a worker lucky enough to have a job often won't buy a family a day's food.

We have learned from experience that we cannot rely on our leaders to give
humanity its due share in a contest with money and power. It is incumbent upon
those of us who recognize the human value of those caught in our very broken
system to speak, and to speak loudly, for them.Karin AlexandersonDoylestown,
Pa., Feb. 18, 2007To the Editor:

The immigrant is as American as apple pie. Our nation was built on the backs of
immigrants, and our future depends upon them as well.

Our policy concerning immigration ought to reflect that reality and not the
stupidity and ignorance spawned by fear.Bruce NeumanSag Harbor, N.Y., Feb. 18,
2007To the Editor:

Your editorial says that ''as much as we claim to be a nation of immigrants, we
have thwarted them at every turn.'' We do not thwart them. Every year, this
country is very generous compared with other countries in the number of
immigrants and refugees admitted.

In 1986, the last time Congress ''fixed'' illegal immigration, a ''one time''
amnesty was granted to three million undocumented workers. One of the traditions
of our immigrant nation is respect for the law. We should not reward lawbreakers
with another amnesty, no matter what it is called.

Any amnesty will encourage even more to enter this country illegally and reward
businesses by allowing them to use illegal workers, further depressing the wages
of American citizens.Robert F. LaPortaDix Hills, N.Y., Feb. 18, 2007To the
Editor:

Whenever I encounter recent immigrants, I ask where they came from. Their
answers are sometimes cautious, sometimes bold. Either way, I always reply that
I am glad they came. ''It's people like you who have made America a great
country,'' I tell them.

I can only guess whether the look on their faces means that I have complimented
them, their country of origin or America. But I can't even begin to tell you how
good it makes me feel to be an American.Jeff SmithBellevue, Wash., Feb. 18, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Keith Negley)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Aides Pledge Work for Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28


Two senior Bush administration officials vowed on Wednesday to work with
Congress to ensure passage of immigration legislation this year but publicly
distanced themselves from proposals that would place most illegal immigrants on
a path to citizenship.

Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez and Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff suggested that offering temporary legal status, instead of citizenship,
to illegal immigrants would be enough to persuade them to emerge from the
shadows and register with the government, which has been a key national security
goal.

The officials were testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee as lawmakers
worked out the final details of a broad immigration bill that could be
introduced in the Senate as early as next week. Last year, the Senate passed
bipartisan immigration legislation that would have provided citizenship to most
illegal immigrants who paid fines and back taxes and learned English.

That legislation stalled in the face of fierce opposition from House
Republicans, but this year's bill is expected to include a similar proposal.
Democrats and Republicans believe that prospects for passage are far better in
this Democratic-controlled Congress, but the contentious debate over citizenship
underscores the difficulties ahead.

The citizenship measure has been derided by conservatives as amnesty and hailed
by some Democrats, Republicans and immigrant advocates as a provision that will
encourage millions of illegal immigrants to come forward. In August, President
Bush suggested that he supported such proposals, saying they sounded like ''a
reasonable way to treat people with respect.''

But on Wednesday, Mr. Gutierrez and Mr. Chertoff declined to endorse the
measure. Mr. Gutierrez said many illegal immigrants might prefer working here
for several years and returning home.

''That is something we need to discuss, we need to think through,'' Mr.
Gutierrez said. ''There is a path today to citizenship, so it is not as if we
need to create a new path to citizenship.''

''What people want first and foremost is legal status,'' he said. ''I'm not sure
everybody wants to be a U.S. citizen. Many just want to be able to work. And if
they can work legally, one day they would like to go back home.''

Mr. Chertoff noted that only about a third of the illegal immigrants granted
legal status as a result of legislation passed in 1986 actually ended up
applying for citizenship. ''A significant majority did not become citizens,'' he
said.

It was unclear whether the officials were simply trying to ease conservative
concerns about the citizenship question or whether Mr. Bush had actually shifted
his position. Scott Stanzel, a White House spokesman, said Mr. Bush still
supported a path to citizenship that would include payments of fines back taxes
and a requirement to learn English, among other things. But it seemed unlikely
that the two cabinet secretaries would make such remarks without first
consulting the White House.

But advocates for immigrants warned that legislation without a path to
citizenship would be unacceptable to many Democrats and some Republicans. They
also objected to another proposal suggested by Mr. Chertoff, which would limit
judicial review of decisions made by immigration officials determining
eligibility for the legalization program.

''Without the inclusion of a path to citizenship in a legalization program, you
are essentially creating a permanent underclass in our country,'' said Bishop
Gerald Barnes of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops Committee on
Migration.

Lawmakers also highlighted other concerns. Senator Arlen Specter, the
Pennsylvania Republican who was a key architect of last year's bill, complained
that he and other Republicans were being shut out of negotiations over the new
legislation.

Meanwhile, Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who supported the
bill last year, said she now believed it was overly broad and susceptible to
fraud.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, said Mr. Bush would have to ensure that lawmakers came together.
''It's not going to be an easy process,'' Mr. Leahy said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Fair Immigration Reform Movement, in T-shirts,
listened to the questioning of two Administration officials yesterday. (Photo by
Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 2, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Path to Citizenship

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 426 words


On Wednesday, Congress took its first crack at immigration reform since the
great nothing of 2006. The Senate Judiciary Committee invited Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez to testify on
the issue. With a new Congress and a new comprehensive immigration bill expected
to be introduced in the Senate within days, the hearing could have been the
first spark of a rejuvenated campaign by an alliance of Congressional Democrats,
moderate Republicans and the Bush administration to finally solve a problem that
has festered for too long.

It wasn't. That's because both Mr. Chertoff and Mr. Gutierrez slunk away from a
central pillar of comprehensive reform: a path to citizenship that would give
illegal immigrants -- the ones who wait and prove they deserve it -- the chance
to participate fully and proudly in the life of this country.

Polls show that most Americans would let illegal immigrants get right with the
law and become Americans, too, if they have clean records, learn English and pay
back taxes and fines. Weighed against keeping the shadowy status quo or
deporting 12 million people, a citizenship path strikes them as a proper blend
of justice and common sense. Last year's stalled Senate bill took this approach,
and it will surely be central to any new legislation.

But the idea sticks in the craws of the members of a vocal, mostly Republican
faction that wants every door to opportunity for illegal immigrants shut and
locked, except the one marked ''guest workers.'' Those they would keep because
they don't mind having an underclass of docile, ill-paid foreigners who do
America's dirtiest jobs and then go home.

There is a place for some temporary workers in the American economy. But such
programs are highly prone to abuse and are not a solution for the vast numbers
of illegal immigrants already here.

Mr. Gutierrez and Mr. Chertoff enthusiastically talked up guest-worker programs
on Wednesday, but pointedly left citizenship off the table. They could have been
talking tactically, working at President Bush's behest to soothe the passions of
skeptical Republicans. But there must be a limit to the accommodations given to
anti-amnesty ideologues. If Mr. Bush has the stomach to fight for the real
reform he says he wants, he is hiding it well.

Mr. Bush said nothing about a path to citizenship in his State of the Union
address in January. If he is too weakened to stand up for comprehensive reform,
then Democrats and Republicans in Congress need to unite and do it for him.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kennedy, Eager for Republican Support, Shifts Tactics on an Immigration Measure

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12


Facing a rebellion from some crucial Republicans, Senator Edward M. Kennedy has
abandoned efforts to produce a new immigration bill and is proposing using
legislation produced last March by the Senate Judiciary Committee, then
controlled by Republicans, as the starting point for negotiations this year,
lawmakers said Monday.

Mr. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who is a principal architect of
immigration legislation in the Senate, now controlled by Democrats, said he was
shifting gears in hopes of winning Republican support and speeding the passage
of immigration legislation this spring. Four of 10 Republicans on the Senate
Judiciary Committee voted last year for the committee's bill, which would
tighten border security, create a temporary worker program and legalize illegal
immigrants.

President Bush said Monday in Guatemala that he hoped to see an immigration bill
completed by the fall and that he was working with Republicans to define a
position most could support. ''If we don't have enough consensus,'' Mr. Bush
said, ''nothing is going to move out of the Senate.''

Mr. Kennedy and a Republican colleague, Senator John McCain of Arizona, had
spent several months trying to produce a new immigration bill that was expected
to be introduced this month. But several Republicans protested that they had
been shut out of the negotiations. They began drafting their own bill, led by
Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, the Republican moderate who led the
debate on immigration in the Judiciary Committee last year.

Meanwhile, Mr. McCain, who led Republican lawmakers in championing immigration
legislation last year, has appeared to be backing away from that role, several
Congressional aides said.

Conservatives have sharply criticized Mr. McCain, a leading Republican
presidential candidate, for supporting efforts to put illegal immigrants on a
path to citizenship.

Senior aides in both parties said Mr. McCain told several colleagues last week
that he was stepping away from the bill because he was troubled by labor
provisions it included. Eileen McMenamin, a spokeswoman for Mr. McCain, disputed
that assertion, saying he ''remains committed to passing a comprehensive
immigration bill.''

Mr. Kennedy said that he hoped Mr. McCain would continue to be deeply involved
in the push for immigration legislation but that he would ''certainly
understand'' if he could not be, given the demands of the presidential campaign.

''We will value as much time and effort and energy as he can put into this,''
Mr. Kennedy said in an interview. ''I recognize that he's a presidential
candidate and that's going to take a big part of his time.''

Mr. Kennedy dismissed the notion that his efforts to produce a new immigration
bill had failed. He said he had decided that the committee report was ''the best
starting point'' because it had bipartisan support and because it would allow
lawmakers to move swiftly toward passage, with a vote as early as May.

''We've had extensive hearings on the essential aspects of this bill,'' Mr.
Kennedy said. ''We are effectively ready for markup and going to the floor.''

Mr. Specter, who said Mr. Kennedy first suggested the new approach on the Senate
floor on Friday, said he was still weighing whether to support it. He said he
and several Republican lawmakers had met with White House officials when it
became clear they would not be included in the negotiations between Mr. Kennedy
and Mr. McCain.

''We've gotten fairly far along on the outlines of a bill,'' said Mr. Specter.
''Nonetheless, I think it is desirable to work jointly with the Democrats.''

Mr. Specter said he would consult with his Republican colleagues and White House
officials before deciding. The bill passed by the Judiciary Committee did not
include several measures included in last year's Senate legislation, including a
provision to compel several million illegal immigrants to leave the United
States before applying for citizenship.

Mr. McCain declined a request for an interview, but Ms. McMenamin said he
supported Mr. Kennedy's approach. ''The most important thing is that they come
to some sort of consensus on immigration reform,'' she said. ''This is a good
way to arrive at it.'' She said Mr. McCain had told his staff to remain deeply
involved in negotiations on the legislation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Doubts Arise on Immigration Bill's Chances

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22


House lawmakers stood before the television cameras on Thursday and hailed the
introduction of a new measure to secure the border and move millions of illegal
immigrants toward citizenship.

But behind the scenes, there was much more uncertainty than celebration among
proponents of what would be the most substantial overhaul of immigration laws in
two decades.

Three months into the new Congress, immigration legislation is hitting some
unexpected roadblocks. A mix of presidential politics and unforeseen fissures
between Democrats and their Republican allies has stalled movement in the
Senate.

Key lawmakers in both chambers seem to be moving to the right to assuage
conservatives who helped derail immigration legislation last year. Now there are
doubts as to whether Congress will actually send an immigration bill to
President Bush this year.

Only a few months ago, Democrats and Republicans alike were predicting that
immigration legislation would move relatively smoothly -- with bipartisan
support -- through the new Democratic-controlled Congress. Lawmakers and
advocates for immigrants remain hopeful that that can still happen, but they
said the political environment had changed.

''I don't know why we were so naive to think that things were going to go so
swimmingly,'' said Michele Waslin of the National Council of La Raza, an
immigration advocacy group, who addressed concerns about the stalemate in the
Senate. ''I sincerely hope the process gets back on track very soon.''

Democratic leaders say Republican backing is critical, both to ensure passage of
a bill in the Senate and to protect newly elected moderate and conservative
Democrats in the House, some of whom campaigned against legalizing illegal
immigrants.

Democrats and Republicans stood side by side at the House news conference
Thursday. But the possibility of a partisan rift remains palpable, particularly
in the Senate.

Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who is running for president, has
distanced himself from Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat, as
Mr. McCain has faced a barrage of criticism from conservatives who oppose his
support of the legalization of illegal immigrants. The two men joined forces
last year to help pass the Senate bill, which would have put most of the
nation's illegal aliens on a path to citizenship.

Mr. Kennedy has suggested a plan on his own, but his Republican allies have yet
to embrace it. Angered by Mr. Kennedy's decision to exclude him and other
moderates from early negotiations, Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of
Pennsylvania and an architect of last year's bill, is now leading a group of
Republicans in drafting a competing set of immigration principles in
consultation with the White House. A Senate vote on immigration, which was
expected next month, may not take place now until May or June.

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said the discussions between
Republican lawmakers and White House officials might result in an agreement
markedly different from last year's Senate bill.

The statement of Republican principles under consideration may eliminate a path
to citizenship for guest workers and require illegal immigrants to leave the
country before becoming eligible for permanent residence, measures that Mr.
Cornyn acknowledged might prove toxic to some Democrats.

''It could well move in a direction that will not result in a bill,'' said Mr.
Cornyn, who criticized last year's Senate bill as an amnesty for lawbreakers.
''It's a delicate negotiation, still very much a work in progress.''

Mr. Specter said he still supported last year's Senate bill, allowing guest
workers and illegal immigrants to move toward citizenship. But he, too, said the
Republican consensus position might be quite different.

As to whether it would be acceptable to Senate Democrats, Mr. Specter said,
''It's too soon to say.''

The new House bill would also require the majority of illegal immigrants to
leave the country before they could move toward citizenship, a requirement
opposed by many employers and union leaders.

''If the process doesn't work and it strands people outside the country, the
word will get around and people will stay in a subterranean economy,'' said
Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce.

The House bill, which is sponsored by Representatives Luis V. Gutierrez,
Democrat of Illinois, and Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, would give illegal
immigrants six years to leave the United States and re-enter legally.

The bill would also allow 400,000 to 600,000 foreigners to participate each year
in a new temporary worker program. Both programs would include a path to
citizenship and would begin after border security measures and other conditions
were in place.

Despite his concerns, Mr. Johnson praised the bill as a step in the right
direction. Mr. Kennedy said he hoped it would prod the Senate to ''forge the
right kind of compromise.'' Mr. Flake agreed, saying he still hoped lawmakers
would send a bill to Mr. Bush by the fall.

''The fact that we're moving in the House will jump-start the Senate a little,''
Mr. Flake said. ''There's still time.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John McCain last year, when
allied on an immigration bill. Mr. McCain is now keeping his distance. (Photo by
Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Georgia: Airport Workers Arrested

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 121 words


Federal authorities said they had arrested six illegal immigrants who had
security badges that gave them access to the tarmac and other restricted areas
at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agents arrested the men, all Mexicans employed by T. C. Drywall
Inc., as they reported to work at the airport, said Marc Raimondi, a spokesman
for the agency. Immigration officials said the men had recently been hired to
install drywall inside the airport's secure area. They will appear before an
immigration judge and face deportation. Immigration officials said they were
concerned that illegal immigrants had access to a secure area, although the men
did not pose a specific threat.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 7, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Altoona, With No Immigrant Problem, Decides to Solve It

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: ALTOONA, Pa., Nov. 30


By now the pattern is familiar. New businesses move to town, creating
low-paying, low-skill jobs that are quickly filled by immigrants. Most are
Hispanics who speak little English. Some may be in the country illegally. After
a few years, local leaders fume that school enrollment has surged, social
services are stretched and crime has increased, and they blame the illegal
immigrants.

Since June, when Hazleton, Pa., some 130 miles east of here, began debating what
to do about illegal immigrants, more than 60 local governments in 21 states have
followed its lead and considered new ordinances to drive them away. At least 15
have approved the measures, typically intended to punish landlords who rent to
illegal immigrants and business owners who employ them.

Altoona, an old railroad town nestled in an Appalachian Mountain valley about
100 miles east of Pittsburgh, is one of those 15. It approved its ordinance,
which threatens to withdraw the business licenses of employers and rental
licenses of landlords who hire or rent to illegal immigrants, in October. But it
does not fit the same pattern.

''If you were to look for the area for the fewest immigrant settlements in the
country, you would look to south central Pennsylvania,'' said Steven A.
Camarota, director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies, a
research organization in Washington that favors tougher immigration policies.
''There just aren't many immigrants -- legal or illegal -- around Altoona
because there aren't many jobs.''

If Hazleton, where the immigrant population grew sharply in just a few years,
started the current trend for dealing with a surge in illegal immigrants,
Altoona may be the beginning of the next wave: trying to prevent a situation
from developing in the first place.

''We don't have a problem here with immigrants,'' said Joe Rieker, 40, one of
five members of the Altoona City Council who voted in favor of the new
ordinance. ''But we want to stay ahead of the curve.'' One member voted against.

When places like Altoona pass such laws, it is a sign of a growing frustration
with the federal government's lack of immigration enforcement, said Ira Mehlman,
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform. The group's legal
arm, the Immigration Reform Law Institute, has aided several towns, including
Altoona, in writing similar laws.

''We certainly hope we see more towns like Altoona'' approving ordinances
restricting illegal immigrants, Mr. Mehlman said. ''And as the message gets out
that there aren't a lot of communities that are welcoming, it will be a
deterrent.''

But the legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union in Pennsylvania,
Vic Walczak, worries that a different message is being sent.

''When you have towns like Altoona enacting a solution in search of a problem,
you worry if there's a nativist impulse there,'' Mr. Walczak said. ''There's a
fair bit of politics involved here, and illegal immigrants are an easy and
effective scapegoat for a small town's problems.''

Founded in 1849 by the Pennsylvania Railroad, Altoona grew as waves of German,
Irish and Italian immigrants moved here. But immigrants have long since bypassed
Altoona as the city's economic fortunes dwindled along with those of the
railroad business. In the 2000 census, the city had just 295 foreign-born
residents, about one-half of 1 percent of its 49,523 residents, and no one
thinks that figure has changed much over the past six years.

''You see a car here with four Mexicans in it, I do feel bad about it, but they
do stand out in an area that's mostly white and of European descent,'' said Mr.
Rieker, whose wife, Vanessa, is a Peruvian immigrant going through the lengthy
and complex process of becoming a United States citizen.

But Altoona does have at least one factor in common with Hazleton: both
ordinances were passed after local killings that have been attributed to illegal
immigrants.

In Hazleton, a local man was shot and killed in May. Two illegal immigrants from
the Dominican Republic have been charged in his death.

In Altoona, Miguel Padilla, 27, was convicted in September in the killings of
three men outside a nightclub on Aug. 28, 2005. Though he had moved to a nearby
town as a boy and graduated from a high school there, Mr. Padilla was an illegal
immigrant from Mexico. He had previously been arrested and his illegal status
had been reported to the federal government.

Mayor Wayne Hippo and other members of the Council have said the Padilla case
had nothing to do with the city's ordinance.

But for local residents who support the ordinance, the murders were the biggest
reason Altoona needed the ordinance.

''We just had three murders here,'' Sandy Serbello, 64, a lifelong resident said
in explaining her support of the measure. ''We look at everybody differently
now.''

Ms. Serbello said she avoided talking to anyone she suspected of being an
illegal immigrant, ''because we don't want to be one of their victims.''

That is the kind of sentiment that worries the Rev. Luke Robertson, executive
director of Catholic Charities in Altoona, which along with the local Roman
Catholic diocese strongly opposed the ordinance.

''I don't think they thought through the unintended consequences,'' said Father
Robertson, 49, a Franciscan priest. ''It promotes bigotry.''

Moreover, said Bishop Joseph V. Adamec of the diocese, the ordinance could
discourage businesses from opening in or relocating to Altoona when Interstate
99, which runs through town, is completed, connecting Interstates 80 and 76.

''They're not going to build here if we aren't welcoming,'' said Bishop Adamec,
who has overseen the diocese for 19 years.

He is not swayed by those who say that the three murders might have been
prevented if the ordinance had been in effect in 2005.

''The one who did it, he came here when he was a boy and went to our schools,''
Bishop Adamec said. ''He didn't come here already formed. He's one of us.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vanessa Rieker, originally from Peru, and her husband, Joe, a
City Council member, say they approve of Altoona's new ordinance involving
illegal immigrants. (Photo by Kalim A. Bhatti for The New York Times)Map of
Pennsylvania highlighting Altoona.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 22, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Governor To Drop Pact On Immigrants

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 21


Gov.-elect Deval L. Patrick said Thursday that on taking office he would rescind
an accord with Washington that gives the state police the authority to detain
illegal immigrants and charge them with violating immigration law.

Mr. Patrick told reporters that the immigration agency did not want state
troopers to enforce federal law.

''I also understand the I.N.S. isn't interested in sharing their enforcement
powers,'' he said, referring to the former immigration agency.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Patrick later said he misspoke. A spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement would not comment.

The agreement, which Gov. Mitt Romney signed on Dec. 13, gave 30 state troopers
the power to question, detain and arrest people whom they found in the course of
other investigations to be illegal immigrants.

Although the order took effect on being signed, the troopers are not scheduled
to train for the program until next month.

Mr. Patrick, a Democrat who takes office on Jan. 4, has said he thinks the
troopers have enough to do and should not be enforcing federal law.

''If I have that power, I'm going to rescind that agreement,'' he told
reporters. ''I do believe I have that power.''

A spokeswoman for Mr. Patrick, Cyndi Roy, said she did not know when he would
void the agreement.

''I think going forward he'll be able to set out a timeline,'' Ms. Roy said.
''He has a lot to accomplish in his first couple of months in office, and I
don't know that it will be the very first thing he does.''

Mr. Romney, a Republican who is exploring a presidential bid and has hardened
his stance on illegal immigration, announced his intention to form the
partnership this year.

''The scope of our nation's illegal immigration problem requires us to pursue
and implement new solutions wherever possible,'' Mr. Romney said last week in a
statement. A spokesman for Mr. Romney did not return a call for comment on
rescinding the agreement.

Massachusetts was the ninth jurisdiction to have an agreement with Washington on
illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 27, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Challenge To Ordinance On Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 93 words


Two civil rights groups filed a lawsuit challenging a Dallas suburb's new
ordinance that outlaws renting homes to illegal immigrants, arguing that it
violates federal law and forces landlords to act as immigration officers. The
groups, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the American
Civil Liberties Union, filed the suit on behalf of residents and landlords in
Farmers Branch. The ordinance, along with a measure that made English the
official language of the city, was passed in November and is scheduled to go
into effect Jan. 12.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. May Be Mishandling Asylum Seekers, Panel Says

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 746 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7


A bipartisan federal commission warned on Wednesday that the Bush
administration, in its zeal to secure the nation's borders and stem the tide of
illegal immigrants, may be leaving asylum seekers vulnerable to deportation and
harsh treatment.

The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, which Congress
asked to assess asylum regulations, found two years ago that some immigration
officials were improperly processing asylum seekers for deportation. The
commission, which also found that asylum seekers were often strip-searched,
shackled and held in jails, called for safeguards in the system of speedy
deportations known as expedited removal, to protect those fleeing persecution.

But the commission, which will issue its new findings on Thursday, says
officials have failed to put into effect most of its 2005 recommendations. It
says the failures come even as the Bush administration has significantly
expanded efforts to detain and swiftly deport illegal immigrants from countries
other than Mexico without letting them make their case before an immigration
judge.

''We are clearly concerned as to whether, in addition to prioritizing secure
borders, the government is ensuring fair and humane treatment of legitimate
asylum seekers,'' said Felice D. Gaer, who is head of the commission, which was
created by Congress in 1998. ''We are really quite disappointed and dismayed by
the lack of a response.''

Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut independent who is chairman of the
Senate Homeland Security Committee, also expressed concern about the slow pace
of change. Mr. Lieberman said he planned to introduce legislation by March to
require the Department of Homeland Security to adopt several of the commission's
main recommendations.

Officials from the Homeland Security Department emphasized that they had put
into effect some recommendations, including naming the first senior adviser for
refugee and asylum policy and updating training for immigration officers,
detention workers and other personnel.

But they said many other recommendations were impractical given the challenges
in trying to stop illegal immigrants from pouring into the country.

''We have taken their report seriously,'' said Stewart A. Baker, an assistant
secretary of homeland security. ''But some of their recommendations just weren't
practical given the enormous flood of illegal immigrants that we deal with every
day.''

Mr. Baker said the department looked forward to working with Mr. Lieberman and
would review his measure after it had been introduced.

In its report, the commission praised the Justice Department, which oversees
immigration courts, for training immigration judges on asylum law, expanding the
number of legal orientation programs for detained immigrants and trying to
improve immigration court decisions.

But the commission was sharply critical of the Department of Homeland Security,
whose border agents and immigration officers interview asylum seekers at
airports or land crossings.

Domestic security regulations require that immigration officials refer an
illegal immigrant for what is known as a credible-fear interview if the
immigrant indicates ''an intention to apply for asylum, a fear of torture or a
fear of return to his or her country.'' The asylum seeker is then removed from
the expedited removal process so an immigration judge can review the claim.

But the commission found no evidence that domestic security officials had taken
steps to ensure that agents advised immigrants to ask for such protection or to
ensure that agents did not deport immigrants who express fear of deportation.

The commission also found no indication that the Department of Homeland Security
had taken steps to ensure that asylum seekers were not treated like criminals
while their claims were being evaluated. Mr. Stewart said that it would be too
burdensome to create a separate detention program for asylum seekers and that
such a system might create incentives for people to claim that they were fleeing
persecution.

Eleanor Acer of Human Rights First said the failure to address such problems
promptly had ''real human consequences.''

''Asylum seekers continue to be jailed in these prisonlike facilities for months
and, in some cases, for years,'' Ms. Acer said.

The commission also expressed concern that officials chose to expand the
expedited removal process before addressing the problems in the handling of
asylum seekers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suffolk Plans A Crackdown On Laborers There Illegally

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y., Feb. 28


Warning that the proliferation of illegal immigrants is threatening the basic
harmony and quality of life in the suburbs of Long Island, the Suffolk County
executive, Steve Levy, outlined a list of initiatives on Wednesday to limit the
influx, including a crackdown on day laborers and contractors and the assignment
of federal immigration officials to the county jail.

Flanked by other politicians and law enforcement officials, Mr. Levy charged
that illegal immigrants were hurting the county's economy by driving down wages
''that would otherwise be paid to legal residents, immigrants or not.''

Illegal immigrants, he said, are driving up costs for schools, hospitals, jails,
courts and the police, and Suffolk taxpayers are ''unnecessarily footing the
bill.''

News of the initiatives brought an immediate outcry from immigrant advocacy
groups and Hispanic leaders, who have said that Mr. Levy's stance smacks of
bigotry.

With the illegal immigration issue increasingly playing out in suburban
settings, Mr. Levy, a co-founder of a national coalition called Mayors and
Executives for Immigration Reform, has attracted a national spotlight because of
his hard-line stance on the subject. He insists that the federal government has
failed to address the problems of illegal immigration or to stem the flow of
undocumented immigrants, and that local governments must take up the slack.

Mr. Levy said that after two years of discussion, he had persuaded federal
immigration officials to assign four enforcement officers to work full time in
the county jail system to deal with inmates who are in the United States
illegally.

He said that anti-loitering legislation to prohibit traffic obstruction would
help clear day laborers off the roadsides and street corners.

In addition, he said there would be a seminar on March 14 at which county
officials would explain to business owners a county law enacted in October that
requires companies contracting with Suffolk County to verify that their
employees are in the country legally, a move that he said would affect more than
6,000 companies and agencies.

He said the policy of having county police officers look into the legal
residency of anyone arrested and having them check the names against a federal
database of illegal immigrants resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of
illegal immigrants turned over for deportation.

The aim of all these measures, he said, is to protect residents who ''do not
want to see their neighborhood turned upside down.''

He estimated that of the 1.5 million people living in the county, 40,000 were
illegal immigrants.

Saying that federal immigration policy failed to address illegal immigration, he
added, ''We're trying to chip away at the problem'' by creating local
legislation.

''There's frustration on the local level regarding our nation's broken
borders,'' Mr. Levy said, calling the county initiatives an attempt to ''blaze
the trail'' against widespread immigration problems.

Jack Eddington, a Democratic county legislator and a co-sponsor of the
anti-loitering legislation, told reporters that the problems of rising taxes and
illegal immigration were ''two sides of the same coin,'' and warned illegal
immigrants, ''You better beware.''

''If you're here in Suffolk County illegally, you will not stay here,'' Mr.
Eddington said. ''If you are on the street looking for work and causing unsafe
conditions, you will not stay. Suffolk County residents will not be victimized
anymore.''

Another co-sponsor, Joseph T. Caracappa, Republican of Selden, said that
taxpayers had ''had enough'' and that people had begun to move out of the
county.

''Go down your block and see all the For Sale signs,'' he said.

Mr. Levy said that in 2004, the police informed federal authorities about 44
people who seemed to lack legal residency. In 2005, the number increased to
1,063. In 2006, it rose to 2,287.

Sheriff Vincent DeMarco outlined the county's new Criminal Alien Program, which
would give federal immigration officials ''access to our jail management
system.''

He said that roughly 10 percent of the 1,764 inmates in the county jail system
seemed to be in the country illegally. Most of them are supposed to be turned
over to federal authorities, he said, but in the meantime must be kept in county
jails, costing the county $200 a day for each one.

''We want them out of county jails and into federal prisons ASAP,'' he said.

The sheriff said that when people were arrested who could not show any legal
residency status, ''the majority of them admit how they got in, believe it or
not.''

Currently, federal immigration authorities must visit the jail to interview and
pick up immigrants, but often the lag in waiting times allows some inmates to be
bailed out or ''slip through the cracks,'' Mr. Levy said. Having officials
assigned to the jail would make the process more efficient, he said.

Mr. Levy has been accused by Latino leaders and immigrant advocates of failing
to reach out to Spanish-speaking communities and of fostering racism against
Latinos. They say that such attitudes led to the 2000 case in which two white
men lured two Mexican day laborers to an abandoned warehouse with a promise of
work and then beat them.

The Latino leaders called the anti-loitering law an attempt to criminalize
''standing while Latino.''

''He's attacking a community for political gain,'' said Nadia Marin-Molina,
executive director of the Workplace Project, a Latino advocacy group with
offices in Hempstead and Farmingville. ''He's making sure the public remembers
that he is anti-immigrant. He's playing to anti-immigrant sentiment for
political gain, just to get additional votes. Suffolk County has low wages and a
high cost of living, and he's telling them to blame the immigrants.''

''We've tried to meet with him, but he's refused,'' Ms. Marin-Molina said. ''He
won't work with us and won't do anything to address the real issues. He'll only
attack us.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Laws And Enforcement

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 115 words


To the Editor:

Local officials are not the problem when it comes to illegal immigrants (''Anger
and Incompetence,'' editorial, Feb. 11). What is truly maddening is the refusal
of officials in Washington to enforce our immigration laws and address the
illegal immigrant situation in towns like Farmingville.

Illegal immigrants have been gathering on the streets of that community,
loitering, violating immigration laws and bringing down the quality of life of
the neighborhood since at least 1998. It has been left to local officials to do
what they can to make sure people illegally in the United States respect our
laws because the federal government has failed to do so.Mike GirardoCentereach

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

City's Immigration Restrictions Go on Trial

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 867 words

DATELINE: SCRANTON, Pa., March 12


In a test case about the power of cities to crack down on illegal immigration, a
federal trial opened here Monday in which municipal restrictions in Hazleton,
Pa., are being challenged as discriminatory and overreaching.

City officials in Hazleton were the first in the country to adopt ordinances
intended to drive away illegal immigrants by punishing local landlords for
renting to them and employers for giving them jobs. The restrictions, which have
yet to take effect, have been imitated by at least 80 towns and cities.

''The city has responded rationally to a very real threat,'' Kris W. Kobach, a
law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, said in the opening
statement on behalf of Hazleton. Mr. Kobach described a surge in violent crime
and gang warfare since 2005 that city officials attribute to a growing
population of illegal immigrants.

The trial, before Judge James M. Munley of Federal District Court, is the result
of a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union and the Puerto Rican Legal
Defense and Education Fund. It is the first challenge to the municipal
ordinances across the country to be heard in a federal trial.

The rights groups say the ordinances encourage discrimination against Hispanic
residents, violate federal and state housing laws, and overstep the powers of a
local government to deal with immigration, which has been almost exclusively a
federal matter.

Witold Walczak, the legal director for the Pennsylvania A.C.L.U., said Hazleton
did not have the authority to inquire into its residents' immigration status.
''Law regarding immigration can and must be passed only by Congress,'' Mr.
Walczak said in an opening statement, warning that the ordinances could unleash
racial vendettas in which neighbors would make complaints about Hispanic
residents based on their appearance.

Judge Munley's ruling could be a major marker of how far local governments can
go to limit illegal immigration. In another closely watched case, a state court
judge in St. Louis on Monday struck down similar employment and housing laws
adopted by Valley Park, Mo., a suburb of St. Louis.

In that case, the blunt ruling by the judge, Barbara W. Wallace, means that ''as
a matter of state law, no city in Missouri should be doing this,'' said Linda M.
Martinez, one of the lawyers who brought the challenge.

Most of the ordinances that followed Hazleton's have faced state and federal
challenges. So far, not one of the tougher measures has gone into effect,
according to a roster compiled by the Puerto Rican rights group.

After first adopting the ordinances last July, Hazleton revised them several
times in response to questions raised by opponents. City officials announced
another revision on Monday, saying they would eliminate two words that appeared
to leave open the possibility that complaints could be brought against tenants
solely on racial grounds.

Hazleton's mayor, Louis J. Barletta, the driving force behind the laws, said his
basic purpose remained the same: to make Hazleton hostile territory for illegal
immigrants.

''Illegal is illegal,'' Mr. Barletta said in an interview. ''There is no race in
illegal.''

Mr. Barletta said he was spurred to action last year by the daytime shooting
death of a Hazleton man, Derek Kichline, in which two illegal immigrants have
been accused.

One ordinance withholds business licenses from employers who knowingly hire
illegal workers. Another requires all tenants to register with City Hall,
presenting proof of identification that the authorities can check against
federal databases.

Mr. Barletta said that some Hispanic businesses had complained of losing
customers and that some immigrants had moved away.

''We witnessed many people leaving in the dark of night,'' he said. ''We have to
assume they were illegal aliens.''

Testifying against Hazleton, Jose Luis Lechuga, a legal Mexican immigrant who
said he had lived in the city for 16 years, recounted how his grocery
specializing in tortillas and chorizo and his restaurant with home-cooked tacos
had failed in recent months. ''Many people did not want to come to Hazleton
anymore because they did not feel safe,'' Mr. Lechuga testified. Hazleton
residents ''look at us as enemies now.''

Under cross-examination by a Hazleton lawyer, Harry G. Mahoney, Mr. Lechuga
confirmed that his financial troubles had started well before the ordinances
were passed, and he acknowledged that many of his customers might have been
illegal immigrants.

Still, the court testimony left an impression of a harsh social change in
Hazleton for some Hispanic residents.

''I saw a lot of fear'' after the laws were adopted, said one resident, Agapito
Lopez, a retired ophthalmologist. ''It was hurting my people. Latinos are a
family.''

Judge Munley ruled Friday that the illegal immigrants who were plaintiffs in the
case did not have to appear in court but could present their depositions as
evidence, meaning they would not face cross-examination.

Last year, Hazleton also adopted an ordinance making English the city's official
language. That law is the subject of a temporary restraining order issued by
Judge Munley, but it is not at issue in this trial.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Gonzalez and his sister Estrella in Scranton, Pa.,
yesterday as a trial began over the rights of immigrants living in nearby
Hazleton. (Photo by Tom Madden for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 2, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers' Rights Violated, A.C.L.U. Charges

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 737 words


On behalf of six illegal immigrant workers, including the widow of a Mexican
killed on a Brooklyn demolition site, the American Civil Liberties Union and
other law and labor groups charged yesterday that the United States has failed
to protect basic workplace rights guaranteed under international law.

The charges came in a petition to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights,
an arm of the Organization of American States, which includes all the 35 nations
of the Western Hemisphere.

The petition, filed by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the other groups, is an unusual
appeal to an international body to push American courts and lawmakers away from
a 2002 Supreme Court ruling known as Hoffman v. National Labor Relations Board.
The petitioners say the ruling has had a snowball effect, limiting or denying
the basic protection of labor laws to millions of illegal immigrant workers in
violation of principles like equal protection before the law and freedom of
association under the nation's international treaty obligations.

The commission, based in Washington, has no enforcement powers, but it has
considerable moral authority, and an overall record of cooperation by member
states, including the United States. Unlike other member states, however, the
United States does not consider the commission's rulings legally binding.

''The most poorly paid and least desirable jobs in the United States are filled
by undocumented immigrants,'' said Claudia Flores, an attorney with the A.C.L.U.
Women's Rights Project. ''Yet the government increasingly limits the safeguards
available to this population, leaving them vulnerable to exploitation and
workplace discrimination. The United States government has an obligation under
universal human rights norms to protect vulnerable populations.''

Erik Watnik, a State Department spokesman, said it had not received the
petition. Veronica Gomez, a lawyer for the commission, said the petition would
be transmitted to the State Department with a request for a response if an
analysis shows that it is admissible.

The petitioners are asking that the commission find the United States, and
several state governments including New York, New Jersey, Kansas, Pennsylvania
and Michigan, in violation of the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties
of Man, adopted by the United States in 1948.

The petitioners include a union in Utah that says it was helping mine workers to
fight unsafe conditions and low pay, only to see 29 fired for lack of proper
immigration papers when they tried to organize. Among other petitioners is a
Chinese woman who said she was forced to leave her job in New Jersey because of
sexual harassment, and a Kansas painter who sought workman's compensation after
a fall from scaffolding, but was prosecuted for using a false document to get
the job and deported to Mexico.

''You're stuck with a convoluted and seemingly absurd situation,'' said Steven
Camarota, director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates restrictions on immigration. ''You find yourself debating how much
protection to give to somebody who isn't even supposed to be here. The solution
to the problem is to enforce the law and to eliminate illegal immigration.''

But lawyers for the petitioners say that once workers are on the job, human
rights principles require that their lives be protected equally, regardless of
what the commission calls ''migratory status.''

In the case of the widow of the worker killed at the Brooklyn site, identified
in the petition only as Yolanda L.R., she filed a wrongful death claim that is
still pending. Her husband's employer was separately convicted of criminal
negligence, but her lawyers have warned her that under recent court decisions,
any compensation awarded for her husband's death will be diminished because her
husband was an illegal immigrant.

The issue is rooted in the Supreme Court's 2002 holding that an unauthorized
worker fired in retaliation for his part in a union organizing campaign was not
entitled to the remedy of back pay. Relying on that ruling, the petition said,
many states have limited or eliminated protections like compensation for
workplace injuries, freedom from workplace discrimination, and the right to hold
an employer responsible for an injury at work.

This provides a further incentive for unscrupulous employers to hire illegal
immigrant workers, the petition said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 30, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Off The Citizenship Path

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 110 words


White House officials have issued a discussion document on immigration that
calls for legislation that would grant legal status to illegal immigrants and
guest workers, but would not put them on a path to citizenship. It would allow
illegal immigrants to remain in the country indefinitely, under certain
conditions, and would require guest workers to leave the country after six
years. The document, drafted after several meetings with Republican senators,
was designed to garner broad Republican support for key immigration principals.
Democratic and Republican senators are negotiating in hope of coming to a
consensus on an immigration bill.   RACHEL L. SWARNS

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 17, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Some States, Democrats Are Sending a More Conservative Immigration Message

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1339 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., Oct. 11


In Washington, the Democratic leadership in Congress has maintained a united
front on immigration, demanding legislation that would legalize illegal
immigrants and create a guest worker program to ensure a reliable legal flow of
foreign workers.

But here in Tennessee, and in at least a dozen other fiercely contested
Congressional races, Democratic candidates are publicly breaking with that
message.

In North Carolina, Heath Shuler, a former Washington Redskins quarterback who is
running for Congress, ran a television advertisement declaring he would never
''give amnesty'' to illegal immigrants. In Georgia, Representative John Barrow
has played up his vote to build a fence on the southwest border. In Ohio, John
Cranley, the challenger to the Republican incumbent, Representative Steve
Chabot, has accused Mr. Chabot of voting to legalize hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants.

In this state, Representative Harold E. Ford Jr., the Democrat running for
Senate, reminds voters repeatedly that federal agents raided his Republican
opponent's business and found four illegal immigrants working there. Mr. Ford
also proudly describes his vote for the border security legislation passed by
the House last year, a measure condemned as anti-immigrant by many Democrats in
Congress.

''I'm the only person on this stage who has ever voted for an
anti-illegal-immigration bill, matter of fact the strongest in the country,''
Mr. Ford said this week in a debate with his Republican opponent, Bob Corker.
The congressman emphasized that his position put him at odds with his party and
with President Bush, who pushed for legislation to grant legal status to illegal
immigrants.

The vast majority of Democrats in Congress support their leadership's call for
legislation that would grant legal status to illegal immigrants and toughen
border security. And politicians of all stripes go against their party leaders,
on occasion, to address regional concerns. But the appearance of some candidates
vying to be tougher than Republicans on border security, particularly in tight
races in conservative states, shows how divisive the immigration issue remains.

The tough border security message is carried mostly by Democrats in the South
and the Midwest, where a surge of Hispanic immigration is transforming small
towns and cities. In such communities, some candidates are deriding legalization
as amnesty, proclaiming border security as their priority or criticizing
Republican challengers as failing to stem the tide of illegal immigration.

This stance has fueled an outcry from immigrant advocacy groups, including the
National Council of La Raza and the Tennessee Immigrant and Refugee Rights
Coalition, which have accused some Democrats of abandoning their principles.
They warn that Democrats and Republicans who demonize immigrants risk alienating
Hispanic voters, who are expected to constitute a powerful bloc in coming years.

Democratic leaders have been treading carefully. This summer, the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee withdrew an advertisement from its Web site
displaying images of people scaling a border fence along with images of Osama
bin Laden and President Kim Jong Il of North Korea. Several Hispanic groups had
complained that it unfairly likened immigrants to terrorists.

''There is a disconnect between what the national party sees as rational
policies and what Congressman Ford and other Democrats have determined they need
to do to win,'' said David Lubell, the director of the Tennessee immigrant
rights coalition. ''These Democrats are trying to out-right the right.''

Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, who supports the legalization
of illegal immigrants, also lamented the emergence of the trend in his state.
''It's who can claim 'I'm not for amnesty' and who can say that the loudest,''
Mr. Flake said.

Republican campaign officials dismiss the phenomenon as insignificant, arguing
that most Democrats still remain vulnerable on immigration, particularly among
conservative voters.

''Democrats may try to talk a good game,'' said Carl Forti, a spokesman for the
National Republican Congressional Committee, ''but most of the incumbents have
voting records opposite to what they're now trying to claim.''

Some Democrats praise the shift in tone, saying internal polling shows that the
traditional message of support for legalization for illegal immigrants lacks the
backing of many middle-class voters, regardless of party affiliation.

''They think that Democrats are on the side of illegal immigrants even at the
expense of citizens,'' said Jim Kessler, vice president for policy at the Third
Way, a centrist Democratic research group that has conducted polling on
immigration. Mr. Kessler, who in recent months has briefed senior Democratic
campaign officials and the staffs of dozens of Democratic candidates, has been
advising them to take the offense on border security by charging that
immigration enforcement has faltered under Republican leadership.

Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, who is leading the Democrats' campaign
to win Congress, and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, Mr. Emanuel's
Senate counterpart, publicly praised Mr. Kessler's research this year.

All three men emphasized that they supported the legalization of illegal
immigrants but said that it was important to note the Republicans' weaknesses on
enforcement.

Mr. Kessler acknowledged that his message was hard for some Democrats ''to
swallow.'' But adopting a tougher message, he said, would make Democratic
candidates less vulnerable in the November elections.

''Immigration is an incredible source of strength for Americans,'' he said.
''But it's also a source of angst for Americans. I don't think we should just
shrug that off.''

The mounting Democratic ambivalence over immigration was apparent in September
in the last frenetic weeks of lawmaking before the Congressional recess.

With the November elections looming, 62 House Democrats voted to support a
strict border security measure championed by the Republican leadership, up from
the 36 who supported tough legislation last December. In the Senate, 26
Democrats voted in favor of building 700 miles of fencing along the Mexican
border, outnumbering the 17 Democrats who opposed it.

Since then, on the campaign trail, Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, who
is up for re-election and often breaks with his party, has accused his
Republican challenger of supporting the legalization approach favored by two
Democratic senators, Edward M. Kennedy and John Kerry, both of Massachusetts.

''I support border security first; my opponent supports amnesty,'' Mr. Nelson
said in a television advertisement this month.

Tessa Hafen, who hopes to unseat Representative Jon Porter, Republican of
Nevada, said this month that Mr. Porter favored Mr. Bush's approach to
immigration, ''a plan Porter called amnesty.'' But she acknowledged in an
interview that she personally favored legalization, too, along with tougher
border security.

In Tennessee, Mr. Corker and his allies in the Republican Party have been trying
to raise doubts about Mr. Ford's commitment to border security. In television
advertisements, they say he voted against sending the military to the border and
against hiring more border agents. They often note that he has voted with his
party more than 80 percent of the time.

And in this week's debate, Mr. Corker, who did not return a call for comment,
said that the illegal immigrants found at his work site had been hired bya
subcontractor.

Mr. Ford, who is known as something of an ambitious maverick in his party,
countered that he had made those votes before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11,
2001, and that he had been tough on illegal immigration since then.

''They think they can come in here and just malign me as this Democrat that is
out of touch, whose views don't comport with mainstream conservative values,''
Mr. Ford said. ''But we've been able to withstand that.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Corker, left, the Republican running for Senate in
Tennessee, is challenging Representative Harold E. Ford Jr., right, who has
emphasized his vote for strict border security. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Do Immigrants Make Us Safer?

BYLINE: By Eyal Press.

Eyal Press, a contributing writer for The Nation, is the author of ''Absolute
Convictions: My Father, a City and the Conflict That Divided America.''

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-03-06: IDEA LAB;
Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3046 words


Although the midterm election failed to render a clear verdict on illegal
immigration, the new Democratic Congress may enact sweeping legislation
tightening border controls and allowing more guest workers next year. If that
happens, the rancorous debate about how undocumented workers affect jobs and
wages in the United States will be rejoined. So, too, will an equally rancorous,
if less prominent, debate: Do immigrants make the U.S. more crime-ridden and
dangerous?

In an age of Latino gangs and Chinese criminal networks, the notion that
communities with growing immigrant populations tend to be unsafe is fairly well
established, at least in the popular imagination. In a national survey conducted
in 2000, 73 percent of Americans said they believe that immigrants are either
''somewhat'' or ''very'' likely to increase crime, higher than the 60 percent
who fear they are ''likely to cause Americans to lose jobs.'' Cities like Avon
Park, Fla., have considered ordinances recently to dissuade businesses from
hiring illegal immigrants, whose presence ''destroys our neighborhoods.'' Even
President Bush, whose perceived generosity to undocumented workers has earned
him vilification on the right, commented in a speech this May that illegal
immigration ''strains state and local budgets and brings crime to our
communities.''

So goes the conventional wisdom. But is it true? In fact, according to evidence
cropping up in various places, the opposite may be the case. Ramiro Martinez
Jr., a professor of criminal justice at Florida International University, has
sifted through homicide records in border cities like San Diego and El Paso,
both heavily populated by Mexican immigrants, both places where violent crime
has fallen significantly in recent years. ''Almost without exception,'' he told
me, ''I've discovered that the homicide rate for Hispanics was lower than for
other groups, even though their poverty rate was very high, if not the highest,
in these metropolitan areas.'' He found the same thing in the Haitian
neighborhoods of Miami. In his book ''New York Murder Mystery,'' the
criminologist Andrew Karmen examined the trend in New York City and likewise
found that the ''disproportionately youthful, male and poor immigrants'' who
arrived during the 1980s and 1990s ''were surprisingly law-abiding'' and that
their settlement into once-decaying neighborhoods helped ''put a brake on
spiraling crime rates.''

The most prominent advocate of the ''more immigrants, less crime'' theory is
Robert J. Sampson, chairman of the sociology department at Harvard. A year ago,
Sampson was an author of an article in The American Journal of Public Health
that reported the findings of a detailed study of crime in Chicago. Based on
information gathered on the perpetrators of more than 3,000 violent acts
committed between 1995 and 2002, supplemented by police records and community
surveys, it found that the rate of violence among Mexican-Americans was
significantly lower than among both non-Hispanic whites and blacks.

In June, Sampson and I drove out to a neighborhood in Little Village, Chicago's
largest Hispanic community. The area we visited is decidedly poor: in terms of
per capita income, 84 percent of Chicago neighborhoods are better off and 99
percent have a greater proportion of residents with a high-school education. As
we made our way down a side street, Sampson noted that many of the residents
make their living as domestic workers and in other low-wage occupations, often
paid off the books because they are undocumented. In places of such concentrated
disadvantage, a certain level of violence and social disorder is assumed to be
inevitable. As we strolled around, Sampson paused on occasion to make a mental
note of potential trouble signs: an alley strewn with garbage nobody had
bothered to pick up; a sign in Spanish in several windows, complaining about the
lack of a park in the vicinity where children can play. Yet for all of this, the
neighborhood was strikingly quiet. And, according to the data Sampson has
collected, it is surprisingly safe. The burglary rate in the neighborhood is in
the bottom fifth of the city. The overall crime rate is nearly in the bottom
third.

The safety of neighborhoods like these has received little attention in the
debate about immigration -- or, for that matter, the debate about crime. Ever
since cities like New York began cracking down on panhandling and loitering in
the mid-1990s, a move that coincided with a precipitous drop in violence, policy
makers have embraced the so-called broken-windows theory, which emphasizes the
deterrent effects of punishing such minor offenses. Lately, though, scholars
have begun to question whether ''broken windows'' deserves all the credit for
diminishing crime after all. Some researchers have linked progress to the
cessation of the crack epidemic. Others point to an improved economy,
community-policing initiatives or even the legalization of abortion, which
reduced the number of poor, unwanted children growing up in high-risk
neighborhoods.

Sampson's theory may be the most provocative yet. Could America's cities be
safer today not because fewer unwanted children live in them but because a lot
more immigrants do? Could illegal immigration be making the nation a more
law-abiding place?

There are, to be sure, scholars who take issue with this rosy picture. Wesley
Skogan, a political scientist at Northwestern University, has spent the past 13
years tracking violence and social disorder in the white, black and Latino
communities in Chicago. In a new book, ''Police and Community in Chicago: A Tale
of Three Cities,'' just out from Oxford University Press, Skogan concludes that
the big success story took place not in immigrant areas but in African-American
ones, where participation in community-policing programs was highest and
violence fell the most. ''About two-thirds of the crime decline in Chicago since
1991 took place in black neighborhoods,'' Skogan says. In Hispanic communities,
by contrast, Skogan found that the fear of crime, as measured in surveys of
residents, and real social disorder -- gang activity, loitering -- actually
became worse as the foreign-born population increased. Skogan acknowledges that
Hispanic immigrants don't show up much in arrest records, but he says he
believes part of the explanation for this rests in the fact that those who are
undocumented go to enormous lengths to ''stay off the radar.'' Many also come
from a country, Mexico, where distrust of law enforcement is endemic, which is
why he suspects they underreport crime and participate less in
community-policing programs, as his study found.

Sampson doesn't deny that crime may be underreported in immigrant neighborhoods.
Nonetheless, he is quick to note that as the ranks of foreigners in the United
States boomed during the 1990s -- increasing by more than 50 percent to 31
million -- America's cities became markedly less dangerous. That these two
trends might be related has been overlooked, he says, in part because
immigrants, like African-Americans, often trigger negative associations
regardless of how they actually behave. Not long ago, Sampson and Stephen W.
Raudenbush, a sociologist who teaches at the University of Chicago, conducted an
experiment to test this idea. The experiment drew on interviews with more than
3,500 Chicago residents, each of whom was asked how serious problems like
loitering and public drinking were where they lived. The responses were compared
with the actual level of chaos in the neighborhood, culled from police data and
by having researchers drive along hundreds of blocks to document every sign of
decay and disorder they could spot.

The social and ethnic composition of a neighborhood turned out to have a
profound bearing on how residents of Chicago perceived it, irrespective of the
actual conditions on the streets. ''In particular,'' Sampson and Raudenbush
found, ''the proportion of blacks and the proportion of Latinos in a
neighborhood were related positively and significantly to perceived disorder.''
Once you adjusted for the ethnic, racial and class composition of a community,
''much of the variation in levels of disorder that appeared to be explained by
what residents saw was spurious.''

In other words, the fact that people think neighborhoods with large
concentrations of brown-skinned immigrants are unsafe makes sense in light of
popular stereotypes and subliminal associations. But that doesn't mean there is
any rational basis for their fears. Such a message hasn't sat well with
everyone. As the debate about immigration has grown more heated and polarized,
Sampson has found himself barraged with hate mail. ''Vicious stuff,'' he told
me, ''you know, thinly veiled threats, people saying, 'You should just come and
look at the Mexican gangs here.' '' But Sampson has also won some far-flung
admirers. In Mexico, one of the nation's leading dailies, La Reforma, published
a story hailing his findings, under the triumphal heading, ''Son barrios de
paisanos menos violentos que los blancos '' (''Neighborhoods of our countrymen
are less violent than white ones'').

If immigrants really are making America safer, why is this so? ''That,'' Sampson
says, ''is the $64,000 question.'' In discussing the persistence of poverty and
the causes of crime, sociologists on the left often emphasize the importance of
''structural'' factors like unemployment and racism, while scholars on the right
tend to focus on individual behavior like having an illegitimate child and using
drugs. Sampson prefers to focus on the nature of the social interactions taking
place in particular neighborhoods. At one point in Little Village, we strolled
past a house where a couple of young girls were playing outside. It didn't seem
that anybody was supervising them. Next door, however, an elderly woman was
standing just inside the window. The window was open, and as Sampson and I
passed by, her eyes did not leave us. ''Did you notice that?'' asked Sampson as
we proceeded down the block. She was making sure the two strangers who had
appeared weren't dangerous. It was an example of the kind of informal social
control that Sampson says can prevent even the poorest neighborhoods from
spiraling into chaos and that he suspects may distinguish many tightknit
immigrant communities.

But Sampson also notes the importance of another factor, one often stressed by
conservatives: Mexicans in Chicago, his study found, are more likely to be
married than either blacks or whites. ''The family dynamic is very noticeable
here,'' Sampson remarked as we passed a girl with long braided hair clutching
her mother's hand. Her father followed a few steps behind. Sampson does not
believe family structure explains everything: the data showed that in immigrant
neighborhoods, even individuals who are not in married households are 15 percent
less likely to engage in crime. Yet neither did he discount its significance.

To the extent a strong family structure does play a role, it has left Sampson
understandably mystified why the most strident opponents of immigration so often
come from the right. Shouldn't conservatives concerned about the breakdown of
traditional values be celebrating these family-oriented newcomers? This is
indeed what David Brooks argued not long ago in a column in The New York Times,
gently chiding his fellow conservatives for reflexively assuming foreigners have
had a corrosive impact on the nation's moral fiber. ''As immigration has surged,
violent crime has fallen 57 percent,'' Brooks noted in the column, which was
titled ''Immigrants to Be Proud Of.''

Sampson wrote Brooks a note complimenting him on the piece. But he is under no
illusions that his views on crime and immigration will endear him to Republicans
clamoring for America's borders to be sealed. On the other hand, it might not
make his colleagues on the left any happier. The flip side of the impulse to
demonize immigrants is, after all, the tendency to romanticize them as
hard-working Horatio Alger types who valiantly lift themselves out of poverty --
with the implication that if they can avoid falling victim to drugs, gangs and
other inner-city scourges, those who succumb to these forces have only
themselves to blame. In calling attention to the virtues of immigrant
communities, there is a risk that Sampson's work will be taken by some as a
commentary on the high crime rate in some poor African-American communities.

Of course, comparing the experiences of Mexican immigrants and African-Americans
may seem grossly unfair, not least because studies have shown that many
employers are willing to hire foreigners (on the assumption they work hard) but
not blacks (on the assumption they don't). Yet the fact that it is unfair hardly
means such comparisons won't be made -- even though immigrants commit less crime
not only than African-Americans in inner-city neighborhoods but less than
American-born white people as well.

Before anyone rushes to conclude that crime would vanish from America's cities
if only more foreigners moved here, it is worth considering something else
Sampson's study uncovered. It is a finding as troubling as his basic thesis
about immigrants is hopeful. Second-generation immigrants in Chicago were
significantly more likely to commit crimes than their parents, it turns out, and
those of the third generation more likely still.

Opponents of immigration frequently charge that Mexican immigrants threaten
America's national identity because of their failure to assimilate. A more
reasonable concern might be the opposite of this: not that foreigners in
low-income neighborhoods refuse to adopt the norms of the native culture but
that their children and grandchildren do.

The sociologists Alejandro Portes and Ruben G. Rumbaut conducted a multiyear
longitudinal study of immigrant children in Miami and San Diego. The offspring
of foreigners who grow up in impoverished ghettos, they have argued,
particularly Mexican-Americans exposed to racial as well as economic
discrimination, often lose the drive and optimism their parents had and come to
share the widespread attitude among their inner-city peers that survival depends
on brandishing an oppositional stance toward school authorities and, more
broadly, a culture that looks down on them. ''The learning of new cultural
patterns and entry into American social circles does not lead in these cases to
upward mobility but to exactly the opposite,'' Portes and Rumbaut contend, a
process of ''downward assimilation'' that has created a new ''rainbow
underclass.'' Astoundingly, in a recent paper, Rumbaut and several doctoral
students found that the incarceration rate among second-generation Mexicans was
eight times higher than for the first generation; among Vietnamese, it was more
than 10 times higher. Where the first-generation immigrants in their data were
less likely to wind up in prison than native-born whites, the second (with the
exception of Filipinos and Chinese) were more likely.

Such findings suggest the class and race divisions that cleave America's social
landscape may prove decisive after all. In Sweden, a country with markedly less
inequality and more generous social welfare policies -- and far less violent
crime -- studies have shown the rate of offending tends to be lower for the
second generation of immigrants than for the first. Of course, America has
historically done an admirable job of assimilating newcomers, and the theory of
''downward assimilation'' has not gone unchallenged. Recently, a team of
researchers completed a study in New York of more than 2,200 second-generation
immigrants and 1,200 native-born Americans that allowed them to compare the rate
of offending among various groups, West Indians versus African-Americans, for
instance, or Russians versus American-born whites. According to John Mollenkopf,
a political scientist at the CUNY Graduate Center, the arrest rates among the
children of immigrants were the same or lower in every case. ''The
second-generation immigrants are doing better, on the whole, than the
native-born,'' he said.

Clearly, the debate over assimilation will continue, as Sampson acknowledges.
When I asked him why he thought the positive trends he and his colleagues had
discovered in Chicago seemed to become diluted by the second and third
generations, he paused.

''That's another $64,000 question,'' he said, chuckling softly. Part of the
explanation, he went on to speculate, may rest in the exposure subsequent
generations have to the things that often lure young people in America's cities
to engage in illicit activities: drugs, cash, cars, contraband. Part of it, as
well, might be the adoption of streetwise attitudes that lead people to react
quickly to insults in the United States. One thing it is difficult for Americans
to realize, he said, is how unusually violent their country is, particularly in
light of its inordinate wealth. Recently, scholars have become increasingly
interested in the historical origins of American violence. Richard Nisbett of
the University of Michigan and others have traced our ''culture of violence''
back to the valorization of retribution and dueling among Scotch-Irish
immigrants in the American South, suggesting that antique folkways have become
encoded into the nation's DNA.

It is a dark view, perhaps, but Sampson is hopeful that the good news about
crime in recent years can continue, albeit under certain conditions, among them
less alarmism about the supposedly dangerous foreigners in our midst. Sampson
shook his head when describing some of the correspondence he has received from
people absolutely certain that immigrants are sowing mayhem in our streets. In
the last few years, he noted, such people have had somewhat less cause for
worry, since the numbers show the flow of newcomers has subsided a bit.
Meanwhile, the crime rate in some cities has begun to creep back up. Sampson,
for one, does not think this is a mere coincidence. Those clamoring for America
to close its borders in order to prevent violence-prone strangers from flooding
our shores may well get their way, he acknowledged, but they ought to be careful
what they wish for.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Untitled, 2003,'' From ''Barrio: Pictures From Chicago's Pilsen
And Little Village'' (Photograph by Paul D'Amato)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants at Center Of New ID Theft Crackdown

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 877 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff on Wednesday announced a broad new
plan to crack down on illegal immigrants who steal the identities of American
citizens to get jobs. The strategy, he warned, would likely have economic
consequences for the industries that rely heavily on illegal workers.

The announcement came one day after homeland security agents swept into Swift &
Company meatpacking plants in six states and arrested nearly 1,300 workers,
almost 10 percent of the company's work force, in what Mr. Chertoff hailed as
the largest workplace crackdown on illegal immigration.

Of the 1,282 workers detained, 65 were charged with identity theft or other
crimes, officials said. The rest face administrative charges for being in the
United States illegally and will likely be deported. The company, which
cooperated with the government, was not charged with any criminal or civil
violations.

Mr. Chertoff said illegal immigrants had assumed the stolen identities of
hundreds of American citizens to get jobs at Swift & Company. And he warned that
he intended to aggressively pursue document-theft rings and the illegal
immigrant workers who use them, even though he acknowledged that ''when we
remove the illegal workers, there's going to be some kind of a slowdown.''

''Obviously, when -- even unwittingly -- a business is significantly built on
illegal labor, once we enforce the law, that's going to have a ripple effect,''
Mr. Chertoff said at a news conference in response to questions about the impact
of the new strategy on businesses and the economy.

''It's going to be a deterrent to illegal workers,'' he said. ''It's going to
cause them to say that, you know, this happened in Swift, it could easily happen
somewhere else. In fact, I'm pretty much going to guarantee we're going to keep
bringing these cases.''

The news sent shudders through the nation's businesses because Swift & Company,
the world's second largest processor of fresh beef and pork, had tried to weed
out illegal workers and had relied on a federal program designed to help
employers detect fake identity documents. Mr. Chertoff acknowledged that the
program, known as Basic Pilot, is unable to detect authentic identity documents
that have been stolen.

In a statement, Swift & Company executives said the raids had forced the company
to temporarily suspend operations on Tuesday in its plants in Texas, Colorado,
Nebraska, Minnesota, Iowa and Utah. They said work resumed on Wednesday, but
warned that production was expected to fall ''below normal levels in the short
term.'' Union officials said that employee attendance dipped slightly on
Wednesday because some immigrants were afraid to return to work.

Homeland security officials emphasized that only the company's workers -- not
the company -- had been charged with wrongdoing, though the investigation is
continuing. They said Swift's situation demonstrated the need for a temporary
worker program, such as the one advocated by President Bush, to ensure that
companies have access to foreign workers.

Mr. Chertoff also urged Congress to pass legislation that would allow Social
Security officials to pass along information about valid Social Security numbers
being used in multiple workplaces, which then would allow the Basic Pilot
program to capture such data and give it to employers.

Homeland security officials also noted that Swift fired scores of workers it
determined were illegal, without informing the government, which had notified
the company of its investigation. Swift also unsuccessfully sought a court order
to prevent federal officials from conducting raids. Both instances, officials
suggested, raised questions about the company's willingness to cooperate with
the government.

But that did little to reassure jittery executives.

''This is any business's nightmare, whether you are in the meat industry or
outside the meat industry,'' said Janet Riley, spokeswoman for the American Meat
Institute.

Randy Johnson, a vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, warned
that the raids would lead companies to question the value of participating in
the Basic Pilot program. And Laura Reiff of the Essential Worker Immigration
Coalition, said she was deluged on Wednesday with calls from business owners
upset by the Department of Homeland Security's actions.

''They're frightened; they're outraged,'' said Ms. Reiff, whose coalition
represents hotels, restaurants, construction companies and other service
industries. ''Companies have tried to work with them in good faith. For them to
target a company that is using a program that they're trying to sell is
disingenuous.''

This week's sweep reflects the Bush administration's continuing efforts to
demonstrate that it is determined to enforce the nation's long-neglected
immigration laws, even as it works to revive legislation that would create a
temporary worker program that would legalize most of the 12 million illegal
immigrants believed to be in the United States.

In 2002, immigration officials arrested or charged 25 people for criminal
violation of immigration law. During fiscal year 2006, which ended on Sept. 30,
that number surged to 716. Hundreds more were arrested and deported for living
here illegally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 15, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

$5 Million Fine for Hiring Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Dec. 14


A Southern California fence-building company and two executives pleaded guilty
in federal court Thursday to knowingly hiring illegal immigrants and agreed to
pay a combined fine of $5 million, the government's latest coup in a crackdown
on businesses.

If the judge follows the government's recommendation to sentence the company
officials to at least six months in jail, the case could become a rare example
of executives being sent to prison for hiring illegal immigrants.

The business, Golden State Fence Company of Riverside, pleaded guilty to
knowingly hiring illegal immigrants, a misdemeanor, and agreed to pay $4.7
million to the federal government. It admitted hiring illegal workers from
January 1999 to November 2005.

Mel Kay, 64, the company's founder, chairman and president, and Michael
McLaughlin, 42, manager of the company's Oceanside office, pleaded guilty to the
same charge but as a felony. Mr. Kay agreed to pay a $200,000 fine and Mr.
McLaughlin a $100,000 fine.

The men, who admitted hiring at least 10 illegal immigrants in 2004 and 2005,
were released on their own recognizance. Sentencing is set for March 28.

Golden State Fence, which currently employs 750 people, saw sales soar to $150
million in 2004 from $60 million in 1998, according to a biography of Mr. Kay
provided by the company. Among its projects was construction of part of a
14-mile border fence in San Diego in the late 1990s.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 20, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Georgia: Illegal Workers Found At Military Sites

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 129 words


Twenty-four illegal immigrants were arrested on Wednesday after trying to enter
Fort Benning to do construction work, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials said. All but three are facing federal charges of identity theft, use
of fraudulent documents or re-entering the United States after deportation. In
Nevada, the authorities said, two illegal immigrants employed as masons were
arrested on Thursday at Creech Air Force Base in Indian Springs. In Virginia,
immigration agents on Thursday arrested Richard Eversole, 58, an American
citizen, and Juan Martinez, 24, a Mexican, on federal harboring charges,
accusing them of hiring illegal immigrants to work on a construction project at
the Quantico Marine Corps Base, and leasing apartments for the men.   JULIA
PRESTON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cleaning Executives Indicted in $18 Million Fraud

BYLINE: By LIBBY SANDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 22


Three executives of a national cleaning and maintenance company were indicted on
Thursday on charges of defrauding the federal government of more than $18
million in employment taxes owed on behalf of hundreds of illegal immigrant
workers.

The company, Rosenbaum-Cunningham International, performed janitorial services
for theme-restaurant chains like the House of Blues, Hard Rock Cafe and Dave &
Busters, as well as for the Grand Traverse Resort and Spa in Acme, Mich.

Nearly 200 immigrant workers at some of the restaurants were arrested early
Thursday in 17 states and the District of Columbia as part of the investigation
of the company, which is being conducted by United States Immigration and
Customs Enforcement and the Internal Revenue Service.

The indictment says the executives hired illegal immigrants, primarily from
Mexico, Honduras and Guatemala, and then constructed an elaborate scheme of
shell companies, bank accounts and cash-only payroll procedures to avoid paying
millions of dollars in federal taxes on the workers' wages from 1999 until
today.

The executives are the company president, Richard M. Rosenbaum; its vice
president, Edward Scott Cunningham; and its controller, Christina A. Flocken.
The 23-count indictment was unsealed on Thursday in Federal District Court in
Grand Rapids, Mich.

Mr. Rosenbaum, 60, of Longwood, Fla., was arrested on Thursday in Florida and
was held in federal custody there. Mr. Cunningham, 43, of West Palm Beach, Fla.,
and Ms. Flocken, 59, also of Longwood, were issued subpoenas and are expected to
appear voluntarily in Federal District Court in Western Michigan. No court dates
have been set.

The company is incorporated in Nevada but operates primarily out of West Palm
Beach.

From 2001 to 2005, the government says, Rosenbaum-Cunningham International
received gross payments from its various clients of $54,327,845.

By failing to pay taxes on their employees' income, Social Security and
Medicare, the three executives cheated the government of $18,640,345 and used
about a third of the excess money to finance the ''extravagant lifestyle costs''
of lavish houses, luxury boats, racehorses and college tuition, the indictment
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Mexico Also, the Message to Bush Is Immigration

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 918 words

DATELINE: MERIDA, Mexico, March 13


As President Bush tried to mend frayed relations with Mexico, the Mexican
president gave him a cool reception on Tuesday, calling on Mr. Bush to live up
to his longtime promise to make Mexico a priority and criticizing American plans
to build a 700-mile fence along the border.

President Felipe Calderon warned that the only way to stem illegal migration and
ensure regional security was to raise the standard of living here. ''I am sure
there is nothing better for the security and prosperity of our region than the
prosperity of Mexico,'' he said.

Mr. Bush took the slight chastising in stride and promised, as he has in the
past, to push for an immigration bill that would allow more guest workers and
provide a path to citizenship for many Mexicans living in the United States
illegally.

''Mr. President, my pledge to you and your government -- but, more importantly,
the people of Mexico -- is I will work as hard as I possibly can to pass
comprehensive immigration reform,'' Mr. Bush said, in a sunny courtyard at a
resort near here.

The blunt words from Mr. Calderon at the opening of the talks were in keeping
with the messages Mr. Bush has been receiving from Latin American leaders
throughout his five-country tour. On Monday, President Oscar Berger of Guatemala
complained about the forced deportations of his countrymen who enter the United
States illegally.

At nearly every turn, the American president has been faced with anger over what
is perceived as the United States' neglect of the region and frustration with
its tougher border-security policies in the wake of the 2001 terrorist attacks.

Late Tuesday afternoon, about 2,000 protesters tried to storm the United States
Embassy in Mexico City, shouting, ''Get out, Bush the assassin!'' Riot police
officers tried to control the crowd, but the protesters knocked down a steel
barrier, threw gasoline bombs and set off big bottle rockets. At least three
people were hurt, as explosions boomed down Paseo de la Reforma. Some of the
protesters burned American flags, while others burned an effigy of Mr. Bush.

The riot police dispersed the crowd about 6:30, arresting several people and
sending the rest running down the city's main avenue.

In Merida at 8 p.m., a group of about 30 protesters attacked city hall, breaking
several windows and spray-painting graffiti on the walls before they were chased
away by dozens of police officers in riot gear. At least 10 people were
arrested.

Hanging over the talks was the specter of Hugo Chavez, the Venezuelan populist
leader who has been using his county's oil wealth to undermine American
influence in the region.

Mr. Calderon is one of the few conservative free trade advocates to win election
in Latin America recently, along with Oscar Arias of Costa Rica. United States
officials see the Mexican president as a crucial ally in the ideological battle
the United States is waging with leftists like Mr. Chavez, Evo Morales of
Bolivia, Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua and Fidel Castro of Cuba.

''For President Bush, he does see Mexico as an essential element in American
foreign policy,'' said one senior White House official. ''And he sees it as a
partnership.''

The talks took place at the Hacienda Temozon, a restored sisal farm that is now
a luxury hotel. The leaders met for three hours, flanked by their ambassadors
and secretaries of state, then broke bread together. Later they toured the Mayan
ruins at Uxmal in the tropical heat.

As he toasted Mr. Calderon before the luncheon, Mr. Bush said the best way to
ensure that Mexican migrants in the United States were treated well was to pass
immigration-reform legislation. He remarked that Mr. Calderon had expressed
''deep concerns about whether or not America can pass such a law,'' but added
that he would spare no effort to convince Congress.

Mr. Bush has had a hard time lining up votes in his own Republican Party for a
guest worker program and a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. He has
said that he hopes for some movement on such a bill by August, but it will be an
uphill fight.

On the agenda on Tuesday were several interlocking issues, American officials
said. On security, the presidents talked about more sharing of information among
law enforcement agencies, as well as about the possibility of the United States
providing high-tech scanning equipment for Mexico's ports.

On immigration, the Mexican leader raised objections, as he has in the past, to
the construction of a 700-mile wall along parts of the border, saying that
building roads in Mexico would be more useful.

The two men also talked about corn and beans, officials said. The Mexican
government wants to roll back a deadline under the North American Free Trade
Agreement to lift all restrictions on the importation of United States corn and
beans next year. The measure is extremely unpopular with Mexican farmers.

The lengthy talks, however, did not bear fruit, though some progress was made,
if only in creating a bond between the leaders, the senior White House official
said. ''People tend to lose sight that even at the presidential level, there is
a dynamic of personal diplomacy,'' he said.

Dan Bartlett, a counselor to Mr. Bush, said the critical tone of Mr. Calderon's
remarks on immigration were to be expected. ''It's a very emotional debate,'' he
said. ''It's an emotional debate in our own country, and I'm sure it's a very
emotional debate in this country, because the lives -- so many lives are
affected.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and President Felipe Calderon of Mexico met for
three hours at a luxury hotel, then toured the Mayan ruins of Uxmal, above.
(Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giving Jobs To Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 206 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Rejecting the Levy Way'' (editorial, March 11):

How long is The Times going to continue attempting to scold and shame Long
Islanders for expecting our public officials -- like Steve Levy, the Suffolk
County executive -- to obey the law?

Under federal law, it is a crime to hire illegal aliens. Labor laws for which
Americans have fought and died in the past are being flouted by employers who
are making illegal profits by paying to illegals wages below what American
workers are entitled to, and not paying the millions of income and Social
Security taxes that could cover the vast expenses of free medical, educational
and welfare benefits these invaders line up for the minute they sneak through
the weak borders of our supposedly sovereign nation.

''They take jobs Americans don't want'' -- that is the ugliest lie being
circulated by those who have vested interests in illegal laborers. The truth is
they take jobs -- all of which used to be done by Americans before the invasion,
by teenagers, African-Americans, retired people, unionized workers and so on.
Only now, these jobs pay much less and ignore every hard-won labor law designed
to ensure fair treatment for American citizens.Gail ChapmanPort Washington

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Worker, Troubled Citizen and Stolen Name

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Margot Williams contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1860 words

DATELINE: MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa


The two women named Violeta Blanco have never met. But for a long time they
shared not only a name, but the same birth date and the same Social Security
number.

One is an illegal immigrant from Mexico who went to work slicing pork in a
meat-packing plant here after her husband left her with three children. The
other is a single American mother in California who has never held a job,
struggles with drug addiction and is fighting to keep the state from taking her
children.

With little in common but their shared identity, the two women are unwittingly
linked by an illicit trade that is the focus of a new federal crackdown on
illegal immigration. Detained in a recent raid on the Iowa plant, the Mexican
worker admitted that she had used the California woman's identity to get her
job. Now she is in jail on felony charges of identity theft, her trial set to
begin in Des Moines on Monday.

Immigration raids at six Swift & Company meat-packing plants in six states in
December, as well as more recent sweeps in Michigan, Florida and Arizona, have
exposed an expanding front in the underground business that caters to illegal
immigrants looking for work, officials say.

As the authorities have aggressively prosecuted employers for hiring
undocumented workers, companies are examining applicants more carefully, and
fake documents no longer pass inspection as easily as they did. Illegal
immigrants have turned increasingly to bona fide documents, stolen or bought by
traffickers from actual Americans.

With scrutiny tightening, illegal immigrants ''invest more effort and money into
getting better documents,'' said Julie L. Myers, the top official at Immigration
and Customs Enforcement. ''More and more, that includes taking on the identities
of U.S. citizens and legal immigrants.''

The case of Violeta Blanco, 31, of Bakersfield, Calif., and the woman in Iowa
who used her name, Eloisa Nunez Galeana, 32, provides a rare view of the new
identity trade through hard lives on both ends.

On one side is an immigrant who is eager to work and who says she never thought
she could be stealing from a real person; on the other is an American down on
her luck who says she does not know how her personal information came to be
exchanged on the black market.

Interviewed in jail in Des Moines, Ms. Nunez said she used Ms. Blanco's
documents -- which she had purchased from a woman she did not know -- in 2003 to
apply for her job at Swift, but that she never used them again.

She had hoped to work at the plant for many years, she said, perhaps long enough
to see her children, who range in age from 2 to 15, graduate from high school
(two were born in Iowa and are American citizens).

''I was innocent when I came from Mexico,'' said Ms. Nunez, a petite,
round-faced woman who said she was devastated to find herself in a criminal
lock-up. ''But they don't give you a job so easily anymore. To get honest work,
you need good documents.''

While Ms. Nunez worked at the Swift plant pushing sides of pork into a saw that
sliced off the fat, Ms. Blanco was in her hometown of Bakersfield leading a life
teeming with trouble. She had been in rehabilitation to shake an addiction to
the drug known as PCP. She had lost custody of her children to the state child
welfare authorities, and then had regained it.

As a result, Ms. Blanco said she was distracted and paid little attention to
letters three years ago from the Social Security Administration ordering her to
report the employment income showing up under her number. She had never been
close to taking a job.

''I don't know the person, but I'm upset,'' Ms. Blanco said of Ms. Nunez. ''I
think she could get more benefit from me, from my identity, than I could from
her. ''A Market for Authenticity

Of 1,282 illegal immigrants detained in the Swift raids, the majority were
charged with civil immigration violations and quickly deported. But federal
prosecutors brought identity-theft charges against 148 of the workers.

Court papers show that the accused did not use stolen documents to loot bank
accounts or credit cards, the primary crimes that identity-theft laws seek to
attack. Instead, they used the birth certificates and Social Security cards to
get jobs.

Still, Matthew C. Allen, the senior investigations official at Immigration and
Custom Enforcement, said that 326 Americans had reported financial complications
and tax liabilities from having their identities used at Swift. ''The victims
have suffered very real consequences,'' Mr. Allen said.

At Swift, the workers had Social Security contributions and other taxes deducted
from their paychecks, but they did not file tax returns. The Social Security
taxes accumulated in the accounts of the real owners. Because the documents were
real, Swift managers were not alerted to any irregularities by the Social
Security Administration, and no charges were brought against the company in
connection with the raids.

Traffickers have devised several ways to meet the demand for authentic
documents. Along the Mexican border, immigration officials said, muggers and
pickpockets have learned that selling stolen documents to black market vendors
can be less risky than a shopping spree with a stolen credit card.

Some Americans willingly sell their documents.

In Corpus Christi, Tex., this month, seven people pleaded guilty to selling
their birth certificates and Social Security cards for as little as $100 for
both. In another recent case, immigration officials said, an employee of a
Michigan state employment bureau sold confidential identity information from
state records to illegal immigrants seeking jobs.

A significant number of documents purchased by the immigrants here belonged to
Americans, like Ms. Blanco, who were born and lived in Bakersfield, 115 miles
north of Los Angeles. A number of those Americans lived at one time within
blocks of each other in the same Latino neighborhood in Bakersfield, though at
this point there is no explanation as to how their documents wound up on the
black market.

Traffickers apparently sold and resold the documents in several places. Many of
the identities found in Marshalltown, including Ms. Blanco's, had also been used
by immigrant workers in Green Forest, Ark., and Milwaukee, Wis. Neither Ms.
Nunez nor Ms. Blanco has ever been to either place, they said.

Ms. Nunez said she was reluctant to use identity documents that did not belong
to her, but she said she did not know that she could be committing a federal
offense, since buying documents was routine among illegal immigrants here. Real
Documents for $800

She said she first came to Iowa a decade ago, joining a sister and brother who
were both longtime legal residents married to United States citizens. Despite
her family ties, no legal work visa was available for Ms. Nunez, or for many
other Mexican and Central American immigrants who flocked to Marshalltown in
recent years, drawn by the jobs at Swift.

Ms. Nunez said that after her third child was born, her husband, who was also
Mexican, abandoned the family. She put out the word that she needed a steady
job. Friends told her that fake documents would not be good enough to apply at
Swift because the company's vetting was thorough.

Before long, a Mexican woman she did not know knocked on her door. Ms. Nunez
said she paid the woman $800 for official copies of Ms. Blanco's birth
certificate and Social Security card.

The Marshalltown Swift plant, which employs 2,220, was always hiring, and Ms.
Nunez went to work at the standard starting wage of $11.50 an hour. The work was
wearing, she said, but the pay was good.

''The line moves fast, and they want the work well done,'' said Ms. Nunez,
speaking Spanish (she does not speak English). ''After a while, I was on top of
it. I did it because I had to.''

The immigration agents who raided the plant on Dec. 12 released many of the
illegal immigrants who were single parents. Ms. Nunez was among the exceptions.

Maria Barajas, Ms. Nunez's sister who lives 20 miles from the plant, said Ms.
Nunez called her from jail, ''nervous, crying, her voice was shaking.''

Mrs. Barajas, who has two sons of her own, has been taking care of Ms. Nunez's
children. The two oldest have grown up attending Marshalltown public schools;
the youngest is 2. To support them, Mrs. Barajas said she had taken a job at
Swift.

At the mention of her children during an interview in Des Moines, Ms. Nunez,
hunched in a gray-and-white striped jail uniform, began to cry.

''I risked everything so they could grow up in the United States,'' she said.
''I'm only asking for permission to do honest work.''

Ms. Nunez and several other immigrant women detained in the Iowa raid who have
children who are American citizens say they have resolved to fight the charges
against them rather than make a deal with prosecutors that would lead to their
deportation with no chance of legal return.

''She's a mother who cut my pork chops and gave Social Security a lot of
money,'' said Michael H. Said, a lawyer representing Ms. Nunez. ''She deserves a
medal, not an indictment.''

In a similar the case, a Des Moines jury this month disagreed. Lorena Andrade
Rodriguez, 34, an illegal Mexican immigrant working at Swift, was convicted of
identity theft on March 7. Ms. Andrade is appealing the verdict.

''I'm not a bad person,'' she said. ''My record is clean. My only mistake was to
do hard work in someone else's name.''Tracing a Name to Its Source

In Bakersfield, Ms. Blanco cast a glance around her disheveled bungalow, clogged
with crates of toys and clothes, and admitted there were many ways her documents
could have slipped away. She said she did not sell them.

''I mean, I'm not organized,'' said Ms. Blanco, who lives on Social Security
payments for a psychological disability. ''I just throw stuff here, throw stuff
there. Or I'm not here, stuff has been stolen. Or I moved. Most of it was that
stuff got lost when I moved around.''

Ms. Blanco also said her purse had been stolen several times by one of her sons.
Iowa court records show that replacements for Ms. Blanco's Social Security card
were ordered 20 times over the last decade. Ms. Blanco said she could not
remember requesting all the new cards.

She said that her father was a convicted cocaine dealer and one of her sons was
arrested for assault when he was 9, and now, three years later, lives in a
juvenile home. She has been arrested for petty theft, assault and drug use, and
was once sentenced to three months in jail.

Waving a file of wrinkled papers that she keeps in a cellophane bag, she said
that Ms. Nunez's employment under her name was only a small part of problems she
attributed to identity theft.

She said she had difficulty renewing her driver's license because someone else
using her identity had taken out a license in Arkansas. A bank where she tried
to open an account told her that it already had one in her name in another state
-- not Iowa.

''I know that when I get ready, I'm going to get everything all filed up, and
I'm going to try to take care of it,'' Ms. Blanco said. ''I don't know how, but
I'm going to try.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Barajas cares for the children of her sister, Eloisa
Nunez Galeana, whose trial is to begin on Monday.
The identity of Violeta Blanco, 31, left, was used by Ms. Nunez, 32, at far
right, shown with Mrs. Barajas.
A Swift & Company meat-processing plant in Marshalltown, Iowa, was one of six
raided in December
1,282 illegal immigrants were detained. (Photographs by Sally Ryan for The New
York Times)
 (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 30, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Federal Agents Arrest 69 Immigrants in Baltimore in Raids

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 499 words


Immigration officers arrested 69 immigrants yesterday in raids at a temporary
job agency and eight sites where the agency had placed workers in the Baltimore
area, including several warehouses in the city's port.

The officers also seized $636,000 from the job agency, Jones Industrial Network,
and searched its offices. The money was suspected of being proceeds from the
employment of illegal immigrants, according to James Dinkins, special agent in
charge in Baltimore for Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Most of the arrests were made at a Baltimore packaging plant belonging to Under
Armour Inc., an athletic clothing maker. In a statement, the company said the
immigrants worked for Jones Industrial Network and were not Under Armour
employees. Immigration officials said Under Armour was not a target of the
criminal investigation.

The raids were the latest in a series of high profile operations by immigration
authorities seeking to crack down on employers of illegal immigrants. The raids
have sent a chill through many workplaces, as employers scrambled to try to
verify employment documents and millions of illegal immigrant workers hoped to
avoid detection.

On March 6, immigration agents arrested more than 360 people at Michael Bianco
Inc., a leather goods manufacturer in New Bedford, Mass., including hundreds of
immigrant workers as well as the owner of the company, Francesco Insolia, and
three managers. Three days later, state and federal charges were brought against
Ivan Hardt, the president of an Arizona construction company, Sun Drywall and
Stucco, and seven managers accused of hiring illegal immigrants.

An uproar followed the New Bedford raid, with advocates for the immigrants
saying that children had been left alone without their parents and that
immigrants who were arrested did not receive legal counsel.

In Baltimore, immigration agents seemed to go out of their way to avoid another
political furor. Immigrant advocates there said agents contacted several groups
ahead of time to say there would be a raid. Representatives from Maryland Child
Protective Services and federal health officials accompanied the agents on the
raids. The immigration agency set up a hotline for relatives of immigrants who
were arrested.

Immigration officials said 20 of the immigrants arrested yesterday would be
released on humanitarian grounds at their deportation proceedings.

Mr. Dinkins said the investigation began a year ago with a tip that illegal
immigrants were employed in Baltimore's port. The immigrants arrested were
accused of civil violations of being in the country illegally. No managers from
Jones Industrial Network were arrested, but the authorities said the criminal
investigation remained open.

Jones Industrial Network shares a Baltimore telephone number and office address
with another temporary labor agency, Jones Networking. A person who answered the
phone at the number said the two companies were separate, but declined to
comment further.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trucker Convicted in Deaths Of 19 Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL; Maureen Balleza contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Dec. 4


A truck driver was found guilty of all charges Monday and faces possible
execution in the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants who suffocated in his airless
trailer in South Texas in 2003.

In a retrial of the nation's deadliest human trafficking case, the federal jury
that convicted the driver, Tyrone M. Williams, 35, of Schenectady, N.Y., begins
hearing testimony Wednesday on whether to give Mr. Williams the first death
sentence under a 12-year-old ''alien smuggling'' statute or a lesser term of up
to life in prison.

The milk trailer, piled with bodies and 55 survivors, was found abandoned at a
truck stop near Victoria, Tex., in the early hours of May 14, 2003.

Mr. Williams, a legal immigrant from Jamaica, sat impassively through 58
recitations of ''guilty'' as the verdict form was read, then embraced his
lawyer, Craig A. Washington. Asked afterward how his client had taken the news,
Mr. Washington, a former Texas congressman, said, ''Better than me.''

Mr. Washington, whose trial defense conceded Mr. Williams's role as a smuggler
but challenged his awareness of the victims' suffering, said he planned to put
on about 20 witnesses to testify about mitigating factors in Mr. Williams's
history.

The lead prosecutor, Daniel C. Rodriguez, an assistant United States attorney
who had painted Mr. Williams as ''vile and heartless,'' declined to comment
until the punishment phase was concluded.

Mr. Williams's first trial ended in March 2005 with an incomplete verdict later
thrown out by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Jurors
had found Mr. Williams guilty on 38 of the 58 counts but deadlocked on the
others, including conspiracy resulting in death, a charge carrying possible
capital punishment. Jurors also could not agree on how to answer questions
assessing Mr. Williams's degree of culpability.

Monday's verdict, on the fifth day of deliberations, found him guilty of all 58
counts: conspiracy plus counts of harboring, transporting and transporting
resulting in death for each of the 19 victims. The jurors also found him
culpable as a principal offender, out for ''private financial gain.''

Evidence in the trials portrayed Mr. Williams as a milk trucker and sometime
drug courier who had been recruited by a smuggling ring to transport 60 illegal
immigrants on a similar run from the border about a week earlier and who then
took $7,500 to carry a group from Harlingen, Tex., past a Border Patrol
checkpoint in Sarita to a waiting van and pickup truck.

But the relief vehicles became stuck at the checkpoint, and Mr. Williams, with
the truck's refrigeration turned off, was directed by the smugglers to continue
toward Houston.

A companion in the cab, Fatima Holloway, who was traveling along for a drug
deal, testified for the government that Mr. Williams ignored the banging of his
passengers as they succumbed to airlessness, dehydration and temperatures as
high as 173 degrees, finally clawing out a taillight in a desperate bid to
breathe.

The first to die, a survivor testified in English, was a 5-year-old Mexican boy
who expired in his father's arms, crying, ''Daddy, Daddy, I'm dying.'' Sixteen
more people suffocated before Mr. Williams finally halted the truck in Victoria,
about 100 miles southwest of Houston, and two more died later in the hospital.

How many were crammed into the 18-wheeler remains unclear. The dead and
survivors total 74, but some riders may have escaped when Mr. Williams unlocked
the doors.

The jurors asked to review a particularly graphic piece of evidence: a videotape
from the Victoria truck stop in which Mr. Williams and Ms. Holloway seem
composed while buying 55 bottles of water -- just as one of the survivors
staggers in pleading for help.

Mr. Williams and Ms. Holloway fled in the cab, and Mr. Williams was arrested
later in a Houston medical center where he had sought treatment for stress.

Of 14 defendants charged in the case, Mr. Williams is the 11th to be convicted
and the only one to face the death penalty. Seven, including ringleaders of the
scheme, have been sentenced to long prison terms, and three are awaiting
sentencing. Two had their charges dismissed, and one man is a fugitive.

In the first trial, Mr. Washington raised a defense of racial discrimination,
arguing that Mr. Williams, who is black, had been singled out for execution
because of his race. Judge Vanessa D. Gilmore pressed prosecutors to explain
their reasoning and, when they refused, said she intended to inform the jury.

The Fifth Circuit, in throwing out the partial verdict, ruled racial questions
out of the case and, citing Judge Gilmore's heavy schedule, reassigned the case
to Judge Lee H. Rosenthal.

In what some legal experts saw as a defense misstep this time, Mr. Williams,
apparently against Mr. Washington's advice, declined to concede the identities
of the victims, requiring the government to call relatives whose grief-stricken
testimony clearly anguished the jury.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tyrone M. Williams was convicted on all 58 counts against him
yesterday in Houston court. (Photo by Pat Sullivan/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 10, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Gives Tour of Family Detention Center That Critics Liken to a Prison

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL; Gretel C. Kovach contributed reporting from Dallas.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: TAYLOR, Tex., Feb. 9


Responding to complaints about conditions at the nation's main family detention
center for illegal immigrants, officials threw open the gates on Friday for a
first news media tour.

They portrayed the privately run converted prison, open since May, as a model
facility ''primarily focused on the safety of the children.''

Once all the barbed wire comes down, Gary Mead, an Immigration and Customs
Enforcement official, said, ''it's going to look more like a community college
with a very high chain-link fence.''

Among other things, critics have complained about the prisonlike conditions, the
food and the limited amount of schooling and recreation provided for children.

Inside the fluorescent-lighted corridors, plastic plants had been hurriedly
installed and some areas repainted, lawyers for some detainees said, and
officials acknowledged that pizza was on the lunch menu for the first time. The
detainees could not be interviewed.

The facility, the T. Don Hutto Family Detention Center near Austin, is operated
for the government by the Corrections Corporation of America, under a
$2.8-million-a-month contract with Williamson County. It is named for a founder
of the company, which runs 64 facilities in 19 states.

It now holds about 400 illegal immigrants, including 170 children, in family
groups from nearly 30 countries, Mr. Mead said. He called it a humane
alternative to splitting up families while insuring their presence at legal
proceedings.

There is only one other family detention center in the country, the Berks Family
Shelter Care Facility in Leesport, Pa.

Critics said the picture presented on Friday conflicted with what they had
observed.

''At Hutto, we found prisonlike conditions imposed on families with no criminal
background, including asylum seekers,'' said Michelle Brane, a lawyer for the
Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children and the Lutheran Immigration
and Refugee Service who co-authored a report on family detention to be released
on Feb. 22.

Barbara Hines, clinical professor of law at the University of Texas at Austin
who runs an immigration clinic and has visited clients inside, said Friday that
''I don't think children should be incarcerated at all.''

The law required the government to hold families in the least restrictive
conditions possible, Ms. Hines said, adding, ''I was shocked, and I have been
doing this 30 years.''

The American Civil Liberties Union has also been studying conditions as it
considers filing a lawsuit contending that the government was violating a 1997
settlement on the treatment of detained juveniles.

''To call it a family residential center is to mask what's going on,'' said
Vanita Gupta, a lawyer with the A.C.L.U. ''They may be cleaning up conditions,
but at the end of the day it still begs the question of why they are using such
a Draconian system.''

Another A.C.L.U. lawyer, Lisa Graybill, legal director, said after visiting, ''I
can't describe how depressed people are in there.''

Outside the blocky buildings with thin slit windows, protesters from a local
group called Texans United for Families held up signs saying, ''Don't Jail
Children for Profit.''

''If they can put an ankle bracelet on Martha Stewart so she doesn't run off to
Jamaica,'' said a protester, Jose Ortan, a computer technician, ''they can find
ways to do it for immigrant families.''

Some of the harshest criticism came last week from members of a Palestinian
family held for three months for overstaying a visa. They were released after an
appeals board unexpectedly reopened their plea for amnesty based on new
conditions -- danger from the Hamas takeover in the Palestinian territories.

Hamzeh Ibrahim, 15, said his father was sent to a facility in West Texas while
his pregnant mother shared a cell-like room with the family's 5-year-old girl;
two other girls, 7 and 13, shared another room. He said they had to clean their
rooms and the communal shower. ''I cleaned for me and my mom because she is
pregnant and her back hurt,'' he said.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials who traveled from Washington to
lead the tour with company staff members showed off one of the 11 dormitory
areas, or pods, lined by bare pastel-tinted detainee rooms, each with a metal
bunk bed, a sink and a toilet.

The rooms are not locked at night, but a laser beam alerts guards if anyone
leaves a room after bedtime -- 9 p.m. for children and 10 for adults. The
detainees wear outfits of green and blue, which Danny Coronado, a spokesman for
the corrections company, likened to scrubs but critics described as prison garb.

Officials say stays at the center are now averaging a little more than a month.

In the dining area, which has plastic tables with stools attached, Mr. Mead
said, ''All of our meals are planned by dietitians with calories of 3,200 a day,
3,500 for children.''

Disputing claims by some lawyers that many detainees had lost weight there, Dr.
Leroy T. Soto, the chief physician on duty, said a study had actually documented
weight gains. There is a medical staff of 20.

Lawyers said detainees were rushed through meals in 15 or 20 minutes. Mr. Mead
acknowledged ''they can't linger,'' but said it was because of classes or other
activities.

Showing off a classroom with computers, Jean Bellinger, assistant administrator
for programs, said children were divided into three age groups comparable to
elementary, middle and high school for four hours a day of instruction plus an
hour of recreation and lunch. But she acknowledged that for several months a
staff shortage limited class time to an hour a day.

That was far too little, said Scott Medlock, a prison rights lawyer for the
Texas Civil Rights Project, which has been negotiating with the government for
longer school days.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary Mead, an Immigration and Customs official, left, speaking
yesterday at the T. Don Hutto Family Detention Center for illegal immigrants.
Detainees, right, wear uniforms that officials compared to scrubs. (Photo by
Charles Reed/Department of Homeland Security, via Associated Press)
 (Pool photo by L.M. Otero)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Travel Agents in Arizona Helped Smuggle Illegal Immigrants by Plane, Authorities
Say

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 615 words


The latest package deal that smugglers have offered to illegal immigrants in
sneaking across the Mexican border includes flights from Las Vegas to points
around the country arranged by Arizona travel agents, law enforcement officials
in Phoenix said yesterday.

Details of this air travel business, which the authorities said totaled $2
million in bookings, were disclosed in felony indictments brought on Thursday by
Terry Goddard, the Arizona attorney general, against 14 travel agents from six
agencies in his state.

The charges were filed after a yearlong investigation in which agents posed as
smugglers, or coyotes, and went to the travel agencies to arrange flights for
customers they identified as illegal immigrants. The charges include human
smuggling, racketeering and money-laundering.

The authorities said the case revealed another facet of the vast smuggling
business that has flourished in Arizona and other border states, as stepped-up
border enforcement has made illegal crossing more difficult and pushed up
smugglers' fees.

Typically, a smuggler's package includes a guide for the trek across the border,
a drop house to rest in on the American side and overland travel to destinations
within the United States.

State law enforcement officials said that smugglers had turned to sending
immigrants by air through McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas because
air travel had become less risky than long overland trips, and there were fewer
immigration agents patrolling in Las Vegas than at Phoenix Sky Harbor
International Airport. Smugglers sent their immigrant clients in vans and trucks
to Las Vegas, officials said.

The prosecution was brought under an antismuggling law adopted in Arizona in
August 2005. Law enforcement officials charged that the six agencies had
arranged 6,800 one-way air tickets worth $2 million for illegal immigrants since
the law took effect.

During the undercover operation, the agents bought $35,000 worth of one-way
tickets from the six agencies, Mr. Goddard said in a statement. No illegal
immigrants were actually transported in the operation, officials said, and no
immigrants were charged in the case.

Marina Tours and Travel, one of the agencies named in the indictment, said in a
statement that it ''believes in American enterprise and the rule of law'' and
that it would cooperate with the attorney general in the case.

Telephone calls were not answered at Acapulco Travel and Tour, Apricus Travel,
Mundo Travel and Planet Travel, the other agencies in Phoenix with agents
charged in the indictment. At the sixth agency, Toronto's Travel in Scottsdale,
a man who answered the phone declined to give his name and said he had been
advised not to comment.

The accused travel agents were given summonses to appear for arraignments next
week.

The investigation was prompted by a raid in February 2006, on a smuggler's drop
house in Arizona, officials said. In the search, agents found 25 one-way plane
tickets from Las Vegas arranged by one of the agencies.

''It was not simply the act of selling the ticket, but actually doing so while
they were aware its use is to smuggle a human being,'' said Andrei Cherny, the
assistant attorney general in charge of the case.

Calls to the Phoenix Police Department were not returned. Lt. Vince Piano of the
Phoenix police told The Associated Press that some travel agents gave advice
about how illegal immigrant customers should dress and act in the airport to
avoid attention, and where they could obtain fake identity documents.

Smugglers charge $2,000 to as much as $10,000 for a guided border crossing that
includes air travel to distant destinations, officials said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 26, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bipartisan Group Drafting Bill For a Simpler Path to Citizenship

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1547 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 25


Counting on the support of the new Democratic majority in Congress, Democratic
lawmakers and their Republican allies are working on measures that could place
millions of illegal immigrants on a more direct path to citizenship than would a
bill that the Senate passed in the spring.

The lawmakers are considering abandoning a requirement in the Senate bill that
would compel several million illegal immigrants to leave the United States
before becoming eligible to apply for citizenship.

The lawmakers are also considering denying financing for 700 miles of fencing
along the border with Mexico, a law championed by Republicans that passed with
significant Democratic support.

Details of the bill, which would be introduced early next year, are being
drafted. The lawmakers, who hope for bipartisan support, will almost certainly
face pressure to compromise on the issues from some Republicans and conservative
Democrats.

Still, the proposals reflect significant shifts since the November elections, as
well as critical support from the Homeland Security Department.

Proponents said the prospects for such a measure, which would include tougher
border security and a guest worker plan, had markedly improved since Nov. 7.

The Senate plans to introduce its immigration bill next month with an eye toward
passage in March or April, officials said. The House is expected to consider its
version later. President Bush said last week that he hoped to sign an
immigration bill next year.

The major lawmakers drafting the legislation include Senators Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona, along with
Representatives Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, and Luis V. Gutierrez,
Democrat of Illinois. The four met this month, and their staffs have begun
working on a bill.

''I'm very hopeful about this, both in terms of the substance and the politics
of it,'' said Mr. Kennedy, the incoming chairman of the Senate Immigration,
Border Security and Citizenship Subcommittee.

Mr. Kennedy acknowledged that there would be hurdles. But he and other lawmakers
say Republicans and Democrats are now more likely to work together to repair a
system widely considered as broken.

House Republicans blocked consideration of the bill that passed the Senate this
year, saying it amounted to an amnesty for lawbreakers and voicing confidence
that a tough stance would touch off a groundswell of support in the
Congressional elections. The strategy largely failed.

Hispanic voters, a swing constituency that Republicans covet, abandoned the
party in large numbers. Several Republican hardliners, including Representatives
John Hostettler of Indiana and J. D. Hayworth of Arizona, lost their seats.
After the dismal showing, House Republicans denied F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of
Wisconsin, the departing chairman of the Judiciary Committee and an architect of
the House immigration approach, a senior position on any major committee in the
new Congress.

Domestic security officials have voiced support for important elements of the
framework under consideration. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has
repeatedly raised doubts about the effectiveness of border fencing in remote
desert areas. Mr. Bush signed the fence bill this year, but Congress did not
appropriate enough money for it. Officials say they would also prefer a less
burdensome process than the original Senate bill outlined.

That bill divided the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants into three groups,
those living here for five years or more, those here for two to five years and
those here for less than two years.

All but the illegal immigrants living here for five years or more, roughly seven
million, would have to leave the country briefly to be eligible for legal
status. Those here for fewer than two years would have to leave the country and
would not even be guaranteed a slot in a guest worker plan.

Domestic security officials said the original plan would have been enormously
difficult to administer because many illegal immigrants lacked documentation to
prove how long they had been in the United States.

The officials said it would have fueled a market in fraudulent documents as
illegal immigrants scrambled to offer proof of residency.

The three-tiered approach would also discourage millions of illegal immigrants
from registering, driving millions deeper underground.

''We do have concerns over breaking it down into that tiered system,'' said a
domestic security official who insisted on anonymity. ''When you do that, you
run the risk of people trying to create false documentation that would get them
the highest benefits.''

Also expected to have prominent roles in the debate are Representatives Zoe
Lofgren, the California Democrat who is likely to head the House Immigration,
Border Security and Claims Subcommittee; Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat
who has followed immigration issues closely for many years; and Bennie Thompson,
the Mississippi Democrat who is set to lead the House Homeland Security
Committee and has said he plans to re-evaluate the 700-mile fence.

But Mr. Flake described himself as optimistic, saying the elections had
disabused many Republicans of the notion that opposing legalization and guest
worker plans would win widespread support.

''That illusion is gone,'' he said.

The percentage of Hispanics who voted for Republicans fell to 29 percent, from
44 percent in 2004, and some Republicans say passing immigration bills is a
crucial part of the effort to win them back.

Mr. Flake warned that some Republicans might balk at proposals like broadening
the number of illegal immigrants eligible for a less burdensome path to
citizenship, making passage of bipartisan legislation potentially ''politically
more difficult.''

The prospects for a bill that contains such a proposal remain particularly
uncertain in the House, where many prominent Democrats want to ensure broad
bipartisan backing as part of their efforts to maintain their majority in 2008,
Congressional aides said.

The House Democrats are concerned about protecting newly elected moderate and
conservative Democrats, some of whom had campaigned against legalizing illegal
immigrants.

It is also unclear whether Mr. Gutierrez and Mr. Flake will produce the only
House legislation on immigration and whether their plan will ultimately become
the basis for the bill that emerges.

In the Senate, Mr. Kennedy's bill certainly has the backing of the Democratic
leadership, Congressional aides said.

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, argued that expanding citizenship
eligibility and abandoning financing for the fence would alienate moderates in
both parties. The three-tier legalization system, a hard-fought compromise, was
critical for moderate Republican support for the original bill.

The plan under consideration would allow 10 million or 11 million illegal
immigrants to become eligible to apply for citizenship without returning home,
up from 7 million in the original Senate bill. To be granted citizenship, they
would have to remain employed, pass background checks, pay fines and back taxes,
and enroll in English classes.

''I think it's a nonstarter,'' said Mr. Cornyn, who opposes a path to
citizenship for illegal workers, but supports a plan for temporary workers that
would let foreigners work here temporarily before returning home.

Congressional aides and lawyers familiar with the proposed bills emphasize that
it will be very difficult for a smaller group of illegal immigrants, those who
arrived after a certain date, perhaps 2004, to become citizens. The aides said
the bill might include incentives for illegal immigrants to leave the country.
While they hope such elements may ease concerns, many challenges remain.

Some powerful unions, which expect to exert more leverage in the new Congress,
remain deeply opposed to the temporary worker program in the Senate bill. The
unions say it threatens American jobs.

Officials at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. say they can scuttle such a plan next year, even
though Mr. Bush and businesses say it is critical to ensure an adequate labor
force.

There is also the political clock to consider. Supporters of immigration
measures acknowledge that the prospects for a bipartisan bill will dim
significantly if a bill is not passed before the presidential primaries of 2008
are in full swing.

Some Congressional aides and immigrants' advocates worry about the commitment of
Mr. McCain, a likely presidential candidate in 2008.

Mr. McCain has long supported legalization that would not require illegal
immigrants to leave the United States. Some advocates fear that his ambitions
may lead to a shifting of that stance to avoid alienating moderate Republicans.

A spokeswoman for Mr. McCain said last week that he was not available to comment
on the bill being drafted.

Many lawmakers say their hope is growing that Congress will pass an immigration
bill next year.

''There are going to be hard choices that are going to be made, because we need
to build a bipartisan, broad-based coalition,'' said Mr. Gutierrez, who leads
the House Democratic immigration group. ''But I'm hopeful that in the
environment in which we're working now we can get it done.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 15, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Border Dividing Arizona

BYLINE: By Joseph Lelyveld.

Joseph Lelyveld is the author most recently of ''Omaha Blues: A Memory Loop''
and a former correspondent and executive editor at The Times. His last article
for the magazine was a profile of Senator Chuck Hagel.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 8285 words


When House Republicans calculated that their best bet for saving their majority
was to run this fall as if illegal immigration and border security were the most
urgent issues facing the country -- bigger by far than that great unmentionable,
Iraq -- they were finally speaking the language of a Republican state legislator
from Mesa, Ariz., named Russell Pearce. The Arizonan was there before Tom
Tancredo, the Colorado congressman who talks of making a run for the White House
on the issue; there before even Lou Dobbs and Rush Limbaugh if not Pat Buchanan.
A fast-talking former cop, Pearce went into electoral politics only after it
became clear that he wouldn't soon be able to realize his dream of becoming
sheriff of Maricopa County, the area around Phoenix where more than half of
Arizona lives. As a lawmaker, Pearce hasn't just embraced the issue of illegal
immigration as a tactic; for him it's a passion -- his opponents say an
obsession -- ''the root cause'' of almost any other problem Arizona and the
nation face. Talk about terrorists and high crime rates, he'll say the border is
undefended.

Are schools failing? They're being overwhelmed by ''a population that don't put
a high value to education.'' Are there a million people in Arizona without
health care? ''Yeah, they broke into the country illegally. They came into the
country poor, they're gonna stay poor. You've imported them!''

Russell Pearce's single-mindedness has proved to be a force in Arizona, setting
the political agenda, helping to make illegal immigration the single most
important and contested issue in the state. ''He's in the catbird seat,'' a
Democratic officeholder conceded last spring. Pearce can point to nine bills on
illegal aliens that he has helped drive to passage in the State Legislature: to
authorize major expenditures of state money on border enforcement, normally a
federal responsibility; to deprive ''undocumented'' residents of social
services; to ban Spanish as a language of communication by state agencies and
officials; to define being in the state illegally as ''trespass,'' a misdemeanor
on the first offense and a felony on the second; to empower the local police to
enforce immigration law. But nine times, the Democratic governor, Janet
Napolitano, has turned him back with vetoes on crisply asserted fiscal and
constitutional grounds, urging him and his Republican supporters to stop playing
''political games.''

''Shame, shame, shame on those who continue to ignore the No. 1 issue facing
America,'' Pearce fumed last month when I visited his office at the State
Capitol in Phoenix, which displayed not one but two portraits of John Wayne. The
anathema he pronounced was intended not just for his governor but also for the
Republican president and the Republican sponsor of the immigration-reform bill
the president had backed; in Pearce's terms, ''the treacherous, treasonous
bill'' the Senate passed in March. It was known as the McCain-Kennedy bill,
McCain being, of course, Arizona's senior senator and, it is presumed, a leading
contender for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination. And it contained two
provisions Russell Pearce could not abide: a path to citizenship for longtime
residents who, after entering illegally, held steady employment, learned English
and paid their taxes (plus fines to be levied for entering the country without a
visa); and an opening for hundreds of thousands of temporary ''guest workers''
to come across legally for limited periods of work.

Was he saying that John McCain himself was ''treacherous, treasonous?'' I asked,
interrupting Pearce's discourse in midflow.

''Yes, I am,'' he replied, not pausing for breath as he raced on.

In Arizona, it becomes evident, the battle over illegal immigration is, in one
of its dimensions, a battle over the future of the Republican Party in the state
and, because of McCain's ambitions, nationally as well. It also becomes evident
that what anti-immigrant zealots call an ''invasion'' is taking place not in
spite of federal policies but, at least in Arizona, partly because of them. For
12 years the Border Patrol has deliberately funneled the immigrant flow away
from settled urban areas like El Paso and San Diego (and, later, small Arizona
border communities like Douglas and Nogales) into the Arizona deserts, where
intruders can be more easily spotted, tracked and apprehended by its officers,
using everything at their disposal, from high-tech sensors and drones to
helicopters, jeeps, floodlights and horses. The number of arrests in Arizona
alone has been running at more than half a million a year (slightly more than
California, Texas and New Mexico combined for three years running). The number
of arrests is larger than the number of individuals who get caught, since many
are stopped two or three times. By the same token, it is almost certainly
smaller than the number who eventually make it past the patrols -- by a factor
of two, three or four, depending on who's doing the extrapolating in order to
score what point. The average number of arrests on Arizona's 376-mile border
works out to more than 1,400 a day over the last two years. An Arizona
politician running on the border crisis can therefore safely assert, since no
one really knows, that 5,000 or 6,000 illegal aliens cross into the state every
night.

What cannot be disputed is that year after year, hundreds die in the desert,
usually from hyperthermia (267 by the official count in fiscal year 2005, and
199 for almost the same period in 2006). Among the people who make themselves
heard on radio talk shows and in Internet postings, there are some who argue
that the intruders get what is coming to them. ''Break the law, pay the price.
And another one bites the dust!'' said a posting by a reader reacting to another
report of a death in the desert. After crosses were displayed at a small
pro-immigrant rally in Phoenix on Labor Day to commemorate the dead, a talk-show
host named Bruce Jacobs, who speaks about little besides the ''invasion'' on his
drive-time program on the Phoenix station KFYI, objected furiously to the
display, in an accent that betrayed his own distant origins, in Ronkonkoma, on
Long Island. ''Whites didn't kill these people, America didn't kill these
people,'' he said, his voice rising. ''They killed themselves!'' He meant that
they'd be alive if they had stayed where they belonged, instead of giving in to
the siren call of gainful employment in the globalized economy promoted by the
United States.

So there's enough raw feeling out there and enough raw reality -- or so you'd
think -- to make a state that has become the main thoroughfare for illegal
border traffic responsive to the electoral line of House Republicans. While
there were probably enough votes in the House last spring to enact some version
of McCain-Kennedy had it been brought to the floor, that would have taken an ad
hoc bipartisan coalition of Democrats and moderate Republicans -- something the
current House leadership forbids, allowing bills to come to a vote only when ''a
majority of the majority'' supports them. The majority of the majority,
responding to what's called its ''base,'' wants to seal the border and deny
permanent residence -- which they say would amount to ''amnesty'' -- to the
uncounted millions of ''illegals'' already in the country; estimates run from 8
million to 11 million to more than 20 million (roughly half of whom happen not
to have crossed the border on foot but simply overstayed visas).

Surely a red state that has supported a Democrat only once in the last 14
presidential elections might rally to such a program. But then how come Governor
Napolitano, who's up for re-election next month, was so obviously unfazed by a
showy visit by the House Republican leadership, including Speaker Dennis
Hastert, to the border last summer and two hearings that were staged in her
state as a way of whipping up support for the caucus's position? ''If they don't
know about the border by now, they don't want to know,'' she told me
dismissively, spreading out her hands with the palms up and mugging a humorous
look that said something like, ''Who do they think they're kidding?'' Then,
realizing that my recording device could not capture her look, she filled in the
blank with a sound culminating in a loud laugh. ''Pshaw,'' she said. ''That's
how I'd describe it. Pshaw!'' What was needed from Congress was a workable
reform, she said, not more posturing.

A former U.S. attorney and state attorney general -- described by her opponents
as well as her supporters as ''smart'' and ''tough'' -- Napolitano has been
dealing with immigration issues for a dozen years. Political photo ops by
newcomers to the border don't impress her. For all the Republican efforts to
nail her on immigration, it will be a huge upset if she's beaten. Does she know
something the majority of the majority in Washington has yet to figure out?

And how come, if the issue of illegal immigration is the House majority's ticket
to remaining in power, its own creature, the National Republican Campaign
Committee, was spending money in the Republican primary held last month to
defeat one of Russell Pearce's most conspicuous allies, a down-the-line,
seal-the-border, anti-immigrant crusader named Randy Graf, in the one House race
in Arizona in which a seat was clearly up for grabs? A self-proclaimed
Minuteman, running in the Eighth Congressional District -- a border district in
the southeastern corner of the state, the very one that gave rise to the
volunteer militia known as the Minuteman Project -- Graf was leading in polls of
likely primary voters. Yet the smart money in both parties seemed to be betting
that a Graf victory would guarantee that the seat, Republican for the last 22
years, would swing Democratic. So while national parties normally steer clear of
local primaries -- and virtually never intervene in the other party's --
out-of-state Republican money was flowing in the Eighth to a moderate with a
''common sense'' approach to immigration issues not unlike John McCain's, while
national Democratic money, in a peculiar twist, was paying for ads portraying
that same moderate as a wimp on illegals, in hopes of putting the supposedly
beatable Randy Graf over the top in the other party's primary.

In talking tough on the border and on illegal immigration, Republican candidates
can be said to be running against themselves. After all, they control the White
House, along with both chambers of Congress, which so far this year have
produced two irreconcilable pieces of legislation and therefore a stalemate. The
cleavage in the party is between those who want to systematize the country's
widening dependence on foreign labor (the Senate version) -- to try to take the
''illegal'' out of illegal immigration -- and those who want to slam the door
(the House version). Every 10 years or so Washington is seized with the issue of
immigration, and eventually a complicated, contradictory law is produced, making
matters worse. After supposed reforms in 1986 and 1996, it became conspicuously
harder for migrants to come and go on a seasonal basis; therefore they stayed
and, at great hardship and cost, brought their families. The systematizers talk
about the needs of a global economy while more and more alien workers, depending
on forged Social Security cards and driver's licenses, get paid off the books by
subcontractors. Taking a more populist stand, Republican door-slammers call for
a crackdown on employers who have become addicted to cheap labor, just as union
leaders once did before union jobs were shipped abroad.

In a border state like Arizona, this history is not unknown; the promise of
reform and the promise of enforcement are each viewed with a certain amount of
skepticism. Besides, red states are seldom red all over; often they have patches
of blue, especially around large cities and universities. Arizona's Eighth is
decidedly purple. It takes in much of Tucson, which is liberal by Phoenix
standards, and runs to the edge of the University of Arizona campus. Republicans
have a registration edge, but nearly one-third of its voters call themselves
independent. Many in older generations can remember voting for Morris Udall, a
venerated liberal Democrat. Also worth mentioning may be the fact that its 9,000
square miles all belonged to Mexico until the 1853 Gadsden Purchase established
the border where it now stands.

Since 1984, the district has been represented by Jim Kolbe, a friend of John
McCain and like McCain a U.S. Navy Vietnam vet. Kolbe has been considered a
leader on Capitol Hill in fights for the North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement and
programs to combat AIDS in Africa. Ever since a gay publication threatened to
out him 10 years ago, the congressman has lived with a label: ''the only openly
gay Republican in Congress.'' (For an example of the spread of knowledge in the
information age, type those words into Google; you're instantly informed you
have 958,000 ''results.'') Arizona's Eighth faithfully re-elected Kolbe
thereafter and, having come out, he was quietly forthright on issues touching on
sex and sexual orientation, identifying himself as pro-choice and a supporter of
same-sex marriage. Kolbe seemed invulnerable, but in the 2004 Republican primary
he got a bad scare from Randy Graf, who, running to his right on immigration and
border issues, pulled in nearly 43 percent of the vote.

Last year Kolbe announced he was stepping down. When I visited his office on
Capitol Hill in June, he insisted that he could have beaten Randy Graf by a
wider margin in a rematch. Graf and the immigration issue, Kolbe told me, hadn't
driven him from politics. (''I want to get out while people are still urging me
to stay,'' he said. ''I want to get out while I can walk out and not be carried
out of here.'') Kolbe had already endorsed one of Graf's primary opponents,
Steve Huffman. He would never support Graf, he vowed. If, despite his best
efforts, his old opponent took the nomination, Congressman Kolbe said, it was
''an absolute certainty, guaranteed'' that the seat would go Democratic. The
Eighth could never be won, he said, by a ''know-nothing party person --
anti-immigrant, anti-abortion, anti-stem-cell-research, anti-gay-rights,
anti-everything, right down the line.''

Randy Graf is anti all those things, but his disposition is sunny and easygoing
in a Midwestern way. He informs you pleasantly that he was born in St. Vincent's
Hospital in Green Bay, Wisc., two months before Vince Lombardi became head coach
of the Packers. Obviously he does not view this as a non sequitur. (Only 30
percent of Arizonans were born in the state, so it's not unusual for a
politician to have been born somewhere else. John McCain, son of a naval
officer, was born in the Panama Canal Zone; the state's other senator, Jon Kyl,
a Republican, in Nebraska; Janet Napolitano, in New York City, then raised in
Albuquerque.) Graf, who is now 47, moved to Green Valley south of Tucson to take
up a post as a golf pro when Jim Kolbe was in his first term in Congress. Green
Valley has a median age of 72.2 and a population, though it is only 40 miles
from the border, that is 96.6 percent ''white non-Hispanic,'' according to a Web
site for retirees looking for a place to settle. Eventually Green Valley sent
Graf to the State Legislature. Though many of his supporters were also from the
Midwest, they were not inclined to think of themselves as migrants.

Graf's political mantra was standard for a Reagan Republican when he was elected
to the state House of Representatives in Phoenix in 2000. He talked about
lowering taxes, downsizing government, lowering taxes, protecting the rights of
gun owners and lowering taxes. The year 2000 actually set the high-tide mark for
the flow of illegal aliens in what the Border Patrol calls its Tucson sector --
already by then its busiest -- encompassing an area of 90,000 square miles along
262 miles of border and including all of Graf's legislative district: the Border
Patrol detained 616,346 aliens that year in the sector. As Graf tells it, it
wasn't the numbers or the growing presence of the Border Patrol giving chase on
highways between Green Valley and the border that drove him to seize on the
issue. It was an epiphany one evening in a supermarket. He found himself, so he
says, in line behind a grandmother, mother and daughter from a single Hispanic
family -- the daughter, eight months pregnant -- all making their purchases with
food stamps and uncomprehending when the sales clerk addressed them in English.
He had no way of being sure they were here illegally, but for Graf it became a
vision of a connection between taxes and illegal immigration that needed to be
elevated to a cause.

Sept. 11, 2001, added a whole other layer to this parable. ''We live in a
different day and age in the post-9/11 world,'' Graf now says. ''Ninety-nine
percent of them may be coming to support their families, but 1 percent of four
million is still an awful lot of people.''

The argument that the border must be secured because of the threat of terrorism
remains largely theoretical. The Border Patrol keeps a count on non-Mexicans it
detains (O.T.M.'s, they're called, for ''Other Than Mexican''). Mostly they're
from Central America and farther south, but a trickle can be traced to what the
Department of Homeland Security classes as ''special interest'' countries (a
euphemism that refers mostly to countries in the Muslim crescent from North
Africa to Pakistan). In the Tucson sector, just 15 such persons had been picked
up by Sept. 10 in the fiscal year that was about to end -- scarcely one a month,
a total that could easily be exceeded in an afternoon at a busy airport
receiving flights from those same places. (In all its sectors, on the northern
as well as southern borders, the Border Patrol detained a total of 418 aliens
from the ''special interest'' countries in a period of nearly a year. The
argument that the influx includes gang members and other criminal elements
stands up better. The more difficult crossing the border becomes, the more
opportunities there are for the human traffickers known as coyotes, who promise
to steer those heading north to safe houses or cars driven by accomplices or
relatives, at prices ranging as high as $2,000 a head. The Border Patrol keeps
tallies of those it catches who prove to have criminal records, once its
computers recognize their fingerprints. In the Tucson sector, about 440 a month
are picked up with records of burglary, assault or narcotics charges. Coyotes,
when they are caught, face charges of ''alien smuggling'' under the U.S.
Criminal Code.)

Randy Graf's second epiphany was also not driven by numbers. It came at the
start of 2004, when he heard a Republican president speak feelingly of immigrant
families from Mexico who ''bring to America the values of faith in God, love of
family, hard work and self-reliance.'' Citing his own experience as a border
governor, George W. Bush said that the border needed to be secured but also that
a broken immigration system had to be made ''more compassionate and more
humane.'' Congress should ''increase the annual number of green cards that can
lead to citizenship,'' the president said. This was not what Graf wanted to hear
from the leader of his party. He had a snapshot of himself and the president
hanging in his office at the State Capitol; he turned the picture upside down
and left it hanging that way for a couple of days as a symbol of his protest.
And he decided to run for Congress, in opposition to what the president was
calling a comprehensive reform.

Graf isn't interested in reforming the system; he wants stricter enforcement of
laws on the books -- ''zero tolerance'' for illegal migrants, those trying to
cross the border and those already here. If that takes putting the National
Guard on the border in a military role and giving the local police the authority
and resources to enforce immigration law, he's all for it. In 2004, Graf,
Russell Pearce and Randy Pullen, a Republican national committeeman, were the
prime shapers of Proposition 200, an Arizona state ballot initiative designed to
limit the spending of government funds on services for anyone in the country
illegally. Governor Napolitano and every single member of the Arizona
Congressional delegation opposed it, yet it passed with 56 percent of the vote.

An ''honest debate'' is needed about ''changing demographics,'' Graf argues. The
mass border crossings are not just illegal; in their scale, they suggest that
the cultural identity of his adopted state could change. ''You can almost say
that Los Angeles has been transformed already,'' he says, clinching his point
with an example he seems to think will cause a shudder. A half million
immigrants demonstrated there last spring. The mayor, a Latino himself,
supported them. Graf saw that as a warning for Arizona.

One pillar of Graf's support has been in the retirement communities around Green
Valley, where few residents seemed to wonder who built their houses or mowed
their golf courses. Another was in frontier Cochise County, where the U.S. Army
subdued the Apache chief Geronimo, where the shootout at the O.K. Corral
occurred, where the Wobblies battled the copper bosses -- and where, after all
that history had been turned into lore for tourists, ranchers who graze their
cattle on large tracts of scrub land leased from the state became infuriated by
the constant incursions of illegal aliens in large numbers. In their desperate
passage, the intruders cause regular livestock losses by snipping fences, by
littering the desert with plastic bottles and other debris that can play havoc
with the delicate insides of a ruminant and by now and then partaking of a calf,
despite the risk that even a small roasting fire might betray their whereabouts.
The Graf campaign got under way in the county in 2004 at about the same time as
the Minuteman Project; inevitably, they formed an alliance -- the candidate,
having declared himself a Minuteman, receiving the endorsement of the movement's
leader, Chris Simcox.

I'd encountered Minutemen at the Hispanic rally at the Capitol in Phoenix on
Labor Day, which failed dismally to attract a respectable fraction of the
estimated 150,000 who turned out on Phoenix's streets in May waving banners and
signs that said, somos america or we are america. This time the signs of the
counterdemonstrators were almost as conspicuous. you are central americans, we
are north americans, you are trespassers, so -- vacate -- leave, a Minuteman
placard demanded. what part of illegal don't you understand? asked another. I
hadn't gotten far trying to chat with the people planted under those signs, so I
asked Randy Graf to introduce me to a Minuteman. To my surprise, he managed to
match me up with one from my part of the country, a former consultant on new
product lines who once worked in Manhattan and last lived near Princeton, N.J.,
before retiring in Sonoita, where he now tended several head of longhorn cattle
as a hobby.

No other houses or human activities are visible in the view through the picture
windows of Gene Cafarelli's spacious high-ceilinged stucco home, exquisitely
sited on a piece of what was once a 2,000-acre ranch, now divided into two dozen
parcels for high-end dwellings like his, none of which are supposed to be
visible from any other. What you see is not obviously different from what a
Spanish conquistador passing this way in the 16th century might have seen -- a
long view across a rolling valley, usually dun-colored but now, in September,
turned green by the heaviest rainy season in years, to the Whetstone Mountains
shimmering at a distance. But when Cafarelli goes out at night, he packs a gun,
something he never thought to do in New Jersey.

Although he has had no direct encounters with migrants, he senses their
presence. Some of his neighbors have had their homes broken into while they were
away; necessities like food and clothing were seized, tradable luxuries like
TV's and laptops left behind. Elderly neighbors have heard Spanish outside their
windows at night; the serene landscape is actually teeming. Cafarelli imagines
that he was often at close quarters with illegal immigrants when he commuted to
New York, but he didn't recognize the look. Now he thinks he would. If there's a
problem of racism, it's the racism of the Mexican ruling classes, he thinks,
cynically pleased as they are to export their poor in return for dollar
remittances in the billions that the laborers then send home.

The Minuteman Project was in part symbolic, he acknowledged, a way of calling
attention to the failure of government to secure the border. The volunteers have
no power of detention; they can only call the Border Patrol when they spot
intruders through their night-vision binoculars. (In fact, other citizen patrols
have been known over the years to detain migrants at gunpoint.) Now, despite his
68 years, the semiretired consultant -- tall, white-haired, bronzed -- is in
training with a new search-and-rescue team the Minutemen are forming. Humane
Borders, a Tucson church group, trucks fresh water to stations it has planted in
the desert along heavily traveled routes. The Border Patrol sends out its own
rescue teams to treat dehydrated, footsore aliens. Even the Minutemen, known
widely as vigilantes, have their kinder, gentler side, it seems. The day before,
Cafarelli was on two four-hour training missions in the bush, returning just
before midnight. Each man carried two gallons of water, one for himself, the
other for anyone they might encounter. As it happened, they encountered no one.

''I've always admired people who combine intellectual activity with action,''
Cafarelli told me. In his mind, the Minutemen are patriots deserving of the
description.

In the minds of other Arizonans, the Minutemen and the broader anti-immigration
movement put at risk major sectors of the economy, which have long depended on a
supply of migrants. Cochise growers, for instance, are often on the other side
of the issue from its ranchers. I spoke to an onion farmer who said he expects
to plant 100 acres next year instead of 200 because he didn't think he'd be able
to hire enough harvesters. ''They yak about securing the border, yak about 'no
amnesty,''' the farmer said. ''We need to secure the border, but we've got to
have a guest-worker program.'' A builder I spoke to couldn't say enough about
the work ethic of the migrants employed on his projects, primarily roofing or
putting up drywall. ''God, do I love my boys,'' he said. ''Mind you, I don't
know whether my boys are legals or not.'' He would not be surprised, the man
admitted, to learn that 25 percent of them had given him bogus Social Security
numbers.

Randy Graf, the former golf pro, wasn't the only self-described Minuteman
running. Early in the year another offered himself as a Republican candidate
against Governor Napolitano, running essentially a one-issue, tough-guy campaign
on Arizona's responsibility -- whatever the feds did or failed to do -- to
control its own southern border. Were it not for the fact that he bore Arizona's
most potent political name, Don Goldwater -- a real estate investor and nephew
of the late senator -- would have been described as a political nonentity: his
campaign resume mentioned that he'd been a delegate to one national convention,
volunteered in some campaigns and served as a den leader for the Cub Scouts.
Some active Republicans said they had never heard of him. But running basically
on shoe leather, the illegals and the name -- ''A name you know, a name you can
trust,'' his brochures said -- the candidate, who proved to be a tireless
campaigner, overcame a lack of funds and built a lead over the summer in polls
on the Republican primary race.

Goldwater's most original promise was his pledge to empower the local police to
detain illegal aliens and corral them in an encampment on the border -- a
''temporary tent city,'' he called it -- where they could be put to work
building fences and clearing the desert of the refuse they and those like them
had scattered when they came across. When a Spanish news agency reported that
Goldwater wanted to build a ''concentration camp'' for illegals, he demanded and
got a retraction, but not before a statement had been put out in Washington by
Senator McCain denouncing any plan for a concentration camp on the Arizona
border.

I chatted with Goldwater in September outside a movie theater in the
northernmost shopping mall on Scottsdale Road, where the desert and Scottsdale's
newest housing tracts bump against one another. The theater was previewing a
documentary called ''The Border War,'' and a large audience of anti-immigrant
stalwarts had turned out. I'd looked for evidence that his uncle had crusaded on
the question of immigration, I told the candidate, and hadn't found any. Barry
Goldwater, he said, always felt strongly about the rule of law. How was he
feeling these days, I asked, about Senator McCain? ''He knows he won't control
the state party when Don Goldwater is elected governor,'' the candidate said
with calm certitude. ''He's facing a revolt by the grass roots.''

Randy Graf endorsed Goldwater. So did Russell Pearce, one of several more
prominent Republicans who'd flirted with the idea of taking on Janet Napolitano.
(''I'd love to get in the ring with her,'' he said.) Another was Maricopa
County's popular, showboating sheriff, Joe Arpaio, a former station chief in
Mexico for the Drug Enforcement Administration who seems to enjoy the attention
he gets when he hints he might run for higher office but then never does. (It
was Arpaio who put up Arizona's first tent city in Phoenix, to house the county
jail's overflow behind razor wire, making the point that there would be no limit
to jail capacity in his jurisdiction. It has since become a photo op for
presidential candidates, including George Bush in 2000 and Mitt Romney, the
governor of Massachusetts, this year. Pearce, once Maricopa's chief deputy, says
it was all his idea.) Most obvious as a potential candidate was Representative
J.D. Hayworth, a late but fervent convert to the cause of sealing the border,
who finally decided, he says, that in a time of national crisis it was more
important that he hang on to his seniority in the House, for Arizona's sake.

Each said he thought Napolitano could be beaten. Each had a reason not to take
her on. That left the little-known Goldwater facing off in the Republican
primary against Len Munsil, a ''movement conservative for 20 years,'' by his own
description, whose dogged campaigning on pro-life, pro-abstinence,
anti-pornography, anti-same-sex-marriage issues had won him a solid base among
evangelicals. For Munsil -- an able candidate but far to the right by Arizona
standards -- illegal immigration seemed at first to be an afterthought. But just
after Labor Day, with less than two weeks to go to the primary, he proclaimed it
his highest priority. As governor, he pledged, he would station the National
Guard on the border, spend state money to put sensors and fences where the
federal authorities had yet to put them and establish a new Arizona Border
Patrol to back up the U.S. Border Patrol, which already has 3,300 officers in
the state and stands to have more than 5,000 by 2008 under President Bush's
promised expansion of the federal force.

Janet Napolitano watched the escalating arms race between the two far-right
Republican gubernatorial candidates with wry humor and maybe a hint of disdain,
from her office on top of a stubby tower that is built into the Arizona Capitol.
She wondered where her opponents would find the cash to back up their costly
promises. Would they raise taxes or cut programs and if so, which ones, she
asked, offering a preview of her own campaign. Her way had been to proclaim, in
August 2005, a state of emergency on the border and demand that Washington
station Guard troops there and pay for them. She wrote to Defense Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld and, after a month, heard from a deputy who said it was a matter
for the Department of Homeland Security. Then she sent a legal brief in the form
of a letter jointly addressed to Rumsfeld and the secretary of Homeland
Security, Michael Chertoff. All she got back was an answering legal brief from
deputies with more citations of laws and policies, bland assurances of how
seriously they'd considered her plea, how earnestly they recognized the problem,
how deeply they intended to deliberate on it and how little they could do. Then
in May everything changed: the president announced in an Oval Office speech that
he was sending the Guard to the border to take on some of the Border Patrol's
auxiliary duties. The next day he flew to Yuma and posed for pictures on the
border with Janet Napolitano. Arizona newspapers reported that he'd embraced her
plan. Republicans who'd geared up to fight Napolitano on border issues were less
than pleased. Their president had made it possible for this Democrat to claim
that progress was being made. (In the same way, she's even likely to benefit
from the recent announcement that the Department of Homeland Security will be
paying Boeing $67 million over the next eight months to develop a system
combining radar, ground sensors, cameras and unmanned aircraft that will first
be tested in Arizona.)

In fact, the number of border intruders actually started to come down over the
summer. This may have had more to do with the heavy monsoon rains than with the
National Guard. Napolitano herself suspects that some Mexicans have yet to
figure out that the Guard is on the border to build roads, repair fences and set
up observation posts, not to shoot border crossers. ''I know people need a sense
that laws are being enforced,'' she told me. ''They get nervous and frustrated
when they think it's out of control. And Arizonans got to the point where they
believed -- I believed -- it was out of control.'' Those, she figures, who want
to seal the border and bar immigrants, period, rather than ''manage the border''
won't vote for her anyway. Those who want a system that's less cruel, less
chaotic are ready, she says, to consider realistic approaches.

So when Republicans accuse her of talking a good game and doing little or
nothing, she'll retort, she says, ''When are you going to call on Washington,
D.C., to do their part?'' Her idea of a workable system is more expansive than
the bill the Senate passed. Like President Bush, she would go beyond a temporary
''guest worker'' program to a system that would allow for more visas and green
cards for Mexican workers seeking permanent residence. The numbers would have to
be adjusted to changing economic circumstances. Most important, there would have
to be real penalties for American employers who hired illegals. Many such
employers contribute to political campaigns, which may be why, year after year,
Congress has withheld financing from agencies charged with making the sanctions
it long ago enacted stick.

Napolitano presents herself as a problem-solver, not an ideologue. (''I think
that's just so anachronistic,'' she remarked when I noted the absence of liberal
rhetoric in her pronouncements.) Her tone is brisk, managerial; the language she
uses is markedly cooler than the appeals to tradition and compassion found in
Bush's several addresses on the subject. But she is prepared to ask, in response
to Russell Pearce's complaints about the high costs of educating the huge number
of Spanish-language children in Arizona schools, ''whether we want to take a
failed national immigration policy out on a child in school.''

''I'm the governor of this state,'' Napolitano continued, a suggestion of heat
now in her voice. ''I've got, let's assume, 160,000 kids in school who speak
Spanish. They need to read and write and speak English if they're going to
succeed in school. And they've got to succeed in school if they're going to
succeed in life. To me, if you don't deal with these issues forthrightly, you're
well on your way to creating a permanent underclass.''

Arizonans, she says, are not easily sold on simplistic solutions to the border
crisis involving little besides expenditure on law enforcement and technology.
Earl de Berge, a Phoenix pollster, offered some survey results from May that
seemed to show that a ''comprehensive'' reform had its own appeal in the state:
73 percent said it should be made possible for migrant workers to enter and
leave the country without breaking the law.

It's often argued that work-seeking Mexicans drawn to the border should instead
find the line at a consulate where they can apply for a visa, then wait their
turn. What's missing from the discussion is the realization that there basically
is no such line for the sort of semi-skilled border-crossers I repeatedly
encountered on roadsides from Tucson on south, forlornly waiting to be processed
and taken away by ICE (the unusually apposite acronym, for an agency called
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, is pronounced as one word). On State
Highway 86, a road heading west from Tucson, for instance, there were 15 who'd
just been hauled from two old Chevy Cavaliers that had their backseats removed
and blocks of wood jammed into the springs so that the back of the car would
ride unnaturally high, not betraying the weight of the human cargo inside,
covered by blankets. For the Border Patrol a high-riding old car, in which only
two passengers are visible, can be as much of a tip-off as one that sags. These
were young men who said they'd come all the way from Chiapas in southern Mexico
to find work.

Here's the data on legal immigration from Mexico: In fiscal year 2005, according
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, a division of the Department of
Homeland Security, 157,992 Mexicans were admitted to the United States on
immigration visas, less than half the number that were caught entering the
Tucson sector illegally in that same period but still about 14 percent of all
immigrants who legally entered the United States that year. Of the Mexican
total, 45 percent were immediate family members of persons who had already
qualified for legal residence; another 40 percent were more distant relatives of
legal U.S. residents, most of whom had to wait 15 years or more to have their
papers processed, paying regular fees to government agencies to keep them
pending. The remaining 15 percent were people who either got in on special visas
for highly qualified immigrants with technical training and skills deemed to be
desirable, or were among the small number officially sponsored by a prospective
employer.

The men from Chiapas lined up next to the ICE bus had no such connections.
Typical of the thousands bused back across the border every day, they may have
had relatives in the United States. But it's highly unlikely that these
relatives would have been legal residents. Therefore, if the migrants were
determined to take the jobs that were undoubtedly waiting for them in Phoenix
and points north, east and west, on construction and landscaping crews or in
hotels, slaughterhouses or poultry factories, then the trek across the desert,
scary and expensive as it was bound to be, would have been their only obvious
and realistic way in.

Russell Pearce sees them, these newcomers, when he drives through the district
he represents, which happens also to be the district where he grew up. They
shape up early each morning in the city of Mesa at the major intersections along
Broadway, an area that was the heart of the original Mormon settlement here.
Sometimes Minutemen demonstrators show up with their placards and noisily chase
them into sidestreets, hoping to embarrass the crew bosses and ordinary
householders who come by in their pickups to engage them for a day or a few
hours. Many of the migrants, it is presumed, are in transition, hoping to put
aside enough cash to finance the next stage of their journey, which will take
them to California or Illinois, Nebraska or North Carolina.

But some settle in Mesa. This is evident from the latest figures published by
the Census Bureau in its American Community Survey. In 2005, Mesa -- now the
nation's 40th biggest city -- was found to be 24 percent Hispanic, up from 19.7
percent only five years earlier. Its overall growth was 10 percent, more than
half that growth obviously Hispanic, enough to give the City Council district
around the Mormon Temple a Hispanic majority. (This could be read as a
fulfillment of a panel in the frieze that goes around the temple, a panel said
to depict ''the Hispanic people. . .leaving their old homes and coming to join
the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.'')

But there are still no Latinos on the Mesa City Council and no discernible
increase in the number of Latino voters. Kyle Jones, a Mormon in his second term
representing the district, said he would have considered stepping aside for a
highly capable Latina candidate who ran against him in the last election if he
had thought she had a chance of winning. She came in third, finishing with only
18 percent of the vote, behind not only Jones but a Minuteman running to Jones's
right and drawing votes from that portion of the community that is permanently
riled by their newer neighbors' tendency to hold big parties in front yards
instead of on more seemly rear patios, and to play loud, unfamiliar music in an
unfamiliar language. Mesa is farther from the border than Cochise County. But
since it's sometimes a destination, not a thoroughfare, resentments accumulate
just as surely.

The gap between the demography of his district and its voter profile strongly
suggests to Pearce that the new residents are virtually all illegal. In his
lexicon, that makes them ''felons.'' Overall, 7 or 8 percent of the state's
population may fall into the category of those who crossed the border without
going through any legal channel, accounting for at least one-fourth and possibly
one-third of its Hispanic residents. Russell Pearce acknowledges that children
born in this country to these migrants are entitled to citizenship under the
14th Amendment, but he thinks something should be done about that.

When Pearce puts the tax burden on Arizona citizens resulting from unauthorized
immigrations at well over $2 billion, he's rolling together the citizen and
noncitizen Spanish speakers in public schools. What's often missed in the public
debate is the fact that individual immigrant families often are neither strictly
''legal'' or ''illegal'' but an ambiguous blend. The father may have a green
card, the mother not; the older children may not be naturalized, while the
younger are deemed citizens by birth. In such households, there's an abiding
fear of doing anything that might call attention to the dubious status of some
of its members. So a child who has been an outstanding student may be
discouraged by her family from applying to college if her Social Security
number, or even that of a sibling, won't stand up to scrutiny.

I met one evening in September with five young women and their mothers,
residents of a remarkably rundown trailer park in western Mesa that looked as if
it hadn't been refurbished since the Korean War. Meaning to encourage candor, I
said I didn't need to know their last names. Lucy, a high-school senior whose
English was easy and idiomatic, completely unaccented, did much of the talking.
She already understood, she said, that the local community college would be
beyond her reach. Her father had spent thousands on lawyers without seeming to
bring the noncitizens in the family closer to legal residence. The obstacles
seemed insurmountable.

''I don't want people to think we're, like, invading,'' Lucy said. ''We're just
trying to make, like, a better life.''

The Republican races got a little crazy in the last days before the primary on
Sept 12. Len Munsil, the movement conservative battling for the nomination for
governor on the strength of his stand on family-values issues, found himself
accused, in a ''push poll'' of uncertain origins, of having fathered an
illegitimate child. This crusader for abstinence before marriage then had to
confess that he and his wife had yielded to temptation and conceived the first
of their eight children a month before their wedding. In the race for Jim
Kolbe's seat, the congressman's designated successor, Steve Huffman, was
''unendorsed'' by The Tucson Weekly, which had backed him, for refusing to talk
about a bungled undercover mission by a campaign aide caught snapping pictures
through a window of a home occupied by an opponent's former wife.

Before the results were in, two Arizonas were put on display in events held in
separate hotel ballrooms. The first was a dinner honoring Congressman Kolbe,
which brought 600 persons connected to Tucson's business, political and cultural
elites together in the ballroom of a resort in the foothills of the Catalina
Mountains. These were people who prided themselves in their ability to work
across party lines. The Democratic governor was there to lead the celebration,
which included videotaped tributes by Condoleezza Rice, Bono and John McCain on
big screens and a cycle of love songs rendered by a soprano, winding up with
''Our Love Is Here to Stay,'' which she sang sitting knee to knee with the
honoree. Kolbe seemed swept away but managed a response in which he bemoaned the
rise of extreme partisanship in Congress and the decline of the art of
compromise. He then thanked supporters, friends and relatives, ending with his
partner, a Panamanian national, who half-rose from his seat next to Janet
Napolitano to receive a round of applause that did not sound perfunctory.

The mood was decidedly more righteous and embattled in the smaller, second
ballroom in a south Tucson hotel, where fewer than 200 of Randy Graf's
supporters gathered on primary night for what they hoped would be a victory
party. Testing the ability of the party to come together, I asked one of Graf's
supporters whether he'd be able to back Huffman if his man lost. ''I'd vote for
any derelict off the street before I voted for him,'' the man said. An hour
later the crowd was shouting: ''Randy! Randy! Randy!'' as their candidate
claimed victory.

But there wasn't much evidence in the results of a groundswell of fresh anger
over border issues strong enough to determine the outcome of the races in
November. Don Goldwater, the one-issue candidate Graf and Russell Pearce had
backed, was easily beaten by Len Munsil, who waited till the last days of the
campaign to broaden his base by running a TV ad in which John McCain, the
nemesis of anti-migrant diehards, called him ''a man we can trust.''

Even Graf's victory raised questions about his prospects, for his percentage of
the vote was no greater than what he drew two years earlier. If the result was
to be read as a referendum on immigration reform, it was hard to miss the fact
that the combined vote for two runner-up candidates who supported a new
guest-worker program -- the Kolbe position all these years -- amounted to
slightly more than 50 percent among Eighth District Republicans. A portion of
those voters were now likely to be tempted to defect to the Democratic nominee,
Gabrielle Giffords, a vivacious former state senator, just 36 years old, who
lines up with McCain and Napolitano to support a ''viable guest-worker program
that meets the needs of Arizona's economy.'' Of course she's also for ''improved
border security,'' more Border Patrol agents, more technology in the form of
radar, sensors and drones. Arizona, she says, has paid a heavy price for
Republican failures on the border. Like the governor, she aims to show that the
immigration issue underscores the need for change in Washington; in other words,
that the abiding anxiety about the border and illegal aliens can be made to work
for Democrats. It may come as a surprise to tacticians in the Republican House
caucus, but no candidate in red-state Arizona or anywhere else is calling for
less border security.

Having battled his way to the nomination on the issue, Randy Graf's best shot
now is to portray Gabrielle Giffords as a coddler of illegals, ''an extreme
liberal'' (as she is described in a negative TV ad put up by the Minutemen) who
yearns to hand out Social Security benefits to illegal aliens. (The ad even
shows a check made out to ''Illegal Alien.'') Anything can happen in a campaign,
but the first poll showed Giffords, the Democrat, with a commanding lead. Of
course it's also possible that the Republicans will make little headway on the
immigration issue in Arizona, or beyond, but still retain control of the House.
In that case, the ''majority of the majority'' would be likely to continue to
bar any vote on a version of the reform that passed the Senate. They'd do so out
of an instinct not to cede power to moderates in their own ranks.

Randy Graf seemed to define the breach in the Republican Party when I asked him
whether he'd seek Senator McCain's support. ''I look forward to talking to John
McCain,'' he said. ''It will give me a good opportunity to talk about
immigration with him.'' McCain had meant to withhold his endorsement from Graf
but reversed himself for the sake of a Republican majority in the House and his
own relations with his party in his home state. His endorsement was silent on
Graf's anti-immigrant stand. And in fact, the senator had no plans to meet the
candidate.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sept. 19, 4 a.m.: Two towns called Nogales, one in Arizona
(foreground) and one in Mexico.
Sept. 22 , 5 a.m.: The border near Naco, Ariz., under the watchful glare of
security lights.
 Office Supplies: The U.S. Border Patrol station in Tucson. The average number
of arrests along Arizona's 376-mile border is 1,400 per day. (Photographs by
Simon Norfolk/NB Pictures, For The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 3, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Medicaid Wants Citizenship Proof For Infant Care

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2


Under a new federal policy, children born in the United States to illegal
immigrants with low incomes will no longer be automatically entitled to health
insurance through Medicaid, Bush administration officials said Thursday.

Doctors and hospitals said the policy change would make it more difficult for
such infants, who are United States citizens, to obtain health care needed in
the first year of life.

Illegal immigrants are generally barred from Medicaid but can get coverage for
treatment of emergency medical conditions, including labor and delivery.

In the past, once a woman received emergency care under Medicaid for the birth
of a baby, the child was deemed eligible for coverage as well, and states had to
cover the children for one year from the date of birth.

Under the new policy, an application must be filed for the child, and the
parents must provide documents to prove the child's citizenship.

The documentation requirements took effect in July, but some states have been
slow to enforce them, and many doctors are only now becoming aware of the
effects on newborns.

Obtaining a birth certificate can take weeks in some states, doctors said.
Moreover, they said, illegal immigrant parents may be reluctant to go to a state
welfare office to file applications because they fear contact with government
agencies that could report their presence to immigration authorities.

Administration officials said the change was necessary under their reading of a
new law, the Deficit Reduction Act, signed by President Bush in February. The
law did not mention newborns, but generally tightened documentation requirements
because some lawmakers were concerned that immigrants were fraudulently claiming
United States citizenship to get Medicaid.

Marilyn E. Wilson, a spokeswoman for the Tennessee Medicaid program, said: ''The
federal government told us we have no latitude. All states must change their
policies and practices. We will not be able to cover any services for the
newborn until a Medicaid application is filed. That could be days, weeks or
months after the child is born.''

About four million babies are born in the United States each year, and Medicaid
pays for more than one-third of all births. The number involving illegal
immigrant parents is unknown but is likely to be in the tens of thousands,
health experts said.

Doctors and hospitals denounced the policy change and denied that it was
required by the new law. Dr. Jay E. Berkelhamer, president of the American
Academy of Pediatrics, said the policy ''punishes babies who, according to the
Constitution, are citizens because they were born here.''

Dr. Martin C. Michaels, a pediatrician in Dalton, Ga., said that continuous
coverage in the first year of life was important because ''newborns need care
right from the start.''

''Some Americans may want to grant amnesty to undocumented immigrants, and
others may want to send them home,'' Dr. Michaels said. ''But the children who
are born here had no say in that debate.''

Under a 1984 law, infants born to pregnant women on Medicaid are in most cases
deemed eligible for Medicaid for one year.

In an interview on Thursday, Leslie V. Norwalk, acting administrator of the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said the new policy ''reflects what
the new law says in terms of eligibility.''

''When emergency Medicaid pays for a birth,'' Ms. Norwalk said, ''the child is
not automatically deemed eligible. But the child could apply and could qualify
for Medicaid because of the family's poverty status. If anyone knows about a
child being denied care, we want to know about it. Please step up and tell us.''

Under federal law, hospitals generally have to examine and treat patients who
need emergency care, regardless of their ability to pay. So the new policy is
most likely to affect access to other types of care, including preventive
services and treatment for infections and chronic conditions, doctors said.

Representative Charlie Norwood, Republican of Georgia, was a principal architect
of the new law.

''Charlie's intent was that every person receiving Medicaid needs to provide
documentation,'' said John E. Stone, a spokesman for Mr. Norwood, who is a
dentist and has been active on health care issues. ''With newborns, there should
be no problem. All you have to do is provide a birth certificate or hospital
records verifying birth.''

But Dr. Berkelhamer disagreed. Even when the children are eligible for Medicaid,
he said, illegal immigrants may be afraid to apply because of ''the threat of
deportation.''

The new policy ''will cost the health care system more in the long run,'' Dr.
Berkelhamer added, because children of illegal immigrants may go without
immunizations, preventive care and treatments needed in the first year of life.

Doctors, children's hospitals and advocacy groups have been urging states to
preserve the old policy on Medicaid eligibility for children born to illegal
immigrants.

Sara Rosenbaum, a professor of health law at George Washington University, said:
''The new policy reflects a tortured reading of the new law and is contrary to
the language of the 1984 statute, which Congress did not change. The whole
purpose of the earlier law, passed with bipartisan support, was to make sure
that a baby would not have a single day's break in coverage from the date of
birth through the first year of life.''

California has objected to the new policy. S. Kimberly Belshe, secretary of the
California Health and Human Services Agency, said: ''By virtue of being born in
the United States, a child is a U.S. citizen. What more proof does the federal
government need?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 11, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Crackdown on Newborns

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 453 words


A new crackdown on Medicaid fraud is forcing states to follow the letter of the
law to a harsh and dismal place. Under orders from the Bush administration, they
are erecting unnecessary paperwork obstacles that could deny medical care to
poor newborns in the crucial first weeks and months of life.

This development is a side effect of the nation's sour immigration debate. Since
July, federal law has required that Medicaid recipients prove citizenship with
passports, birth certificates or other documents. The goal is to prevent ''theft
of Medicaid benefits by illegal aliens,'' according to the legislation's main
sponsor, Representative Charlie Norwood, a Georgia Republican who has worked
tirelessly to make life in the United States as difficult as possible for people
who lack papers.

Illegal immigrants have no right to Medicaid, except in emergencies, which
includes labor and childbirth. Perinatal care given to illegal immigrant women
has routinely been extended for a year to their newborns, too, on the simple
assumption that they need it and are automatically entitled to it, if they were
born here. (The 14th Amendment grants citizenship to ''all persons born or
naturalized in the United States.'')

But now, in a pointless exercise of bureaucratic obstinacy, these children will
have to prove what is already self-evident. They must receive a birth
certificate and have a Medicaid application approved before receiving a doctor's
care. This could take days, weeks or months -- a critical time for newborns, who
receive a barrage of immunizations and well-baby checkups in the first year.
Some babies may get no care at all, if their noncitizen parents, fearing arrest
and deportation, decide not to seek it.

That the children of illegal immigrants can be blessed with citizenship by
accident of birth sticks in the craws of many immigration hard-liners. They
include members of Congress who have voted to challenge the Constitution's
citizenship clause, saying they want to stop women from sneaking over the border
to have babies.

No doubt many pregnant women and new mothers are among the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants in this country. But to demonize them all -- and to punish
their babies -- is to take the immigration debate into depths of cruelty and
paranoia.

Medicaid rules should be enforced in a way that is strict but fair and sensible.
Turning more illegal immigrants away from the health care system may bolster
short-term budgets and satisfy a thirst for righteousness. But if building new
barriers to basic care ends up filling emergency rooms with ever-sicker
immigrants -- and their citizen children -- then the effort will have been a
sorry example of self-defeating spite.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Signs of Hope on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 552 words


The political earthquake in Washington has knocked loose some of the big
obstacles to fixing the immigration system. A decent solution is now there for
the taking, if President Bush and the newly Democratic Congress are willing to
grab it.

It won't be easy. Some of the debate's loudest shouters, liars and dead-horse
beaters were ushered by voters from the room -- people like J. D. Hayworth and
Randy Graf in Arizona, John Hostettler in Indiana and Rick Santorum in
Pennsylvania. But the public is still in a prickly mood. All those shrill
Republican ads about Mexicans stealing your Social Security failed as an
electoral strategy, but that doesn't mean politicians always lose by being
immigration hawks. Voters approved tough ballot measures. In Arizona, they made
English the official language and restricted illegal immigrants' ability to sue,
receive bail and qualify for benefits.

And except for the losers on the border-fixated fringe, not many in the
restrictionist camp seem particularly chastened by the election. Senator Jon Kyl
of Arizona, an opponent of the comprehensive reform bill that passed the Senate
this year, won his race, as did several new Democrats who ran as immigration
hard-liners. Local lawmakers in Texas and other states are still going after
illegal immigrants with fervor.

The roots of a divisive, grinding immigration debate have not gone away. But it
is crucial that the Democrats find their voice. The effort to revive immigration
reform should start in the Senate. There is a decent bill under the barnacled
hulk of legislation that passed the Senate last May. It used to be called
McCain-Kennedy, before other senators tacked on tough-posing amendments that
made it fundamentally unworkable and unjust. The Senate should strip those away,
like the ones that divide immigrants into three arbitrary tiers of worthiness
and needlessly force those seeking legal status to trek to a border state to
apply for it.

The principles that guided the original McCain-Kennedy bill are those that
should guide the coming reform effort: laws should be enforced at the border and
workplace, fairly and evenhandedly; temporary worker programs must not be used
to create a permanent official underclass; and any reform must be designed to
work and not just create another smothering bureaucracy.

Immigration remains a high-voltage issue that Congress may be too timid or
distracted to touch. The new Democratic leaders, including Speaker-elect Nancy
Pelosi, have conspicuously not listed immigration among their most urgent
priorities. Even Senator John McCain, who is an architect of the most reasonable
bill out there but also has presidential primaries on his mind, spent a lot of
time this fall stumping for misguided restrictionists like Mr. Graf. We hope he
and his moderate colleagues have the integrity to honor their sensible
immigration views now that the dismal '06 campaign is done.

Many voters who scorned Republicans over immigration reacted as you would expect
them to after being mocked and exploited by a party that elevated the issue into
an urgent crisis and then offered nothing to solve it but faux hearings,
strident campaign ads and a pretend fence. The same fate may await any Democrats
who posture, deceive and dawdle over immigration reform in the next Congress.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Are America

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1159 words


Almost a year ago, hundreds of thousands of immigrant workers and their families
slipped out from the shadows of American life and walked boldly in daylight
through Los Angeles, Washington, Chicago, New York and other cities. ''We Are
America,'' their banners cried. The crowds, determined but peaceful, swelled
into an immense sea. The nation was momentarily stunned.

A lot has happened since then. The country has summoned great energy to confront
the immigration problem, but most of it has been misplaced, crudely and unevenly
applied. It seeks not to solve the conundrum of a broken immigration system, but
to subdue, in a million ways, the vulnerable men and women who are part of it.
Government at all levels is working to keep unwanted immigrants in their place
-- on the other side of the border, in detention or in fear, toiling silently in
the underground economy without recourse to the laws and protections the
native-born expect.

The overwhelming impulse has been to get tough, and tough we have gotten:

Border enforcement. What little the last Congress did about immigration was
focused on appeasing hard-line conservatives by appearing to seal the border.
President Bush's new budget continues that approach, seeking 3,000 more Border
Patrol officers and another $1 billion for a 700-mile fence, adding to the
billions spent to militarize the border since the 1990s. That still isn't enough
to build the fence and it hasn't controlled the illegal flow; you need more
visas and better workplace enforcement to do that. It has directed much traffic
into the remote Southwest desert, making more immigrants vulnerable to smugglers
and leaving many people dead.

Federal raids. In December federal agents stormed a half-dozen Swift meatpacking
plants, rounding up hundreds of suspected illegal immigrants and exposing the
secret that is no secret: America's dirtiest, hardest jobs are done by people
too desperate to shun them and too afraid to complain. The raids have been
replicated in other states and industries, on day-labor street corners and in
homes from Connecticut to California. In immigrant communities, the undercurrent
of fear has been replaced by terror, and employers are jittery, too. The
immigration agency says it singles out only fugitives in Operation Return to
Sender, but the sweeps are broad and panic is indiscriminate.

Local crackdowns. State, county and local officials have picked up where they
left off last year, introducing bills to get tough on illegal immigrants. They
cannot control federal policy, so they try other ways to punish those they see
as unfit neighbors, to stifle their opportunities, extract money, expose them to
legal jeopardy and otherwise inflict suffering, in the deluded hope that piling
on miseries will make them disappear. In suburban Long Island, where resentment
over an influx of day laborers has festered under a hapless and intolerant
county government, lawmakers are considering banning workers from county
roadsides. Texas legislators are mulling a bill to reject the 14th Amendment and
deny the benefits of citizenship to children born in this country to
undocumented parents. Local officials all over are trying to deputize police
officers as immigration agents, causing overburdened police forces and
prosecutors to bristle. Some bills are symbolic, most are simply spiteful, and
their effect is a chaotic patchwork, not a sane national policy.

Gutted due process. Laws enacted a decade ago and tightened after 9/11 distance
even legal immigrants from the protection of the law. Immigrants are routinely
detained without bond, denied access to lawyers, deported without appeal and
punished for one-time or minor infractions with a mechanistic ferocity that
precludes a judge's discretion or mercy. Several of the immigration bills that
Congress has considered seek to heighten the efficiency with which immigrants
who run afoul of the authorities can be railroaded out of the country. This gums
up another aspect of the legal system, which deals with refugees and asylum
seekers. A much tighter web for immigrants has been erected, and it catches many
blameless victims.

The web of suspicion. The Justice Department wants to expand routine DNA
collection to include detained illegal immigrants, creating a vast new database
that will sweep up hundreds of thousands of innocent people. DNA, far more than
fingerprints, is a trove of deeply personal information. Its routine collection
from law-abiding citizens is considered an outrageous violation of privacy
rights. In the belief that illegal immigrants lack such rights, DNA swabs and
blood would be collected even if a detainee is not suspected of a crime. This
reinforces the notion that immigrants should be treated as one huge class of
criminal suspects.

The bureaucratic trap. The federal bureaucracy, notorious for backlogs and bad
service, wants to charge more to immigrants who want to become Americans -- an
average increase of 66 percent in the price of visas and citizenship papers.
Such steep and arbitrary increases would create a means test for citizenship, an
affront to our national values.

The rise of hate. The Anti-Defamation League, acutely sensitive to the presence
of intolerance, has detected an increase in Ku Klux Klan activity around the
country, much of it focused on hatred of new immigrants. This virus in the
bloodstream usually erupts amid national ferment and fear, and according to a
report available at www.adl.org, hate groups like the Klan have moved quickly to
exploit the simmering debate over immigration.

Hopelessly fixated on toughness, the immigration debate has lost its balance,
overlooking the humanity of the immigrant. There is a starkly diminished
understanding that hospitality for the stranger is part of the American ethos,
and that as much as we claim to be a nation of immigrants, we have thwarted them
at every turn. We must do better.

The new year began with renewed optimism for the chances of sensible immigration
reform in Washington. The hope is justified, but time is short and real change
will still require boldness and courage. Citizenship must be the key to reform.
The idea of an earned path to citizenship for illegal immigrants was missing
from President Bush's State of the Union address this year, though he has
continued to say his usual favorable words about reform. The new Democratic
Congress and moderate Republicans cannot be afraid to stand up to the
anti-amnesty demagogues and lead Mr. Bush to a solution.

Enforcement of laws cannot be ignored. Punish immigrants who enter illegally,
make them pay back taxes and fines, restrict their ability to get work through
deceit and false identities. But open a path to their full inclusion in the life
of this country.

The alternative -- the path of immigrant exploitation, of harassment without
hope -- will only repeat the ways the country has shamed itself at countless
points in its history.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 12, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

LACKING PAPERS, CITIZENS ARE CUT FROM MEDICAID

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11


A new federal rule intended to keep illegal immigrants from receiving Medicaid
has instead shut out tens of thousands of United States citizens who have had
difficulty complying with requirements to show birth certificates and other
documents proving their citizenship, state officials say.

Florida, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Ohio and Virginia have all
reported declines in enrollment and traced them to the new federal requirement,
which comes just as state officials around the country are striving to expand
coverage through Medicaid and other means.

Under a 2006 federal law, the Deficit Reduction Act, most people who say they
are United States citizens and want Medicaid must provide ''satisfactory
documentary evidence of citizenship,'' which could include a passport or the
combination of a birth certificate and a driver's license.

Some state officials say the Bush administration went beyond the law in some
ways, for example, by requiring people to submit original documents or copies
certified by the issuing agency.

''The largest adverse effect of this policy has been on people who are American
citizens,'' said Kevin W. Concannon, director of the Department of Human
Services in Iowa, where the number of Medicaid recipients dropped by 5,700 in
the second half of 2006, to 92,880, after rising for five years. ''We have not
turned up many undocumented immigrants receiving Medicaid in Waterloo, Dubuque
or anywhere else in Iowa,'' Mr. Concannon said.

Jeff Nelligan, a spokesman for the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, said the new rule was ''intended to ensure that Medicaid beneficiaries
are citizens without imposing undue burdens on them'' or on states. ''We are not
aware of any data that shows there are significant barriers to enrollment,'' he
said. ''But if states are experiencing difficulties, they should bring them to
our attention.''

In Florida, the number of children on Medicaid declined by 63,000, to 1.2
million, from July 2006 to January of this year.

''We've seen an increase in the number of people who don't qualify for Medicaid
because they cannot produce proof of citizenship,'' said Albert A. Zimmerman, a
spokesman for the Florida Department of Children and Families. ''Nearly all of
these people are American citizens.''

Since Ohio began enforcing the document requirement in September, the number of
children and parents on Medicaid has declined by 39,000, to 1.3 million, and
state officials attribute most of the decline to the new requirement. Jon Allen,
a spokesman for the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, said the state
had not seen a drop of that magnitude in 10 years.

The numbers alone do not prove that the decline in enrollment was caused by the
new federal policy. But state officials see a cause-and-effect relationship.
They say the decline began soon after they started enforcing the new rule.
Moreover, they say, they have not seen a decline in enrollment among people who
are exempt from the documentation requirement -- for example, people who have
qualified for Medicare and are also eligible for Medicaid.

Wisconsin keeps detailed records listing reasons for the denial or termination
of benefits. ''From August 2006 to February of this year, we terminated benefits
for an average of 868 people a month for failure to document citizenship or
identity,'' said James D. Jones, the eligibility director of the Medicaid
program in Wisconsin. ''More than 600 of those actions were for failure to prove
identity.'' In the same period, Mr. Jones said, the state denied an average of
1,758 applications a month for failure to document citizenship or identity. In
1,100 of those cases, applicants did not provide acceptable proof of identity.

''Congress wanted to crack down on illegal immigrants who got Medicaid benefits
by pretending to be U.S. citizens,'' Mr. Jones said. ''But the law is hurting
U.S. citizens, throwing up roadblocks to people who need care, at a time when we
in Wisconsin are trying to increase access to health care.''

Medicaid officials across the country report that some pregnant women are going
without prenatal care and some parents are postponing checkups for their
children while they hunt down birth certificates and other documents.

Rhiannon M. Noth, 28, of Cincinnati applied for Medicaid in early December. When
her 3-year-old son, Landen, had heart surgery on Feb. 22, she said, ''he did not
have any insurance'' because she had been unable to obtain the necessary
documents. For the same reason, she said, she paid out of pocket for his
medications, and eye surgery was delayed for her 2-year-old daughter, Adrianna.

The children eventually got Medicaid, but the process took 78 days, rather than
the 30 specified in Ohio Medicaid rules.

Dr. Martin C. Michaels, a pediatrician in Dalton, Ga., who has been monitoring
effects of the federal rule, said: ''Georgia now has 100,000 newly uninsured
U.S. citizen children of low-income families. Many of these children have missed
immunizations and preventive health visits. And they have been admitted to
hospitals and intensive care units for conditions that normally would have been
treated in a doctor's office.''

Dr. Michaels, who is president of the Georgia chapter of the American Academy of
Pediatrics, said that some children with asthma had lost their Medicaid coverage
and could not afford the medications they had been taking daily to prevent
wheezing. ''Some of these children had asthma attacks and had to be admitted to
hospitals,'' he said.

In Kansas, R. Andrew Allison, the state Medicaid director, said: ''The federal
requirement has had a tremendous impact. Many kids have lost coverage or have
not been able to obtain coverage.'' Since the new rule took effect in July,
enrollment in Kansas has declined by 20,000 people, to 245,000, and
three-fourths of the people dropped from the rolls were children.

Megan J. Ingmire, a spokeswoman for the Kansas Health Policy Authority, which
runs the state Medicaid program, said the waiting time for applicants had
increased because of a ''huge backlog'' of applications. ''Applicants need more
time to collect the necessary documents, and it takes us longer to review the
applications,'' Ms. Ingmire said.

The principal authors of the 2006 law were Representatives Charlie Norwood and
Nathan Deal, both Georgia Republicans. Mr. Norwood died last month.

Chris Riley, the chief of staff for Mr. Deal, said the new requirement did
encounter ''some bumps in the road'' last year. But, he said, Mr. Deal believes
that the requirement ''has saved taxpayers money.'' The congressman ''will
vigorously fight repeal of that provision'' and will, in fact, try to extend it
to the Children's Health Insurance Program, Mr. Riley said. He added that the
rule could be applied flexibly so it did not cause hardship for citizens.

In general, Medicaid is available only to United States citizens and certain
''qualified aliens.'' Until 2006, states had some discretion in deciding how to
verify citizenship. Applicants had to declare in writing, under penalty of
perjury, whether they were citizens. Most states required documents, like birth
certificates, only if other evidence suggested that a person was falsely
claiming to be a United States citizen.

In Virginia, health insurance for children has been a top priority for state
officials, and the number of children on Medicaid increased steadily for several
years. But since July, the number has declined by 13,300, to 373,800, according
to Cindi B. Jones, chief deputy director of the Virginia Medicaid program.

''The federal rule closed the door on our ability to enroll people over the
telephone and the Internet, wiping out a full year of progress in covering
kids,'' Ms. Jones said.

State and local agencies have adopted new procedures to handle and copy valuable
documents. J. Ruth Kennedy, deputy director of the Medicaid program in
Louisiana, said her agency had received hundreds of original driver's licenses
and passports in the mail.

Barry E. Nangle, the state registrar of vital statistics in Utah, said, ''The
new federal requirement has created a big demand for birth certificates by a
group of people who are not exactly well placed to pay our fees.'' States
typically charge $10 to $30 for a certificate.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rhiannon M. Noth was denied Medicaid for heart surgery for her
son Landen, 3, right, because she could not obtain the necessary documents.
(Photo by Tom Uhlman for The New York Times)(pg. A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigrants: 2 Sides of the Story

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 210 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Immigration Misery'' (editorial, March 15):

What we are seeing around the country is a replay of ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' by
John Steinbeck.

All around the country we are treating illegal immigrants as badly as the Okies
were treated in California in the 1930s. Driven by poverty and lack of work in
Mexico and farther south, people are coming north to work in jobs that are
available.

What does a national boundary mean if your children are starving? The hardships
these people endure while coming here is further evidence of their plight.

Where is our human decency? We can do something to help those who are here, and
we could work with Mexico to help relieve its poverty. All we lack is the will.
Gerald Bakker Grand Haven, Mich., March 15, 2007To the Editor:

I am astonished that you are faulting the federal government for enforcing the
law.

One fact that is often lost in the immigration debate is that illegal immigrants
are breaking the law by living and working in this country. Any misery that
results is their own responsibility.

By all means, we should urge Congress to move quickly to improve the laws
governing immigration. In the meantime, existing law must be enforced. Michael
W. LongArlington, Mass., March 15, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Offer Care to Infants of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20


In a reversal, the Bush administration said Tuesday that babies born in the
United States to illegal immigrants with low incomes could automatically qualify
for one year of Medicaid coverage, just as babies born to United States citizens
did.

Federal officials dropped their insistence that illegal immigrants document the
citizenship of the newborns. State officials, hospitals and pediatricians had
said the requirement made no sense because, under the 14th Amendment to the
Constitution, people born in this country are United States citizens.

The change came just 15 days after the State of Washington challenged the policy
in a lawsuit. Gov. Chris Gregoire of Washington welcomed the change.

''The Constitution could not be more clear,'' Ms. Gregoire said. ''Babies born
in the United States are citizens, regardless of who their parents are.''

Ms. Gregoire said the original policy, adopted last July, would have delayed
care for 8,000 ''infant citizens'' of her state. Washington State had argued
that the federal policy denied ''equal protection of the laws'' to citizen
children of illegal immigrants.

Leslie V. Norwalk, acting administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, said: ''We have heard the concerns and are taking action to
ensure that newborns in similar circumstances are treated the same under
Medicaid eligibility rules. We intend to modify the documentation requirements
to put all babies born in the United States whose deliveries are covered by
Medicaid on an equal footing.''

Illegal immigrants are generally barred from Medicaid, but can get coverage for
treatment of emergency medical conditions, including labor and delivery.

The policy change affects only infants. Adults and children over the age of 1
will still be subject to documentation requirements established by a 2006 law.
To obtain or keep Medicaid, they must present birth certificates, passports or
other documents proving citizenship and identity.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who had introduced a bill to
overturn the administration policy, said Tuesday that the reversal was ''a
positive step.''

Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, said: ''I'm glad the
administration has taken this small step to fix a problem that it created. But
we have a long way to go before the larger issue of citizenship documentation is
resolved.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Ties Drop in Illegal Immigration to His Policies

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 933 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz., April 9


President Bush said Monday that tougher enforcement and a new fence at the
Mexican border had sharply reduced the influx of illegal immigrants, and he
pressed Congress to pass a sweeping revision of the nation's immigration laws.

''It's amazing progress that's been made,'' Mr. Bush said on a return visit to a
section of the border that he inspected 11 months ago.

In the last six months, the White House said, Border Patrol reports showed that
apprehensions of illegal immigrants along the Mexican border fell by 30 percent,
to 418,184, from 594,142 in the comparable period a year earlier. In the Yuma
sector, which spans parts of Arizona and California, apprehensions fell by 68
percent, to 25,217, from 79,131 in the comparable period a year earlier.

There are now 13,000 Border Patrol agents, up from 9,000 a year earlier. The
number will reach 18,000 by the end of next year, Mr. Bush said.

The White House interprets the decline in apprehensions as a sign that the
tighter security is working.

''When you're apprehending fewer people, it means fewer are trying to come
across,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And fewer are trying to come across because we're
deterring people from attempting illegal border crossings in the first place.''

While Border Patrol commanders have expressed cautious optimism that a corner is
being turned, immigration experts note that apprehension figures swing
erratically over the years. The numbers can be driven by a variety of factors
aside from enforcement, including weather, Latin American economics and
decisions by illegal immigrants to make fewer trips back and forth between the
United States and Mexico.

At the dedication of a new Border Patrol station here, Mr. Bush said he hoped to
strike a deal with Congress on immigration this year. Along with border control,
he said, the essential elements of any bill are a temporary-worker program, a
crackdown on employers of illegal immigrants and a procedure that would allow
some illegal immigrants to legalize their status.

The politics of immigration have shifted noticeably since the Senate passed a
bipartisan bill by a vote of 62 to 36 last May. When Democrats took control of
Congress three months ago, many people predicted that it would be easier to pass
a comprehensive bill with the major ingredients sought by Mr. Bush.

But the outlook is now uncertain. Republicans and some moderate Democrats in
Congress say they could not vote for any measure granting legal status to
illegal immigrants.

Presidential politics appear to have pushed Republicans, including Senator John
McCain of Arizona, to the right. Some conservatives, who are influential in
selecting a Republican presidential nominee, say that illegal immigrants have
taken jobs from Americans and should not be rewarded for their illegal behavior.

Speaking to dozens of Border Patrol agents, gathered here under a bright sun,
Mr. Bush said: ''We've got to resolve the status of millions of illegal
immigrants already in the country. People who entered the country illegally
should not be given amnesty. Amnesty is the forgiveness of an offense without
penalty. I oppose amnesty, and I think most people in the United States Congress
oppose amnesty.''

Mr. Bush, a former governor of Texas, said he was ''working closely with
Republicans and Democrats to find a practical answer that lies between granting
automatic citizenship to every illegal immigrant and deporting every illegal
immigrant.''

Under his proposal, Mr. Bush said, ''illegal immigrants who have roots in our
country and want to stay'' could do so in some circumstances, if they paid fines
and back taxes, learned English and showed they had worked here for a number of
years.

Illegal immigrants could apply for citizenship. ''Approval would not be
automatic,'' Mr. Bush said. ''They would have to wait in line behind those who
played by the rules and followed the law.''

Stephen W. Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at the Cornell Law School,
said if illegal immigrants had to wait their turn in this way, it might ''take
decades'' for them to become citizens.

Administration officials estimate that 12 million illegal immigrants are in the
United States and say the number has been growing by an average of 400,000 a
year.

A White House draft proposal, circulated on Capitol Hill in the last two weeks,
has angered many advocates of immigrants' rights, who assert that it would
require illegal immigrants to pay exorbitant fines and fees. The draft says the
Bush administration would ''bring illegal workers out of the shadows'' by
offering them a new type of document known as Z visas. These visas would last
three years and would be ''indefinitely renewable,'' but would cost $3,500 each
time.

The White House proposal would not establish a ''special path to citizenship.''
An illegal immigrant would have to return to his original country, file an
application with a United States embassy or consulate and pay a fine -- perhaps
$10,000 -- to become a lawful permanent resident.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a co-author of the
immigration bill passed by the Senate last year, said no measure would be
approved this year unless it had ''strong Republican support.'' Democrats said
they were counting on the White House to deliver at least 25 Republican votes
for the bill in the Senate and 70 in the House.

In response, Mr. Bush said Monday, ''I've been working to bring Republicans and
Democrats together to resolve outstanding issues so that Congress can pass a
comprehensive bill and I can sign it into law this year.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''When you're apprehending fewer people, it means fewer are
trying to come across,'' President Bush said yesterday in Yuma, Ariz. (Photo by
Jim Watson/Agence-France Presse -- Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wire-Transfer Crackdown By Arizona Is Challenged

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Libby Sander contributed reporting from Chicago.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 618 words


In a campaign to choke off smugglers' finances, the Arizona attorney general in
recent years has periodically seized money wired in large amounts from people
outside Arizona, and even some money sent from other states to Mexico.

The authorities have amassed $17 million in four years from suspect transfers,
singling out those exceeding $500 and believed to be sent as payments to
smugglers who have just transported people or drugs into Arizona, the busiest
illegal crossing area on the border.

But the effort has come under legal attack, first from Western Union, which
handles most of the transactions, and now through a federal lawsuit filed
yesterday in Phoenix by three legal immigrants and an immigrant advocacy group
representing the immigrants. They say their transactions are legal and have been
caught up in the campaign of the attorney general, Terry Goddard.

''They just decided it was a lot easier to sweep everybody on in and make people
prove their innocence,'' Matthew J. Piers, a lawyer representing the plaintiffs,
said at a news conference in Chicago, where the advocacy group is based. ''In
this country, we do it the other way around.''

Smugglers take immigrants into Arizona, call a ''sponsor'' -- usually a relative
or friend of the person smuggled -- who then wires payment for the trip across
the border. Mr. Goddard said that over the last year suspect transactions into
Arizona dropped sharply but increased by about the same amount in Sonora, an
indication that smugglers had shifted to picking up the money there.

He said Arizona could seize those transactions because they originated with a
phone call by the smuggler in Arizona.

Mr. Piers and the advocacy group, the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights, said the three people filing suit were legal immigrants who had
wired money for legitimate purposes but who for plausible reasons could not
satisfy demands for information on the transfers.

One plaintiff, Javier Torres of Burbank, Ill., said he had resold a car he had
just bought and transferred ownership documents before law enforcement officers
demanded them as proof that his wire transfer was legitimate.

The two other defendants -- a woman from North Carolina and a woman from
California -- had wired money to relatives in Arizona and Mexico, and said they
could not meet officers' demands to speak with the recipients of the transfers
because the relatives did not have telephones and the women had lost track of
them.

Joshua Hoyt, executive director of the Illinois group, said it was investigating
other cases, including some referred by Western Union.

The company, calling Mr. Goddard's tactics an unconstitutional overreach of his
authority, won a court order in September halting the latest round of seizures.
A hearing is scheduled for Oct. 30.

Western Union, the biggest wire-transfer company, sued to block warrants Mr.
Goddard obtained involving transfers to the Mexican state of Sonora, which
borders Arizona. Investigators say Sonora has emerged in the past year as the
primary destination of the transfers.

Mr. Goddard said in an interview that he had not yet seen the complaint that was
filed yesterday, but he defended his tactics as legal and productive, saying
they had disrupted smuggler networks.

''All actions we have taken have been approved by courts from the get-go,'' said
Mr. Goddard, a Democrat currently seeking re-election.

The authorities have refunded seizures in 10 percent to 15 percent of the cases
after recipients spoke with law enforcement officers. Mr. Goddard said that he
offered last week to check into any misguided seizures the Illinois group found
but that it had not provided such information.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Flow of Immigrants' Money To Latin America Surges

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 713 words


There is a common cycle to immigration from Latin America. Immigrants arrive in
the United States and quickly find work. Several months later -- in the case of
illegal migrants, as soon as they have finished paying off the smuggler who
brought them across the border -- they start sending money home.

According to a new report about immigrants' money transfers to Latin America,
the remittances flow from almost every state. Even in states that had virtually
no Latin American immigrants only a few years ago, like Mississippi and
Pennsylvania, a growing trickle of money is making its way south to places like
Tlalchapa, Mexico, or Panajachel, in the Guatemalan highlands.

''Twenty years ago the money was coming from four or five states; now it's
coming from every corner of the country,'' said Sergio Bendixen, a Miami
pollster who surveyed some 2,500 immigrants, legal and illegal, for the survey
on which the report was based.

For the nation as a whole, the flow of money has become a torrent. According to
the study, sponsored by the Multilateral Investment Fund of the 47-nation
Inter-American Development Bank, remittances from the United States to Latin
America this year will total more than $45 billion. That is 51 percent higher
than they were only two years ago.

About three-quarters of Latino immigrants who were surveyed send money home
regularly, up from some 60 percent in a similar survey in 2004. This may largely
reflect growth in the population of illegal immigrants, who tend to send money
home more often than others. They accounted for about 40 percent of remitters in
the survey, up from a third in 2004.

Moreover, with immigration to the United States a regular part of the life cycle
for large numbers of men and women in many parts of Latin America, sending money
back to relatives at home has developed into a moral obligation.

''If you don't send money to your mother, you are a bad son,'' Mr. Bendixen
said. ''Remittances companies say this in their TV ads.''

The study's estimates on remittances are in line with population figures from
the Census Bureau, which found last year that Latin American immigrants made up
6.6 percent of the nation's household population (that is, excluding people in
jail, on military bases and such), more than half the total immigrant
population.

The bureau also found that 1.2 percent of the household population of
Pennsylvania was born in Latin America, as were 0.7 percent of the population of
Ohio and 2 percent of the population of Indiana. These were states with
virtually no Latino immigrants five years ago.

According to the data from the Inter-American Development Bank, money transfers
from Indiana should approach $400 million this year, with the total from
Pennsylvania above $500 million and from Ohio more than $214 million.

Indeed, the study found Latino immigrants sending money from 48 of the 50 states
-- excluding only Montana and West Virginia, where, Mr. Bendixen said, he did
not survey because he expected very few remitters.

In addition to those two states, the survey suffers from very small samples in
some with the most recent immigrant populations. But Mr. Bendixen said that in
these states, the remittance figures should be off by no more than 10 percent.

The data are consistent with a known pattern in which Latino migrants move from
immigrant-heavy states like Illinois to new frontiers like Pennsylvania in
search of jobs.

''Somebody who is already here hears about a new plant opening and goes there,''
observed Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Institute. ''After
a while, the word gets back to Mexico, and the migrant stream is no longer from
California to a meatpacking plant in Iowa. It's Mexico to a plant in Iowa.''

The reconstruction of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina provides an example of
how immigrant populations coalesce around jobs. Latino immigrants have flocked
to New Orleans, where another study has found that by this summer, they
accounted for half the reconstruction force, with 54 percent of them working in
the United States illegally.

They too have begun to send money back. According to the bank's survey,
remittances to Latin America from Louisiana should top $200 million this year, a
240 percent increase since 2004.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''A Stream of Cash From Every Corner''Latin American
immigrants in almost every state are sending money home this year, for a total
of $45 billion, according to a recent survey.CALIF.: $13.2 billionTEXAS: $5.2
billionN.Y.: $3.7 billionFLORIDA: $3.1 billionMap of the United States
highlighting money transfers to Latin America (2006 estimates).(Source by
Inter-American Development Bank's Multilateral Investment Fund)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 20, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A Twist on the Old Dream: Looking to Ireland for Jobs

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Cassi Feldman contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1016 words


The jobs fair that Ireland is holding tonight in Midtown Manhattan was
envisioned as an invitation home to hard-pressed Irish immigrants living
illegally in New York. Instead, to the surprise of organizers, it is mainly
American citizens who have shown interest and seem eager for a new career and a
new life in Ireland's booming economy.

Some, like Robert Aspland, 54, are disenchanted veterans of American business
who see a better market in Ireland for their ideas and experience. Others are
young and frustrated, like Patrick Cahalan, 26, a fourth-generation New Yorker
with a degree in graphic design who is ready to chuck freelance work at stagnant
wages to chase the kind of opportunity his distant Irish ancestors once sought
in America.

''Their economy is on the way up, their education's on the way up,'' said Mr.
Cahalan, who had just returned from his first trip to Ireland when he learned of
the jobs fair, which begins at 5 p.m. today and runs through tomorrow afternoon
at the Affinia Manhattan hotel on Seventh Avenue and 31st Street.

''The reports of economic growth in America may be true, but they usually don't
include people like me,'' he added. ''It seems like getting a full-time job with
benefits that also pays a living wage is like a pipe dream here these days.''

That kind of interest from American citizens is new to Gregory Craig, director
of corporate affairs for FAS, the Irish national training and employment
authority, which has organized the event and has run similar fairs from Sydney
to Moscow, striving to fill the 60,000 skilled vacancies in its jobs bank.

But when Mr. Craig checked the immigration figures with his own foreign
ministry, he said, he realized he was at the front line of a small but
unmistakable trend: nearly three times more Americans moved to Ireland last year
than Irish immigrated to the United States.

The numbers are tiny, though growing: 4,300 Americans immigrated to Ireland in
2005, and 5,000 are projected by the end of this year, Mr. Craig said. Only
1,700 Irish came to America in 2005, and the numbers are expected to dwindle.

That kind of twist on the past was worth a good laugh to Timothy J. Meagher, a
historian of Irish-American immigration at Catholic University of America in
Washington.

''It has a nice symmetry to it, doesn't it?'' he said when he caught his breath.
''It really is a historic pass. It's kind of mind-boggling.''

For most of three centuries, Ireland hemorrhaged its population and served as
the image of poverty and failure, he said. As recently as 1990, 23,000 people
left Ireland, including some who re-greened old Irish neighborhoods in New York,
Boston and Philadelphia but never gained legal status.

Some joined a return migration to now-prosperous Ireland, and those left behind
without American citizenship seem like a natural audience for the job fair,
which is described as having 6,500 ''live jobs'' of every kind, from posts in
the financial sector and the stock exchange to work for painters, plumbers and
decorators. In New York, illegal Irish immigrants face security crackdowns that
make it harder for those without a valid Social Security number to drive, work
or plan a future in the United States.

But Mr. Craig worried that fear would keep some away. ''Our undocumented have a
problem with this show because they feel threatened,'' he said. ''A lot of
people are afraid that your Homeland Security people will be there.''

Others dismissed the idea. ''We don't buy into that at all, the threat of a
swoop,'' said Adrian Flannelly, chairman of the Irish Radio Network in New York,
who has served on an Irish government task force on returnees. ''It would be
highly inappropriate for the strong arm of the law to show up.''

Just who will show up remains to be seen. But Mr. Craig, who has helped run
similar events in Poland, Estonia, and Latvia, said email in response to flyers
and notices in the Irish-American press had come overwhelmingly from Americans,
some with ancestral ties to Ireland, but many without.

''My view is these people are looking for a complete change of life,'' he said,
listing some of Ireland's advantages as competitive pay, plentiful jobs, four
months maternity leave, full health coverage and free education through college.

By law, preference is given to citizens of Europe, like the 120,000 Eastern
Europeans now working in Ireland. But the jobs on offer at the fair have already
been approved for others, he said, and the fair will provide information about
visas and work permits for Americans.

Some, like Mr. Aspland, the veteran businessman, who has never been to Ireland,
are eligible for dual citizenship through an Irish grandparent. His main
interest, however, is parlaying his ties to China into international trade
opportunities from Ireland.

''I'm one of those people who lost everything on the day of 9/11,'' he said,
describing the abrupt end of a career putting together ''road shows'' for stock
offerings and mergers and acquisitions. ''Everybody I knew was either dead or
also out of a job -- they took all the jobs and sent them to India.''

His mother, 89, told him that her mother, Mary Elizabeth Connery, would be
spinning in her grave to think of him moving to Ireland, he said. His
grandmother fled Irish poverty, worked as a domestic in Brooklyn, and died there
at 83 in 1957, happy never to see Dungarvan County again.

But today, he said: ''You need to look at being a global citizen. I love New
York City, and it's the greatest city in the world, but it's something you have
to consider, because I have no benefits. There's more opportunity in Ireland for
someone with my background and my age.''

At a reception for fair organizers last night in the Irish consul general's East
Side penthouse, guests were plied with canapes of smoked salmon and stuffed
mushrooms as officials emphasized that Americans brought the skills, language
and comfort with diversity that suited the new Ireland.

''We're not offering people a favor,'' said Tony Killeen, Ireland's minister for
labor affairs. ''We need them.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about an Ireland jobs fair in Manhattan that
organizers said had attracted more interest from American citizens than from
Irish immigrants referred incorrectly to Dungarvan, the birthplace of the
maternal grandmother of Robert Asplund, one of the job seekers. It is a town in
Ireland, not a county.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Aspland, 54, an American corporate veteran whose business
dropped off after 9/11, sees international trade possibilities via Ireland.
(Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 22, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A First Amendment Scholar, Dogged by Free-Speech Fights

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON and TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1663 words


Lee C. Bollinger, the president of Columbia University, is a natural in the
classroom, guiding undergraduates through the intricacies of the First
Amendment.

Here he is, pacing, jacketless, playing the role of a politician who wants to
ban pornography: Would it be constitutional, he asks his students? How would he
justify the limits on free speech? He presses on, as a politician might,
proclaiming, ''I really think we should eliminate certain viewpoints from
society.'' Some students start to laugh. ''Why don't we do that?'' he asks.

There is probably no university chief in America more steeped in issues of free
speech than Mr. Bollinger, 60, a First Amendment scholar.

And yet, in just the last month, his campus has been embroiled in four separate
free-speech controversies: over the language in an ice hockey recruiting flier;
a rescinded speaking invitation to the president of Iran; a Teachers College
policy on ''social justice'' that some see as an ideological litmus test; and a
brawl that broke out during a protest against a speech by the founder of the
Minuteman Project, a group that has mounted border patrols to fight illegal
immigration.

Critics including Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and editorial writers at many
newspapers across the country scolded the protesters at that speech and
questioned why Mr. Bollinger, of all people, could not keep Columbia open to
diverse voices.

''Bollinger definitely knows how to say the right things about free speech, but
the question is whether he can walk the walk,'' said Greg Lukianoff, president
of the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, a group that presses for
free speech in academia.

Since he took over as president four years ago, Mr. Bollinger has unfailingly
defended free speech at each new challenge. But some professors and others say
his carefully wrought statements in favor of open discussion often come across
as the work of a deliberative legal scholar more than a forceful leader.

''It would help foster a culture of free speech at Columbia and similar
institutions if leading spokespersons could convey this point loudly and
clearly,'' said David C. Johnston, a professor of political philosophy at
Columbia. ''But that has not happened at Columbia recently.''

Others disagree.

William V. Campbell, the chairman of the university's board, said Mr. Bollinger
''has handled these things as firmly and directly as he possibly could.''

Eric R. Kandel, a professor and Nobel laureate in medicine, called Mr.
Bollinger's approach ''simply superb.''

And an editorial in the student newspaper, The Columbia Daily Spectator, said
that in the frenzy over the disruption of the speech by the Minuteman leader,
Jim Gilchrist, ''it appears that the administration is the only party that has
reacted thoughtfully.''

To some extent, the skirmishes over free speech illustrate the challenges facing
any university president -- free-speech expert or not -- trying to foster open
discussion at a large institution with many constituencies. This year,
protesters at the New School in New York City attracted attention when they
jeered their commencement speaker, Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican
and presidential prospect.

In an interview, Mr. Bollinger said Columbia's record of free speech incidents
was just ''the nature of controversy in the world, playing out on a great
university campus, which happens to be one of the most covered by the media.''

Now one of the most selective colleges in the Ivy League, Columbia, under Mr.
Bollinger's leadership, has embarked on an ambitious campus expansion and a $4
billion capital campaign. This month it harvested two new Nobel prizes. It is
almost a tradition for Columbia, with its New York City setting and its defining
student protest of 1968, to attract both outspoken students and free-speech
controversies.

In 2003, after a professor at an antiwar teach-in said he would like to see ''a
million Mogadishus,'' referring to the lethal 1993 ''Black Hawk Down'' firefight
in Somalia, Mr. Bollinger was swamped by calls to fire the professor. He said
repeatedly that while he was appalled by the sentiment, professors had a right
to express their opinions.

Then came a bruising battle over whether Jewish students faced harassment from
pro-Palestinian faculty members, which led to a lengthy investigation of the
charges and of the university's handling of complaints.

These days, debate over what constitutes legitimate speech and legitimate
protest rages anew. Students recently faced off at a debate sponsored by the
Columbia chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union on whether demonstrators
had the right to rush the stage at the Gilchrist speech.

''There's general agreement that the physical altercation was unacceptable, but
it's one of these things where certain students feel it's completely acceptable
to walk on stage and others believe that it isn't,'' said Christopher Riano, one
of the students who lead the University Senate's student affairs committee.
''President Bollinger has done a very good job of engaging students. The area of
debate is where do we, as Columbia, feel the lines should be drawn, and that
debate is going to continue.''

Others say that despite Mr. Bollinger's statements on the importance of free
speech, he and Columbia sometimes appear to be sending mixed messages.

The ice hockey club team, for example, was told on Sept. 24 that it would not be
allowed to play this year and would be on probation for two years because of an
unapproved flier that contained vulgar language.

Many students thought the punishment too harsh. A sophomore hockey hopeful, Matt
Pruznick, called it ''ridiculous''; Brendan Charney, who leads the Columbia
A.C.L.U., said it ''chilled free speech.''

After a week, the university backed down, saying that the team could play this
year and that the probation would last one year, not two.

There was also the flip-flop over a dean's invitation to Iran's president,
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and its withdrawal less than 24 hours later. Faced with
protests about the invitation to the leader, who has called the Holocaust a
''myth,'' Mr. Bollinger defended it, saying, ''We are not afraid of words from
the likes of President Ahmadinejad.'' But he also stood by as the dean canceled
the appearance, citing security concerns.

Bruce W. Robbins, a professor in the English and Comparative Literature
Department, said, ''When the invitation to President Ahmadinejad was canceled on
what looked very much like a technicality, it seemed to a lot of us that the
speaker had been silenced and people's right to hear him ignored.''

Then, too, Mr. Lukianoff's Foundation for Individual Rights in Education wrote
in September to Mr. Bollinger and the president of Teachers College, a graduate
school that is run independently of Columbia, complaining about a Teachers
College policy it termed an '' an ideological loyalty oath.''

The school's ''conceptual framework'' says its teacher training emphasizes ''our
strong commitment to education for social justice'' and adds that ''all
educators need to believe that schools can be sites for social transformation
even though they may currently serve to maintain social inequities.''

Neither Columbia nor Teachers College answered the complaint until after the
group took the matter public. Then, in a letter Oct. 11, the president of
Teachers College, Susan H. Fuhrman, said that there was no ideology imposed on
students. ''We teach a concern for social justice, but do not legislate a vision
of what social justice is,'' she wrote.

Mr. Bollinger says he feels comfortable with the handling of each of these
issues. Moreover, he said, he believes strongly that his scholarly temperament
and his commitment to responding to issues in ''all their complexity'' serve him
and Columbia well.

But Michael I. Sovern, a past president of Columbia who says he admires Mr.
Bollinger's leadership on the university's expansion, sounds unsure when asked
about Mr. Bollinger's leadership on free-speech issues.

''The bully pulpit is the president's most effective tool,'' Mr. Sovern said.

And is Mr. Bollinger using it effectively?

''Boy, that's hard to say,'' Mr. Sovern said.

Mr. Bollinger, who became known nationally for his defense of affirmative action
while president of the University of Michigan, does not depart willingly from
scholarly discourse.

''You can't represent an institution without being consistent with its
fundamental character,'' he said. ''If you try to oversimplify, ultimately it
will catch up with you.''

For all his ease in the classroom, Mr. Bollinger is more formal, more measured
in an interview, answering questions slowly and thoughtfully -- or, sometimes,
saying nothing and simply waiting for another question.

Asked about his leadership, Mr. Bollinger said, ''It's really wrong to assume
that there is an inconsistency between seeing complexity and taking a strong
position.''

He stressed that he has stood up very visibly for affirmative action, for
diversity -- and for free speech, as recently as in the statement he sent out
campus-wide responding to the Minuteman controversy.

''In a society committed to free speech, there will inevitably be times when
speakers use words that anger, provoke, and even cause pain,'' it said in part.
''Then, more than ever, we are called on to maintain our courage to confront bad
words with better words. That is the hallmark of a university and of our
democratic society.'' The university is investigating the event and has said it
could bring disciplinary charges.

In the class that he teaches for undergraduates, ''Freedom of Speech and
Press,'' Mr. Bollinger praised thoughtfulness.

When a student, asked whether a pornography ban would withstand legal scrutiny,
responded, ''It's complicated,'' the professor smiled.

''It is complicated,'' he said. ''It's taken me two months to get you to say
that.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters at a Columbia University speech on Oct. 4 by Jim
Gilchrist of the Minuteman Project, which mounts armed patrols to curb illegal
immigration. (Photo by Stan Honda/AFP/Getty Images)
Aharon Horwitz, a 2004 graduate, at a protest of Columbia's report last year on
friction between some Jewish students and pro-Palestinian faculty members.
(Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
Students at a silent demonstration in April 2003 in support of a Columbia
professor whose comment about ''a million Mogadishus'' led to calls for his
dismissal. (Photo by Matt Moyer for The New York Times)
Lee C. Bollinger, a First Amendment scholar who has been president of Columbia
for four years, in a university library last Wednesday. (Photo by Fred R.
Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 35)
A classroom at Columbia University in May 1968 after a student sit-in. The
university has been a setting for protests throughout the decades. (Photo by
Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)
 Lee C. Bollinger, president of Columbia, teaching an undergraduate class on the
First Amendment at the university last Wednesday. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The
New York Times)(pg. 36)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Fewer Immigrants Captured

BYLINE: BLOOMBERG NEWS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 75 words


Apprehensions of illegal immigrants crossing the border fell last year by 8
percent, the Department of Homeland Security said. The Border Patrol caught
about 1.1 million illegal immigrants in the 2006 fiscal year, which ended Sept.
30, compared with about 1.2 million in the previous year, the department said.
The lower number is a sign that tougher enforcement is deterring people from
making the trip, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 2, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Georgia: Raids On Immigrants Prompt Suit

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 107 words


A civil rights group sued the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency,
claiming its agents had harassed five American citizens of Mexican descent
during raids seeking illegal immigrants in southeastern Georgia. The group, the
Southern Poverty Law Center, said the agents entered houses without warrants,
terrified Latinos and vandalized their property. The center wants an injunction
preventing similar raids and unspecified compensation for the plaintiffs. An
agency spokesman, Marc Raimondi, called the accusations ''patently false.'' The
complaint concerns a sweep in which more than 120 illegal immigrants were
arrested around Stillmore.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 2, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 53 words


Because of an editing error, a report in the National Briefing column yesterday
about a restraining order against an ordinance to fine landlords who rent to
illegal immigrants and deny business permits to companies that employ them
misspelled the Pennsylvania city that approved the ordinance. It is Hazleton,
not Hazelton.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 4, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Accessory for a U.S. Border Fence: A Welcome Mat for Foreign Loans

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 488 words


Mexico has been a popular topic in the run-up to this year's Congressional
elections, but not in any way the Mexicans have enjoyed.

Congressional Republicans, seeking a popular initiative to improve their
position with voters, scheduled a series of hearings this summer on the threat
of immigration, and then passed a bill authorizing, but not paying for, a
700-mile fence on the United States border with Mexico.

That bill left out provisions sought by President Bush that would have made it
possible for some illegal aliens to obtain American citizenship eventually.

And while there are doubts about how much good a fence would do -- the border is
2,000 miles long and many illegal immigrants enter on visas and fail to leave --
there seems to be little doubt that many Americans are worried about Mexico,
both as a source of illegal immigrants and as a destination for jobs. The North
American Free Trade Agreement has been denounced in some campaigns.

But in a campaign appearance near New York this week, former President Bill
Clinton pointed to another role Mexico now plays, as the 10th-largest
international lender to the United States. Debtors, perhaps, should be nice to
their creditors.

The chart accompanying this table shows the 10 countries now with the largest
ownership of United States Treasury securities, including both private and
public lenders. The figures also show how much the holdings have grown since the
end of 2000, just before President Bush took office.

Over all, Mexico's holdings of U.S. Treasury securities have risen 175 percent
since the end of 2000, faster than the overall foreign increase of 112 percent,
but far below the 462 percent gain in Chinese holdings. All told, Japan, China
and Hong Kong now hold $1.03 trillion in U.S. Treasuries -- more than all
foreign countries combined held at the end of 2000.

There are limitations to the figures, as they can obscure ultimate owners. A
Treasury security held by a British money manager on behalf of a Japanese client
will show up as being held in Britain, a fact that helps to explain why that
country ranks third on the list.

The other chart shows the extent to which the soaring supply of Treasury
securities has been soaked up overseas. Figures from the Federal Reserve
indicate that at the end of 2000, there were $2.8 trillion in Treasury
securities outstanding, excluding those held by the Fed itself. Of those, $1
trillion, or about 36 percent, were held overseas.

By the end of June this year, the latest figures available, another $1.1
trillion had been added to the supply of Treasuries, increasing the figure by 40
percent. But only $140 million of the new supply was sold to Americans; the rest
is overseas.

A result is that Americans now own less than half the outstanding Treasuries.
American politicians may not be happy to see foreigners moving to their country,
but they have been quite happy to take loans from them.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Top 10 foreign holders of U.S. Treasuries''1 JapanAS OF AUG.
2006, IN BILLIONS: $644.2CHANGE FROM DEC. 2000: +103%2 ChinaAS OF AUG. 2006, IN
BILLIONS: 339.0CHANGE FROM DEC. 2000: +4623 BritainAS OF AUG. 2006, IN BILLIONS:
201.4CHANGE FROM DEC. 2000: +3014 South KoreaAS OF AUG. 2006, IN BILLIONS:
66.7CHANGE FROM DEC. 2000: +1255 TaiwanAS OF AUG. 2006, IN BILLIONS: 65.6CHANGE
FROM DEC. 2000: +966 GermanyAS OF AUG. 2006, IN BILLIONS: 51.1CHANGE FROM DEC.
2000: +47 Hong KongAS OF AUG. 2006, IN BILLIONS: 50.6CHANGE FROM DEC. 2000: +318
CanadaAS OF AUG. 2006, IN BILLIONS: 47.2CHANGE FROM DEC. 2000: +2089 BrazilAS OF
AUG. 2006, IN BILLIONS: 43.2CHANGE FROM DEC. 2000: N.A.10 MexicoAS OF AUG. 2006,
IN BILLIONS: 42.0CHANGE FROM DEC. 2000: +175TotalAS OF AUG. 2006, IN BILLIONS:
$2,150.9CHANGE FROM DEC. 2000: +112%Graph tracks foreign vs. domestic holders of
U.S. Treasuries (quarterly, through 2nd quarter of 2006) since 1980.(Sources by
U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve, via Haver Analytics)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 4, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Wider Audience For Border Cameras

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 99 words


Texas has started broadcasting live images of the Mexican border on the Internet
in a program that asks the public to report signs of illegal immigration or drug
crimes. A test Web site, texasborderwatch.com, went live Thursday with views
from eight cameras and ways for viewers to e-mail reports of suspicious
activity. Previously, the images had been available only to law enforcement and
landowners where the cameras are located. Some civil rights groups have said use
of the cameras would instill fear in border communities and could lead to racial
profiling and fraudulent reports of crimes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 6, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Border State, A Bottom-Line Topic

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN: Immigration; Pg.
17

LENGTH: 356 words

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Nov. 5


As Harry Mitchell, a Democrat who has been giving Representative J. D. Hayworth
a tough challenge, sought to energize the volunteers about to knock on doors for
him in Phoenix on Sunday, he invoked the word that he believed summed up his
campaign: change.

''We reflect the mood of the country,'' said Mr. Mitchell, a state senator and
former mayor of Tempe. ''And the mood of the country is 'We want change.' ''

With that, the volunteers set out, hoping to deliver on his prediction in the
predominantly Republican Fifth Congressional District, where Mr. Mitchell and
Mr. Hayworth have argued over taxes, health care, their personalities and, of
course, this being a border state, illegal immigration.

On Sunday, neither Mr. Mitchell, who appeared at get-out-the-vote rallies, nor
Mr. Hayworth, a six-term Republican, focused on specifics in the illegal
immigration debate, which originally drove the campaign. Instead they made more
general pleas for voters to get to the polls on Tuesday.

Mr. Hayworth is known for an uncompromising approach to illegal immigration --
he emphasizes building a border fence and vehemently opposes any program that
would lead to citizenship for illegal workers -- and often delivers fiery
speeches on talk shows.

Mr. Mitchell brought in a supporter, Representative Xavier Becerra, Democrat of
California, to increase turnout among Latinos angry at Mr. Hayworth's hard-line
stance.

''Are we the party of fear?'' Mr. Becerra called out at one rally.

''No!'' he and supporters yelled.

Mr. Hayworth, meanwhile, had a morning interview on the Fox News Channel, walked
through precincts and rallied supporters at a cowboy-themed steakhouse.

In the interview on ''Fox and Friends,'' Mr. Hayworth dismissed Democrats and
pundits in Washington who were speculating on, and in some cases predicting, his
political demise.

''I am going to hang on to my seat,'' he said, ''and I think there are going to
be a lot of surprises on Election Day.''

And at the restaurant here, Mr. Hayworth said his top concern was to secure the
border. ''National security,'' he said, ''is border security.''   RANDAL C.
ARCHIBOLD

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 6, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Not-So-Great Wall

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 55 words



To the Editor:

Re ''The Fence Campaign'' (editorial, Oct. 30), about the law authorizing a
700-mile fence to keep out illegal immigrants:

So now we will have the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor and a fence along
the border with Mexico.

Which best represents the United States?

James Eisenstein
South Pasadena, Calif.
Oct. 30, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 7, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Mid-Atlantic: Pennsylvania: Immigrant Measure Bar Extended

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 132 words


A federal judge's order temporarily blocking the City of Hazleton from enforcing
a crackdown on illegal immigrants was extended to give both sides time to
prepare for a trial. The judge, James M. Munley of United States District Court,
whose temporary restraining order was to expire Nov. 14, extended it for up to
120 days. Two measures approved by the City Council last month would fine
landlords who rented to illegal immigrants, deny business permits to companies
that hired them and require tenants to register with City Hall and pay for a
rental permit. Hispanic groups and the American Civil Liberties Union filed
suit, saying the measures trampled on the government's exclusive power to
regulate immigration. The city defends the law as necessary to protect legal
residents from crime.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vatican Decries Fence Planned For U.S. Border

BYLINE: By PETER KIEFER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: ROME, Nov. 14


In a speech discussing immigrants and refugees, a top Vatican official on
Tuesday took aim at Washington's plan to build a fence along the Mexican border,
saying it was inhumane.

''Speaking of borders, I must unfortunately say that in a world that greeted the
fall of the Berlin Wall with joy, new walls are being built between neighborhood
and neighborhood, city and city, nation and nation,'' said Cardinal Renato
Martino, in presenting Pope Benedict XVI's message for the Roman Catholic
Church's World Day of Migrants and Refugees.

Cardinal Martino discussed child labor and forced prostitution, and according to
Reuters was asked about President Bush's recent signing of legislation enabling
the construction of a 700-mile border fence. The cardinal, head of the
Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, responded by praising Mexican and
United States bishops who opposed the plan.

Plans for the fence served as a rallying point in American elections last week,
with proponents calling it necessary to stem the tide of immigrants entering the
country illegally.

Cardinal Martino also said human trafficking, specifically child labor and the
forced prostitution of women, was worse now than the trade in African slaves of
past centuries.

''It's worse than the slavery of those who were taken from Africa and brought to
other countries,'' the cardinal said. ''In a world which proclaims human rights
left and right, let's see what it does about the rights of so many human beings
which are not respected, but trampled.''

Speaking for the pope, Cardinal Martino also addressed the issue of the
integration of Muslim immigrants in European countries. ''Much still remains to
be done,'' he said, adding, ''It is necessary to provide for legislative,
juridical and social intervention to facilitate such an integration.''

In related news, Italy said it would open its job market to Romanians once their
country joined the European Union on Jan. 1, on condition that Romania cracked
down on cross-border crime that led to prostitution and drug trafficking.

''I will try to sign an agreement with Romania to strengthen cooperation in the
fight against crime,'' Interior Minister Giuliano D'Amato told the daily
newspaper La Repubblica.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 16, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas Lawmakers Put New Focus on Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 15


In a sign of rising passions over immigration issues, Texas lawmakers prepared
for the 2007 session this week by filing a flurry of bills that would deny
public assistance and other benefits to the children of illegal immigrants, tax
money transfers to Mexico and the rest of Latin America and sue the federal
government for the costs of state border control.

At the same time, a Dallas suburb, Farmers Branch, became the first Texas
municipality to enact measures fining landlords who rent to illegal immigrants,
authorizing the police to seek certification to act on behalf of the Department
of Homeland Security and declaring English the city's official language.

Many of the bills are unlikely to become law, but, combined with the Farmers
Branch action, they have raised questions about whether Texas, where almost a
third of the population was listed as Hispanic in the 2000 census, is about to
get caught up in the kinds of legal fights about illegal immigration that have
occurred elsewhere.

''It's awful,'' said Brent A. Wilkes, the national executive director of the
League of United Latin American Citizens, the nation's largest and oldest
Hispanic rights group. ''Texas for a long time has avoided this anti-immigrant
hysteria.''

But some Texas officials said the time had come for the state to crack down on
illegal immigration because the federal government had chosen not to do so.

''Want to know what it's all about?'' asked State Representative Burt R.
Solomons, a Republican from Carrollton, outside Dallas, who introduced a bill to
deny state licenses to people without proof of legal residence. ''Absolute
frustration.''

''If they get a license or permit, they ought to be here legally,'' Mr. Solomons
said. ''What's wrong with that? I don't think it's draconian.''

Mr. Solomons also filed a resolution to put the House on record, as he put it,
as ''demanding the federal government do what they're supposed to'' to control
the border with Mexico and to authorize the state attorney general to sue
Washington to recoup the state's costs.

Monday was the first day members of the Texas House and Senate, who convene
every two years, could file bills for the coming session. At least 9 of the
first 325 or so bills, as posted on the legislative Web site, dealt with
immigration.

Perhaps the most sweeping, proposed by Representative Leo Berman, a Republican
from Tyler, would deny state benefits, including welfare payments, food stamps,
disability payments and public housing and unemployment assistance to the
children of illegal immigrants. The children, if born in the United States, are
American citizens.

An earlier version of the bill would also have denied the children schooling and
health care, rights affirmed as basic constitutional guarantees by a divided
United States Supreme Court in 1969. Mr. Berman said he removed those provisions
to gain passage of the measure in Texas with the goal of leading to another
Supreme Court review.

''We want to see if that law is still applicable today,'' he said. ''The
environment is totally changed.''

Mr. Berman also proposed a bill that would impose an 8 percent tax on electronic
money transfers from immigrant workers in the state to people in Mexico and
Central and South America, although it is not clear whether federal law would
allow it.

Another Republican representative, Dianne White Delisi, from Temple, introduced
a bill to require state agencies to report the cost of services like hospital
care provided to illegal immigrants. Ms. Delisi said some figures suggested a
rise of 77 percent in unpaid hospital care in Harris County, which includes
Houston, over the last three years. But, she said, ''the bottom line in Texas is
we don't know.''

The housing ordinance in Farmers Branch, adopted on a 5-to-0 vote by the City
Council, requires landlords to demand proof of legal residency from all renters,
with violations punishable by fines of $500 per tenant for each day of
violation. The preamble says the action was taken ''in response to the
widespread concern of future terrorist attacks following the events of Sept. 11,
2001.''

It prompted quick opposition from landlords who protested that they were
ill-equipped to police the immigration status of their tenants, and from
Hispanic activists who said they would challenge the measure in court.

On Tuesday, two other towns, Taneytown in central Maryland and Pahrump in
southern Nevada, passed measures declaring English the official language.
Hazleton, Pa., enacted a similar ordinance in July, but it has been held off
pending a court challenge.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Thursday about immigration issues in Texas, including
bills to deny state benefits to illegal immigrants and their children, referred
incorrectly to a Supreme Court decision on constitutional guarantees to children
of illegal immigrants and misstated its date. Ruling against the City of Tyler,
the court said that denying schooling to such children was a violation of the
14th Amendment's equal protection guarantee; it did not include health care as a
constitutional right. The decision was in 1982, not 1969.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters gathered Monday outside City Hall in Farmers Branch,
Tex., to object to city ordinances that would affect illegal immigrants. (Photo
by Rex C. Curry/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Newark: Immigration Sweep

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 89 words


Immigration agents arrested 137 people last week in a five-day sweep for illegal
immigrants, federal officials said yesterday. Of those arrested, 54 had ignored
warrants for their removal from the United States, while 83 were illegally in
the country, Immigration and Customs Enforcement said. The immigrants are from
21 countries, including Mexico, Honduras, Guatemala, Pakistan, Egypt, Poland,
India, Slovakia, Costa Rica, Albania, Macedonia and the United Kingdom. A
similar operation last month resulted in 111 arrests in New Jersey.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Border Watcher Finds Himself Under Scrutiny

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1441 words


For years, Roger Barnett has holstered a pistol to his hip, tucked an assault
rifle in his truck and set out over the scrub brush on his thousands of acres of
ranchland near the Mexican border in southeastern Arizona to hunt.

Hunt illegal immigrants, that is, often chronicled in the news.

''They're flooding across, invading the place,'' Mr. Barnett told the ABC
program ''Nightline'' this spring. ''They're going to bring their families,
their wives, and they're going to bring their kids. We don't need them.''

But now, after boasting of having captured 12,000 illegal crossers on land he
owns or leases from the state and emerging as one of the earliest and most
prominent of the self-appointed border watchers, Mr. Barnett finds himself the
prey.

Immigrant rights groups have filed lawsuits, accusing him of harassing and
unlawfully imprisoning people he has confronted on his ranch near Douglas. One
suit pending in federal court accuses him, his wife and his brother of pointing
guns at 16 illegal immigrants they intercepted, threatening them with dogs and
kicking one woman in the group.

Another suit, accusing Mr. Barnett of threatening two Mexican-American hunters
and three young children with an assault rifle and insulting them with racial
epithets, ended Wednesday night in Bisbee with a jury awarding the hunters
$98,750 in damages.

The court actions are the latest example of attempts by immigrant rights groups
to curb armed border-monitoring groups by going after their money, if not their
guns. They have won civil judgments in Texas, and this year two illegal
Salvadoran immigrants who had been held against their will took possession of a
70-acre ranch in southern Arizona after winning a case last year.

The Salvadorans had accused the property owner, Casey Nethercott, a former
leader of the Ranch Rescue group, of menacing them with a gun in 2003. Mr.
Nethercott was convicted of illegal gun possession; the Salvadorans plan to sell
the property, their lawyer has said.

But Mr. Barnett, known for dressing in military garb and caps with insignia
resembling the United States Border Patrol's, represents a special prize to the
immigrant rights groups. He is ubiquitous on Web sites, mailings and brochures
put out by groups monitoring the Mexican border and, with family members, was an
inspiration for efforts like the Minutemen civilian border patrols.

''The Barnetts, probably more than any people in this country, are responsible
for the vigilante movement as it now exists,'' said Mark Potok, legal director
of the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks the groups. ''They were the
recipients of so much press coverage and they kept boasting, and it was out of
those boasts that the modern vigilante movement sprang up.''

Jesus Romo Vejar, the lawyer for the hunting party, said their court victory
Wednesday would serve notice that mistreating immigrants would not pass
unpunished. Although the hunters were not in the United States illegally, they
contended that Mr. Barnett's treatment of them reflected his attitude and
practices toward Latinos crossing his land, no matter what their legal status.

''We have really, truly breached their defense,'' Mr. Vejar said, ''and this
opens up the Barnetts to other attorneys to come in and sue him whenever he does
some wrong with people.''

Mr. Vejar said he would ask the state attorney general and the county attorney,
who had cited a lack of evidence in declining to prosecute Mr. Barnett, to take
another look at the case. He also said he would ask the state to revoke Mr.
Barnett's leases on its land.

Mr. Barnett had denied threatening anyone. He left the courtroom after the
verdict without commenting, and his lawyer, John Kelliher, would not comment
either.

In a brief interview during a court break last week, Mr. Barnett denied harming
anyone and said that the legal action would not deter his efforts. He said that
the number of illegal immigrants crossing his land had declined recently but
that he thought it was only a temporary trend.

''For your children, for our future, that's why we need to stop them,'' Mr.
Barnett said. ''If we don't step in for your children, I don't know who is
expected to step in.''

Mr. Barnett prevailed in a suit in the summer when a jury ruled against a fellow
rancher who had sued, accusing him of trespassing on his property as he pursued
immigrants. Another suit last year was dropped when the plaintiff, who had
returned to Mexico, decided not to return to press the case.

Still, the threat of liability has discouraged ranchers from allowing the more
militant civilian patrol groups on their land, and accusations of abuse seem to
be on the wane, said Jennifer Allen of the Border Action Network, an immigrant
rights group.

But David H. Urias, a lawyer with the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund who is
representing the 16 immigrants suing Mr. Barnett, said fewer complaints did not
necessarily mean less activity. Immigrants from Mexico are returned to their
country often within hours and often under the impression that their deportation
-- and chance to try to return again -- will go quicker without their
complaints.

''It took us months to find these 16 people,'' Mr. Urias said.

People who tend ranches on the border said that even if they did not agree with
Mr. Barnett's tactics they sympathized with his rationale, and that putting him
out of business would not resolve the problems they believe the crossers cause.

''The illegals think they have carte blanche on his ranch,'' said Al Garza, the
executive director of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps in Arizona, a civilian
patrol group that, Mr. Garza says, does not detain illegal immigrants but calls
in their movements to the Border Patrol. ''The man has had it.''

Mr. Barnett, a retired Cochise County sheriff's deputy and the owner of a towing
business, acquired his ranch in the mid-1990s, buying or leasing from the state
more than 22,000 acres.

Almost from the start he took up a campaign against the people crossing the
border from Mexico, sometimes detaining large groups and radioing for the Border
Patrol to pick them up.

Chuy Rodriguez, a spokesman for the agency's Tucson office, said the Border
Patrol maintained no formal relationship with Mr. Barnett or other civilian
groups. Agency commanders, concerned about potential altercations, have warned
the groups not to take the law into their hands.

''If they see something, we ask them to call us, like we would ask of any
citizen,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.

Mr. Barnett's lawyers have suggested he has acted out of a right to protect his
property.

''A lease holder doesn't have the right to protect his cattle?'' Mr. Kelliher
asked one of the men in the hunting party, Arturo Morales, at the trial.

''I guess so, maybe,'' Mr. Morales replied.

Mr. Barnett has had several encounters with local law enforcement officials over
detaining illegal immigrants, some of whom complained that he pointed guns at
them. The local authorities have declined to prosecute him, citing a lack of
evidence or ambiguity about whether he had violated any laws.

A few years ago, however, the Border Action Network and its allied groups began
collecting testimony from illegal immigrants and others who had had
confrontations with Mr. Barnett.

They included the hunters, who sued Mr. Barnett for unlawful detention,
emotional distress and other claims, and sought at least $200,000. Ronald
Morales; his father, Arturo; Ronald Morales's two daughters, ages 9 and 11; and
an 11-year-old friend said Mr. Barnett, his brother Donald and his wife,
Barbara, confronted them Oct. 30, 2004.

Ronald Morales testified that Mr. Barnett used expletives and ethnically
derogatory remarks as he sought to kick them off state-owned property he leases.
Then, Mr. Morales said, Mr. Barnett pulled an AR-15 assault rifle from his truck
and pointed it at them as they drove off, traumatizing the girls.

Mr. Kelliher conceded that there was a heated confrontation. But he denied that
Mr. Barnett used slurs and said Ronald Morales was as much an instigator. He
said Morales family members had previously trespassed on Mr. Barnett's land and
knew that Mr. Barnett required written permission to hunt there.

Even as the trial proceeded, the Border Patrol reported a 45 percent drop in
arrests in the Douglas area in the last year. The agency credits scores of new
agents, the National Guard deployment there this summer and improved technology
in detecting crossers.

But Ms. Allen of the Border Action Network and other immigrant rights supporters
suspect that people are simply crossing elsewhere.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Illegal immigrants are ''invading the place,'' said Roger
Barnett, left, on his ranch with his brother Brent. (Photo by Joe
Raedle/Newsmakers)
Ronald Morales, right, his daughter Angelique Venese and others won a civil suit
against Roger Barnett, seen at left. They said he detained them illegally then
pointed a rifle at them after running them off. (Photo by Michael Mally for The
New York Times)
 (Photo by Jeffry Scott/Arizona Daily Star)(pg. A32)Map of Arizona highlighting
Douglas: Roger Barnett owns or leases 22,000 acres near the border. (pg. A32)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants at Home

BYLINE: By Nancy Foner.

Nancy Foner, a professor of sociology at Hunter College and the Graduate Center
at City University of New York, is the author of ''In a New Land: A Comparative
View of Immigration.''

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 712 words


MUCH of America is angry about undocumented immigrants. Congress recently passed
legislation to create a 700-mile fence on the border with Mexico. In Arizona,
vigilante-like Minutemen have staked out the border to prevent illegal aliens
from crossing into the United States. Voters in Arizona just approved a ballot
measure to change the state Constitution to deny bail to illegal immigrants
arrested for serious crimes.

And yet, here in New York City, government officials reassure immigrants that no
one will question their status when they seek care at the city's public
hospitals. What makes this city such a relatively friendly place for the
undocumented?

First, of course, there's no Mexican border. In Arizona, arrests for illegal
crossings now run at more than half a million a year. In New York, the
undocumented have entered more quietly -- and, by and large, legally. The
majority arrived with valid documents at the airport and became illegal by
staying beyond their visa's expiration.

But geography is only one small part of the story. New Yorkers are used to
immigration. Throughout the 20th century, the proportion of immigrants in New
York City was 20 percent or more in all but one census year (1970), and even
then it stood at 18 percent. The increase in the immigrant population in recent
decades has been gradual, unlike the sudden spurt since the 1990s that has made
undocumented immigration an issue in many other places. The immigrant population
of Phoenix grew 428 percent from 1980 to 2000, compared with a 71 percent rise
in New York City.

A remarkable 60 percent of New Yorkers are immigrants or the children of
immigrants. Although the vast majority of the city's 2.9 million immigrants are
legal residents, it's a good bet they have at least one friend or relative who
is not. This makes them more sympathetic to undocumented immigrants than
residents of most other American cities and towns, where the proportion of
immigrants and their children is much smaller.

In any case, only about one in five of the city's immigrants is undocumented. In
Arizona and many other Rocky Mountain and Southern states, more than 40 percent
of the foreign-born are undocumented.

Moreover, in Arizona, as in 29 other states, Mexicans are by far the largest
immigrant nationality -- a whopping two-thirds of all immigrants in Arizona in
2000 as against only 4 percent in New York State and New York City. Because
Mexicans are among the least educated immigrants as well as most likely to be
here illegally, in states like Arizona undocumented status has come to be
associated with poverty, low skills and demand for services.

This is less so in New York City, where only a little more than 10 percent of
undocumented immigrants are Mexican (others come from Africa, Asia, the
Caribbean, Europe and South America). Not only is undocumented status not
associated with one nationality, it is also not as clearly linked with low
levels of education and skills as it is in cities where Mexicans predominate. A
fairly high proportion (about a quarter) of immigrant New Yorkers have college
degrees -- and some of these people are undocumented.

It's important, of course, not to get too carried away with an image of New York
as a haven for the undocumented. In New York, as elsewhere, such immigrants
often end up in low-paid, unpleasant jobs that nobody else wants.

There's plenty of racial and ethnic prejudice here, too. Many New Yorkers do not
support legalization programs, and some make invidious distinctions between
today's undocumented and their own grandparents and great-grandparents who
arrived in an era when Europeans entered without visas or quotas.

Still, there are no Minutemen in New York. And it is hard to imagine the City
Council considering a bill that would deny bail to the undocumented.

Given the city's growing number of immigrant and second-generation voters, no
major New York political figure, or aspiring political figure, is likely to
engage in immigrant-bashing or to target the undocumented. This didn't happen in
the last few decades, even in times of economic downturn. And because of New
York's history and the composition of its population, it will most likely go on
welcoming immigrants, documented and undocumented alike.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Georgia: County Adopts Immigration Measures

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 92 words


Officials in Cherokee County, a fast-growing Atlanta suburb, approved a
ordinance making English the official language of government. The Board of
Commissioners also approved a measure to fine landlords who rented to illegal
immigrants, despite a strong protest by immigrant rights advocates last month at
a public hearing. Immigrant groups vowed to battle the plan in court and
criticized the commission's decision to ban critics from speaking against the
proposal at the two-hour meeting. Cherokee County is north of Atlanta and has
184,000 residents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 7, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Delay In Fatal Smuggling Trial

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 82 words


A defense lawyer's illness interrupted testimony on whether Tyrone M. Williams
should be executed for the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants who suffocated in his
airless milk trailer in South Texas in 2003. The prosecution was citing Mr.
Williams's prior convictions when his main defense lawyer, Craig A. Washington,
a former cancer patient, required unspecified medical treatment during a recess.
Judge Lee H. Rosenthal of Federal District Court told the jury to resume Friday.
RALPH BLUMENTHAL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 9, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Retrial Delayed Until January

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 102 words


The illness of a lawyer and the upcoming holidays have postponed until January
the punishment phase of the retrial of a trucker convicted Monday in the deaths
of 19 illegal immigrants. After prosecutors made opening statements in the
penalty phase of the retrial for Tyrone M. Williams on Wednesday, the
proceedings were put on hold because Mr. Williams's lead lawyer, Craig
Washington, became ill. At a hearing on Friday, another of Mr. Williams's
lawyers, told Judge Lee Rosenthal of Federal District Court that it was unclear
when Mr. Washington would be able to return. Mr. Washington's illness was not
disclosed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 9, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Immigrants' Impact On The Budget

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 120 words


The state's economy would have been almost $18 billion poorer in the last fiscal
year without illegal immigrants who added to state coffers but were a drain on
local government, says a report by the state comptroller. The report is billed
as the first detailed look by a state at the impact of undocumented immigrants
on its budget. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that the United States had 11.1
million undocumented immigrants in 2005. Of these, it said Texas accounted for
between 1.4 million and 1.6 million. ''The absence of the estimated 1.4 million
undocumented immigrants in Texas in fiscal 2005 would have been a loss to our
gross state product of $17.7 billion,'' said the comptroller, Carole Keeton
Strayhorn.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 15, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. IS DROPPING EFFORT TO TRACK IF VISITORS LEAVE

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS and ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14


In a major blow to the Bush administration's efforts to secure borders, domestic
security officials have for now given up on plans to develop a facial or
fingerprint recognition system to determine whether a vast majority of foreign
visitors leave the country, officials say.

Domestic security officials had described the system, known as U.S. Visit, as
critical to security and important in efforts to curb illegal immigration.
Similarly, one-third of the overall total of illegal immigrants are believed to
have overstayed their visas, a Congressional report says.

Tracking visitors took on particular urgency after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, when it became clear that some of the hijackers had remained in the
country after their visas had expired.

But in recent days, officials at the Homeland Security Department have conceded
that they lack the financing and technology to meet their deadline to have
exit-monitoring systems at the 50 busiest land border crossings by next
December. A vast majority of foreign visitors enter and exit by land from Mexico
and Canada, and the policy shift means that officials will remain unable to
track the departures.

A report released on Thursday by the Government Accountability Office, the
nonpartisan investigative arm of Congress, restated those findings, reporting
that the administration believes that it will take 5 to 10 years to develop
technology that might allow for a cost-effective departure system.

Domestic security officials, who have allocated $1.7 billion since the 2003
fiscal year to track arrivals and departures, argue that creating the program
with the existing technology would be prohibitively expensive.

They say it would require additional employees, new buildings and roads at
border crossings, and would probably hamper the vital flow of commerce across
those borders.

Congress ordered the creation of such a system in 1996.

In an interview last week, the assistant secretary for homeland security policy,
Stewart A. Baker, estimated that an exit system at the land borders would cost
''tens of billions of dollars'' and said the department had concluded that such
a program was not feasible, at least for the time being.

''It is a pretty daunting set of costs, both for the U.S. government and the
economy,'' Mr. Stewart said. ''Congress has said, 'We want you to do it.' We are
not going to ignore what Congress has said. But the costs here are daunting.

''There are a lot of good ideas and things that would make the country safer.
But when you have to sit down and compare all the good ideas people have
developed against each other, with a limited budget, you have to make choices
that are much harder.''

The news sent alarms to Congress, where some Republicans and Democrats warned
that suspending the monitoring plan would leave the United States vulnerable.

Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a California Republican who is a departing
subcommittee chairman on the House International Relations Committee, said the
administration could not say it was protecting domestic security without
creating a viable exit monitoring system.

''There will not be border security in this country until we have a knowledge of
both entry and exit,'' Mr. Rohrabacher said. ''We have to make a choice. Do we
want to act and control our borders or do we want to have tens of millions of
illegals continuing to pour into our country?''

Representative Bennie Thompson, the Mississippi Democrat who is set to lead the
Homeland Security Committee, also expressed concern.

''It is imperative that Congress work in partnership with the department to
develop a comprehensive border security system that ensures we know who is
entering and exiting this country and one that cannot be defeated by imposters,
criminals and terrorists,'' Mr. Thompson said in a statement Thursday.

In January 2004, domestic security officials began fingerprint scanning for
arriving visitors. The program has screened more than 64 million travelers and
prevented more than 1,300 criminals and immigration violators from entering,
officials said.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and other officials often call the
program a singular achievement in making the country safer. U.S. Visit
fingerprints and photographs 2 percent of the people entering the country,
because Americans and most Canadians and Mexicans are exempt.

Efforts to determine whether visitors actually leave have faltered. Departure
monitoring would help officials hunt for foreigners who have not left, if
necessary. Domestic security officials say, however, it would be too expensive
to conduct fingerprint or facial recognition scans for land departures.
Officials have experimented with less costly technologies, including a system
that would monitor by radio data embedded in a travel form carried by foreigners
as they depart by foot or in vehicles.

Tests of that technology, Radio Frequency Identification, found a high failure
rate. At one border point, the system correctly identified 14 percent of the 166
vehicles carrying the embedded documents, the General Accountability Office
reported.

The Congressional investigators noted the ''numerous performance and reliability
problems'' with the technology and said it remained unclear how domestic
security officials would be able to meet their legal obligation to create an
exit program.

Some immigration analysts said stepping away from the program raised questions
again about the commitment to enforce border security and immigration laws.

A senior policy analyst at the Center for Immigration Studies, Jessica Vaughn,
said the government had long been too deferential to big businesses and travel
groups that raised concerns that exit technology might disrupt travel and trade.

''I worry that the issue of cost is an excuse for not doing anything,'' said Ms.
Vaughn, whose group advocates curbing immigration. Domestic security officials
said they still hoped to find a way to create an exit system at land borders.
''We would to do more testing,'' a spokesman for the department, Jarrod Agen,
said. ''We are evaluating the initial tests to determine how to move forward.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 19, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Low-Wage Workers From Mexico Dominate Latest Great Wave of Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 761 words


Since the early 1990s, the United States has seen the largest wave of
immigration in its history. Of 300 million people now living here, about 37
million were born in another country. Not since the trans-Atlantic rush a
century ago have immigrants made up such a large portion of the population.

The new immigrants come from places as far-flung as the Philippines, India,
China and El Salvador. But the great wave is dominated by people like Raquel
Rodriguez and her sisters: low-wage workers from Mexico. At least one-third of
the foreign-born in the United States come from Mexico, census figures show.

When Mrs. Rodriguez moved to Texas 11 years ago as a legal resident, she was
lucky to have the best of an American immigration system that is generally
agreed to be broken. Proposals for broad changes in the system by President Bush
and the Senate met opposition this year from Republicans who favored a crackdown
on illegal immigrants. The push for change could resume in the coming months
with the new Democratic majority in Congress.

The clearest sign of the system's dysfunction is that legal permanent residents
are no longer the majority of newcomers. Among recent arrivals, legal immigrants
are outnumbered by illegal ones who sneaked across a border, or came legally and
overstayed their visas. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, about 56 percent
of illegal immigrants come from Mexico.

The calculation Mexican immigrants make is simple: there are jobs across the
border at wages that are much higher than in Mexico. In the United States new
Mexican immigrants mostly earn poverty wages by American standards, a median
income of only $300 a week, the Pew Hispanic Center reported last year. But that
is as much as four times what they would make for similar work at home.

The current United States immigration system, first created by Congress in 1965,
is based on family ties, not labor market demand. An American citizen or legal
resident can petition a federal agency, Citizenship and Immigration Services, to
bring a foreign spouse or children, and citizens can bring their siblings.
Employers may also petition for workers, but most of these visas are for
professionals with special education and skills. In 2005, only 8 percent of
visas were for workers, according to a report in September by an independent
bipartisan task force directed by Doris Meissner, a former head of the
immigration service. Lawful immigrants receive a document known as a green card,
even though the current version is pink.

Most visa categories have numerical caps, limiting their overall annual total to
about 675,000 immigrants, and every country has a general limit of about 26,500
visas per year. As a result, the backlog of applications has become
unmanageable. With the immigration agency overwhelmed, the process is generally
tedious and frustrating. Today, for example, an American citizen seeking to
bring a sibling from Mexico faces a wait of 13 years, the task force report
found.

While Mexicans are coming in ever larger numbers, their legal avenues have not
expanded. One result is that Mexican families often have mixed immigration
status. There might, say, be a legal resident mother and an illegal father with
children who are American citizens because they were born in the United States.

For Mexican immigrants the ties of family and religious faith are often more
compelling than national allegiance. When immigrants first arrive, they rely on
relatives already established in this country to give them shelter and steer
them to jobs. Mexicans sent back $20 billion last year to aid families at home,
the Inter-American Development Bank reported.

Mexicans more than live up to the truism that immigrants work hard. Often they
carry more than one job at a time. Their driven work ethic is the unspoken
factor in many debates about their impact on the labor market. It can lead them
to accept jobs in unacceptable conditions. They run down their health and have
little time to spend with their children.

Legal residents have clear advantages over illegal immigrants. While their job
possibilities are not vastly different, they can hold driver's licenses and bank
accounts, build credit and receive government medical assistance. A growing
proportion of legal immigrants are women.

Mexicans have not always shown a passion for learning English and becoming
American citizens. But the accelerating crackdown on illegal immigration made
many legal residents feel insecure, prompting hundreds of thousands of
applications for citizenship.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 20, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Growing Stream of Illegal Immigrants Choose to Remain Despite the Risks

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 691 words


More Mexican immigrants are in the United States illegally -- without the proper
authorization to reside or work here -- than ever before.

The newest arrivals from Mexico are putting down roots for longer periods and
settling in states that have rarely encountered Latin American immigrants,
places like North Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia and Minnesota. These new
immigrants are also bringing young families with them, a trend that has strained
some schools and other public services.

An estimated 6.2 million illegal immigrants from Mexico now live in the United
States, about half the total number of all Mexicans residing here, according to
data compiled by the Pew Hispanic Center, a research group in Washington. In
all, more than 10 percent of Mexico's 116 million citizens now live in the
United States as legal or illegal immigrants.

Mexicans have been migrating to the United States for more than a century, but
until recently most did so legally. The heavy stream of illegal immigration did
not begin until the 1970s. In 1970, the United States was home to 750,000
Mexicans, primarily legal immigrants, census figures show.

The late 1990s saw a spike in the population of illegal workers entering the
country, drawn by the boom in the economy, particularly in the service and
construction industries. Of the Mexican immigrants now living here, 85 percent
arrived here without authorization, the Pew center estimates.

Ask Mexican immigrants why they risk coming to the United States illegally, and
the reasons seldom vary: better wages, plentiful jobs, family ties and future
opportunity.

''It's the same things you and I want for our families,'' said Demetrios
Papademetriou, president of the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan
research group in Washington.

For most Mexicans, obtaining a visa to live here is next to impossible because
either there are too few visas available or the wait is too long. It is also
increasingly difficult for Mexicans, particularly poor Mexicans, to obtain
tourist visas since the American government tries to screen out people who are
likely to remain here illegally.

Immigrants who get caught living in the United States without authorization
typically face deportation and are barred from re-entering the country legally
for as long as 10 years. For most Mexicans, that prohibition does not dissuade
them from returning but means daunting complications of time and money. Often
they must pay a smuggler to help them cross back into the United States at a
cost of thousands of dollars, which can take years to save or pay back.

Moreover, immigrants who have been deported once and are caught again can face
prosecution and a prison sentence. In recent years, the United States government
has been stricter in pursuing these cases to send a message to other illegal
immigrants.

Increased enforcement along the border in recent years -- especially since the
Sept. 11 attacks -- appears to have deterred few immigrants, Mr. Papademetriou
said, but has resulted in a greater demand for smugglers, higher prices for
smuggling and more deaths from crossing the border. It has also discouraged
people from going back home.

A number of Mexicans also enter the United States with border-crossing cards and
then remain here, although it is impossible to know how many. The card allows
Mexicans to visit for short periods, between 72 hours and 30 days, and they must
stay within 25 miles of the border. People often use these cards to make quick
shopping trips. More than 732,000 of the cards were issued last year.

Today's new wave of illegal immigrants, many of them with children in tow, has
rippled through the nation's schools. Communities where immigrants gather face
challenges to educate children speaking only Spanish whose parents often had
limited schooling at home.

Because they fill low-wage jobs with no or few benefits, Mexicans also suffer a
high poverty rate. In some labor markets, they compete for jobs with the
nation's most disadvantaged, especially young blacks without high school
diplomas, scholars at the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern
University found.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 21, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Bush's Immigration Realism

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 341 words


Every now and then the public gets a glimpse of the George W. Bush who is a calm
realist on immigration, a former governor of a border state who knows, likes and
understands Latino immigrants. It's an identity sharply at odds with that of
many other members of his Republican Party, especially the snarlers clustered on
its right wing.

At his news conference yesterday, Mr. Bush commented on the raids at Swift &
Company, the meatpacking giant that, to nobody's surprise, seems to have had
hundreds of illegal immigrants with forged papers on its low-skill work force.
Mr. Bush did not condemn the detainees as border-crossing evildoers. He spoke
with startling tolerance.

''The system we have in place has caused people to rely upon smugglers and
forgers in order to do work Americans aren't doing,'' Mr. Bush said. ''It is a
system that, frankly, leads to inhumane treatment of people.''

He continued: ''The best way to deal with an issue that Americans agree on --
that we ought to enforce our borders in a humane way -- is we've got to have a
comprehensive bill.''

Mr. Bush understands that many illegal immigrants are doing what they have to do
to support families within a system that offers few routes to lawful entry. He
understands that giving immigrants the opportunity to earn an honest foothold in
this country -- the path to citizenship despised by restrictionists as
''amnesty'' -- is not giving a reward to criminals. It is not something for
nothing. It is an attempt to fix a system that draws in millions of illegal
immigrants each year, efficiently taking their labor but withholding hope.

Mr. Bush has shown a way to move the debate away from the ''amnesty'' trap by
casting reform as a means to end an abusive system and remove the perverse
incentives that allow illegality to flourish. It may sound shocking to say that
illegal immigrants deserve better. But as long as this country keeps swallowing
them up into a broken, unjust system, they do.

Mr. Bush showed yesterday that he gets it. He should do that more often.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 21, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Divided Family, Border Is Sorrowful Barrier

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3473 words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico


She tells her story from a windowless bedroom in a cinderblock house carved into
four apartments that share two showers and two toilet stalls outside. Her
kitchen has no refrigerator or sink. To cook, she buys perishables on the same
day. To wash dishes, she fills buckets from a faucet in the front yard.

''Look how I live,'' Irma tells a visitor. ''I was used to something else.''

Not so long ago, Irma, 44, had achieved her own modest version of the American
dream about 300 miles from here in San Antonio, where she lived illegally for
more than six years. She had left Mexico with three of her four daughters,
escaping financial turmoil and marriage to a man so violent that she considered
suicide, twice slipping a rope over a beam to hang herself.

In Texas, she had learned how to drive and owned not one but two cars. She held
two jobs and, after years of sharing homes with her older sister, Raquel
Rodriguez, the family's only legal resident, and other relatives and friends,
moved with her daughters into a small rented house furnished from flea markets.

''My daughters were in peace,'' Irma recalled, proud in that accomplishment, her
last name and those of some relatives not being disclosed here because they have
been illegal immigrants. ''No one bothered us.''

Then one night over dinner, three years ago, her daughter Mayra, a high school
senior, stunned her with the news that she was pregnant and intended to marry
her boyfriend. Another daughter, Barbie, not yet 16, was adamant that said she,
too, was getting married and moving out.

''I was so depressed,'' Irma said. ''All I wanted was to pick up my stuff and
leave.''

Disillusioned and feeling abandoned, she attended her daughters' courthouse
weddings on a Wednesday but did not stick around for the weekend parties. She
made a quick round of goodbyes to her sister Raquel and another sister,
Veronica, who was also living illegally in San Antonio.

By Friday she was on her way back to Mexico with her youngest daughter,
passengers in a pickup truck that joined the exodus of immigrants who at some
point cross in the opposite direction to go back home. Even with the benefit of
having sisters nearby, the kind of support that many immigrants cannot do
without, Irma felt she could not stay without Mayra to give her a hand with the
driving, child care and other needs that can become particularly daunting for a
single mother.

She left one daughter her dining room set, washing machine and refrigerator; the
other got her living room set, king-size bed and two dressers.

''I doled out everything,'' Irma said. ''I cried so much because it took so much
sacrifice to avail myself of things and I had to get rid of them.''

Now all she has to show for her migration to the United States, she said, is the
heartache of separation.

Her youngest daughter, Lupita, and another daughter, who is married and has
three children, now live together just a few blocks from her. But the other two
are still in Texas, still illegally, now with one American-born child each.

The border is now a barrier between the Mexican and American sides of her
family, and now Irma feels the pull of her absent daughters. The older one has
faced her own marital troubles, and both of their families recently moved into
an uncle's house to share expenses. If some illness or emergency befell her
girls, Irma worries, she could not be there to help them.

''I still feel that I should be with them, supporting them,'' Irma said.
''They're still children.''

Back to the Old Neighborhood

  In sweltering heat one evening, with an ear out for ''Duel of Passions,'' the
telenovela on the television in the bedroom, Irma performed a culinary magic
trick. She transformed $5 in groceries into a meal of rice with corn, fried
potatoes and steamed nopales, cactus, with vegetables to feed two daughters,
three grandchildren and two visitors, and still have enough waiting for
Gilberto, a tractor-truck mechanic she fell in love with upon her return to
Monterrey.

''I always got my daughters used to the food from over here,'' she said,
perspiring heavily despite the gusts from a stand-up fan. ''They're 100 percent
Mexican. None of that pizza.''

Irma has taken up once again in her old neighborhood, a cluster of
lower-middle-class and poor homes at the foot of a mountain called Cerro de la
Silla, or Saddle Mountain, in this industrial city of 1.1 million.

The streets in Irma's insular world are lined with ficus trees, and the homes
are in varying stages of completion, giving the area the character of a work in
progress. Residents buy the land and then build their houses over time, evolving
at the pace of their means. Floors are still without tile and zinc roofs have
yet to be replaced with cement, though gang graffiti spreads faster than kudzu
on the exterior walls.

Irma works part time as a bar waitress and lives in the sparsely furnished home
she shares with Gilberto, 35, who makes $120 a week and foots most of the
couple's household expenses, including the $150 monthly rent. The house where
she lived before meeting Gilberto is still in disrepair, with partly exposed
rooms, missing walls and open sections of the roof. Her daughters still live
there, their clothes hanging from bare walls moist from the recent rains and the
sofas and light fixtures worn out or broken.

At first she stayed in her sister Raquel's second home, a large corner property
with an empty swimming pool and rental units, known as La Quinta, that her
family in Monterrey -- Irma's mother, a sister and four brothers -- used for
celebrations.

Then she set out to rehabilitate her old five-room house -- which she said her
estranged husband had been using ''as his little hotel'' for trysts with women
-- and bring her family back under one roof. But like a recurring nightmare, her
husband, whom she said she could not afford to divorce, still harassed her when
he came to visit his daughters.

More and more, her days here are filled with daydreaming about crossing back. A
six-hour drive is all that separates her from her daughters in San Antonio. But
Irma said she was stuck, with no money to pay for an illegal crossing and no
prospects for a tourist visa because she did not own property, hold a full-time
job or offer any evidence that she had ties to Mexico that would compel her to
return after a visit.

For now, the telephone must do. Twice-a-week calls from San Antonio are her only
connection to the life she once had. One morning in October, one of her
daughters, Mayra, called and Irma savored each word, careful to shield her own
emotions.

''It's been raining. Every day?'' she asked. To her delight, Mayra stayed on the
phone for more than two hours when her younger sister Lupita got on the line.

Adjusting to Mexico has been even tougher for Lupita, who turns 16 in December
and wears her blond hair waist-long and favors outfits that expose her midriff.
A drop earring cascades from her navel. She changed schools five times before
she dropped out and took a job in customer service and billing with a cellphone
company. Lupita hated the schedule of afternoon-only classes, and resented
having to pay for her textbooks, something unheard of in Texas.

''It makes me quite sad that she's not in high school,'' Irma said. ''I tell my
daughters, 'You don't have to struggle like me.' If I had studied, I'd be in an
office, not a bar.''

'Over There'

  Fanning herself with bare hands in the midday heat, Irma walks around a flea
market, casting a disdainful eye over the secondhand shoes, clothes and trinkets
spread out on blankets and tables, and sometimes in piles over the dirt of the
soccer field. She settles on a pair of bright yellow beach thongs for $1 for
herself and two pairs of jeans for Lupita.

She is starting over, from scratch. But she was not thrilled with today's finds.
''Over there you pay less and it's new,'' she said with authority about Texas.

She says it again and again. ''Over there'' -- that world that taught her what
she is missing. Irma knew only poverty when she went to San Antonio.

She left school at 12 to start work cleaning houses. At 17 she learned to sew
and worked in a factory. At 20, after three years of courtship, she married a
neighbor and began a new cycle of deprivation. It was the untenable marriage,
more than economic hardship, that compelled her to follow in the footsteps of
her sister Raquel, the first in her family to immigrate north and who remains
the family's mainstay in San Antonio.

A fading wedding picture in the living room of the home where her daughters live
shows the couple in posed embrace, with a darker-haired Irma in white gown and
long train and her mustachioed husband holding her by the waist. Irma said the
newlywed bliss lasted only two years. Her husband soon started cheating and
beating her, once even breaking her nose, she said.

At one point she left with the girls, staying with siblings and moving from
house to house. The husband would not give her economic support. Things got so
bad, she said, that twice she planned her suicide, but changed her mind when she
heard her daughters coming into the house.

''I was tired and desperate,'' she said of her marital situation. ''That wasn't
a life.''

Her daughter Mayra left for Texas first. The girl was driven across the border
with false identification papers. She went to live with her Aunt Raquel in San
Antonio and attended middle school there. Irma followed later, leaving her other
daughters in Monterrey.

''It went badly for me,'' she said of that first and toughest year in the north.
''I wasn't happy here or there. I had Mayra, who was my solace.''

Irma eventually found work as a seamstress, making military uniforms in a
maquiladora in San Antonio, a job that paid, by the piece, $400 to $500 in a
good week, and enabled her to send $200 to $300 home weekly. But when her family
sent word that her husband, a welder, had suffered a severe leg injury at work
and was dying and asking for her forgiveness, she returned to Monterrey. A month
later, he had recovered and she was back in San Antonio and at Raquel's, this
time with two more daughters in tow.

The maquiladora jobs had vanished, so she went to work cleaning and washing
dishes at a Mexican restaurant. She had been promoted to cook and substitute
restaurant manager, making $5.75 an hour, by the time the two daughters
announced their wedding plans.

A Chance Meeting

  Despite her sad eyes and unsmiling face, Irma presents a youthful exterior --
brown eyes under tattooed eyebrows, short honey-colored hair pinned back with
girlish barrettes, form-fitting tops over tight jeans, tattoos on her lower back
and left leg and upper arm. A victim of domestic violence by both her father and
husband, she said she had long stopped looking for a man.

Then last year, at a girlfriend's birthday party, she met Gilberto.

''We danced and we were giggling and all of a sudden we were kissing,'' she
said. Gilberto has kind eyes and a calm demeanor, but he also had a drinking
problem. Irma became his confidante, a supportive friend, but did not agree to
live with him, she said, until last summer, when she was convinced he had dealt
with his own demons.

Irma's days are now split between Gilberto, her work, her daughters, her
grandchildren and, increasingly, her longing for ''over there.''

She first found work cleaning in a factory for $80 a week. Last March she got a
better position as a waitress at a pool hall three days a week for $90. She
works Thursday through Saturday, the 3 p.m. to 2 a.m. shift, also getting up at
5 a.m. on weekdays to cook Gilberto's breakfast and pack him a lunch of rice
soup or potatoes with chorizo. She watches the news and then walks two blocks to
play with her grandchildren.

''The family-oriented lifestyle has not changed for me,'' said Irma, who prefers
a quiet home life after work, with the occasional outing to a karaoke bar or the
public swimming pool.

One afternoon, she walked her 6-year-old granddaughter, Briseiry, to school for
the United Nations World Food Day. Dressed as a strawberry, Briseiry performed
two dance numbers in the school yard, with classmates in grape and potato
costumes. Irma and her daughter Mireya laughed and clapped from the sidelines.

From the produce ranks, Briseiry flashed her grandmother a toothless smile, and
Irma smiled back with tenderness. But even in this revelry, she pointed out the
school's flaws -- the chairs without desks and bathrooms that lacked doors and
toilet lids.

''The differences are many,'' she said, comparing Monterrey with San Antonio.

Another American Grandchild

  Her brush with American life has made Irma less tolerant of the poverty, quick
to find fault with her surroundings. The urge to start over in Texas is the
strongest it has been since she returned. Her daughter Barbie gave birth to a
second child in December. Once again, Irma missed out on welcoming a new
grandchild. And as usual, Irma will wait for one of her sister Raquel's visits
to see pictures of her growing American family.

She has her fantasy return planned out. She would take Lupita and Gilberto with
her, get a higher-paying job at a restaurant, or cleaning houses, that would
allow her to help her daughters in Texas and send money to Mireya in Monterrey
to get a tourist visa.

Getting through the border, Irma noted, is not as daunting as coming up with the
$2,000 she said she would need to pay for fake identification papers and a
coyote to drive her through as his wife or sister. When she first crossed by car
in the late 1990s, as the coyote's ''wife,'' she paid only $500.

''Imagine that, together we'd need $4,000,'' Irma told Gilberto one night.

It would be easier to buy a car, he replied.

Another hope is that Irma's daughters in San Antonio, or maybe her sister
Raquel, would become citizens and sponsor her for permanent residency. But that
would be years away.

Sometimes Irma looks so melancholic that Gilberto asks if she has misgivings
about having returned. She tells him no, because she wouldn't have met him.

''I don't regret having come because, after so many years of being alone, I
found Gilberto, who treats me well, who loves me and takes care of me,'' she
says.

But that is only half the truth.

One Thursday afternoon, Irma left home shortly before 3 p.m. for her job at the
billiard hall, a short walk through a busy commercial area with restaurants,
tortillerias, clothing stores and auto repair shops.

A burly man yelled from across the avenue that he had the reconditioned
refrigerator she had been looking for. When she signaled ''how much?'' he held
up five fingers to signal 500 pesos, or about $50.

The rent was due, she said, so the purchase had to wait.

''That's why you don't get ahead here,'' Irma said of the low salaries. ''What
you make here in a week, over there you collect daily, even just cleaning up
yards.''

Irma's workplace is a bar with six pool tables and wall decor that ranges from
pictures of Pancho Villa to a calendar featuring topless women.

Three television sets are tuned to Animal Planet.

That night about a dozen men in their 20s and 30s focused on their game and $2
bets. Irma, in jeans and a sweater, moved about at a relaxed pace serving beer
and picking up empties from tables.

Most customers summoned her with an ''Irma, cerveza!'' Many greeted her with a
kiss. On busy nights, Irma and another waitress serve up to 200 patrons at a
time. No one tips like in Texas, where Irma sometimes ended the night at the
restaurant with an extra $40. She has to wait until Saturday to get paid for the
three days.

And it is, after all, a bar. ''The bad thing here is that people drink until
they crawl,'' she said. ''Over there, if they see you drunk, they don't sell to
you.''

During a break, sitting in a plastic chair and sipping a beer sent over by a
customer, she fought back tears as she pondered her future. A customer was
grilling meat over firewood in one corner for Irma and his friends. A childhood
friend, Antonio Flores, walked in and kissed her on the cheek.

''She was very good and very beautiful,'' Mr. Flores said, reminiscing of Irma
as a teenager.

Irma smiled in appreciation, but on this night, her cocoon in Monterrey felt
like a prison.

''If I had the money I'd leave today,'' she repeated, barely audible over the
ranchera playing on the jukebox.

Traditional Round Trip for Workers Is Becoming a One-Way Migration North
By MIREYA NAVARRO


  In the crossings at the United States' southern border, tens of thousands of
illegal Mexican immigrants head each year in the direction of Mexico. While no
statistics are kept on this reverse migration, researchers in both countries
suggest that the numbers have declined as border controls have tightened.

Returning Mexicans, researchers say, have generally been divided between
''sojourners,'' those with temporary or seasonal jobs in the United States who
cross once or more a year, and ''settlers,'' those who move to the United States
for an extended period but at some point choose to return home.

''The Mexican migration was always round trip,'' said Jorge Durand, director of
the Mexican Migration Project at the University of Guadalajara, a research
program in conjunction with the Office of Population Research at Princeton. ''It
was a migration of workers, not immigrants.''

But several factors are causing more illegal immigrants to stay in the United
States. Increasingly, immigrants are finding jobs away from the agricultural
sector, meaning they have more stable employment that is not subject to seasonal
ups and downs, researchers say. More immigrants have also moved to destinations
beyond the border states of the Southwest, making the journey back home longer,
more expensive and less convenient.

Most important, some researchers say, increased vigilance along the border has
led to higher costs and risks associated with crossing back into the United
States, disrupting what had been the traditional circular movement of the
migrants. Border enforcement began to tighten in the mid-1980s, but has become
much more vigorous since the Sept. 11 attacks.

''Having run the gantlet of enforcement resources at the border, migrants grew
reluctant to repeat the experience and hunkered down to stay, causing rates of
return migration to fall sharply,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a sociologist who
directs the Mexican Migration Project at Princeton.

Demetrios Papademetriou, president of the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonpartisan research group in Washington, said that ''the primary effect of
hardening the border has been one of locking people in.''

The 2005 census in Mexico counted 242,000 Mexicans who said they had lived in
the United States and had returned to Mexico from 2000 to 2005. By comparison, a
1992 survey counted 955,000 people who said they had returned in the previous
five years.

The average probability of return for illegal immigrants was 47 percent during
1979-84 but fell to 27 percent during 1997-2003, Mr. Massey said.

Such probability diminishes the longer the stay, researchers found.

Even sojourners, who are mostly young and male, have been extending their stay
in the United States, from an average of 5 1/2 months in the mid-'90s to more
than 12 months now, according to some research in Mexico.

Those immigrants most likely to return home, some studies suggest, have strong
family ties in Mexico or property and other investments. Some studies have found
the return rates are higher among men, the elderly and those with little
education.

Anecdotal evidence indicates that most go back to reunite with their families,
to invest savings and set up businesses, to retire or because they just gave up,
says Rodolfo Tuiran Gutierrez, a demographer and sociologist who served as
secretary general of the National Population Council, a government agency in
Mexico.

He said that unlike those making the journey north, Mexicans returning home face
no hurdles, easily flying, driving or even walking across the border.

Dr. Tuiran Gutierrez said those who returned often had to deal with negative
consequences of their migration, like split families and the lack of pensions or
Social Security benefits in Mexico because they did not work there. He and other
researchers said the decision to return usually came after migrants weighed the
costs of living in the United States against the benefits, not all of them
material.

At some point, for example, Mr. Durand said, making $8 an hour does not seem
worth the discrimination many face in the United States, or the stress of trying
to speak English.

''The moment comes when they say, 'What am I doing here?' '' Mr. Durand said.
''They look at quality of life and say, 'I'm better off in my homeland than in
the United States.' ''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THREE SISTERS/Chapter 3: Irma

GRAPHIC: Photos: After living illegally in San Antonio for more than six years,
Irma chose to move back to Monterrey, Mexico, a decision she often regrets.
(Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
GRANDCHILDREN IN TWO COUNTRIES -- Irma and her grandchildren Briseiry and Said
at her daughters' home in Monterrey. Two of Irma's four daughters live illegally
in Texas, and each has an American-born child. The older one has had marital
troubles, and both of their families recently moved into an uncle's house to
share expenses. Irma says of her daughters: ''I still feel that I should be with
them, supporting them. They're still children.''
SCHOOL DAYS -- Briseiry, right, who is 6, was dressed in a strawberry costume
for a school event that commemorated United Nations World Food Day.
THE CHILDHOOD HOME -- Mireya, one of Irma's sisters, standing in the doorway of
the one-room house their family grew up in. Nine children and their parents
shared the quarters, which are now being rented out to tenants. (Photographs by
MONICA ALMEIDA/The New York Times)(pg. A34)
 PART TIME AT THE POOL HALL -- Earlier this year, Irma got a job as a waitress
at a pool hall three days a week for $90. Irma said patrons of the Monterrey bar
do not tip like those in Texas, where she sometimes ended the night at her
restaurant job with an extra $40. ''The bad thing here is that people drink
until they crawl,'' she said. ''Over there, if they see you drunk, they don't
sell to you.'' (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A35)Map of
Mexico highlighting Monterrey. (pg. A34)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 27, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Founding Illegals

BYLINE: By William Hogeland; Thomas L. Friedman and Maureen Dowd are off today..

William Hogeland is the author of ''The Whiskey Rebellion: George Washington,
Alexander Hamilton and the Frontier Rebels Who Challenged America's Newfound
Sovereignty.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 644 words


EVERY nation is a nation of immigrants. Go back far enough and you'll find us
all, millions of potential lives, tucked in the DNA of our African mother, Lucy.
But the immigrant experience in the United States is justly celebrated, and
perhaps no aspect of that experience is more quintessentially American than our
long heritage of illegal immigration.

You wouldn't know it from the immigration debate going on all year (the
bipartisan immigration bill-in-progress, announced this week, is unlikely to
mention it), but America's pioneer values developed in a distinctly illegal
context. In 1763, George III drew a line on a map stretching from modern-day
Maine to modern-day Georgia, along the crest of the Appalachians. He declared it
illegal to claim or settle land west of the line, all of which he reserved for
Native Americans.

George Washington, a young colonel in the Virginia militia, instructed his
land-buying agents in the many ways of getting around the law. Although
Washington was not alone in acquiring forbidden tracts, few were as energetic in
the illegal acquisition of western land. And Washington was a model of decorum
compared to Ethan Allen, a rowdy from Connecticut who settled with his brothers
in a part of the Green Mountains known as the Hampshire Grants (later known as
''Vermont''). The province of New York held title to the land, but Allen
asserted his own kind of claim: He threw New Yorkers out, Tony Soprano style,
then offered to sell their lots to what he hoped would be a flood of fellow
illegals from Connecticut.

Meanwhile, illegal pioneers began moving across the Alleghenies and into the
upper Ohio Valley, violating the king's 1763 proclamation and a few more
besides. (George would today be accused of softness on immigration; he kept
shifting the line westward.) Immigrants from such declasse spots as Germany and
Ireland violated the laws and settled where they pleased. The upper Ohio was
rife with illegal immigrants, ancestors of people who, in country clubs today,
are implying a Mayflower ancestry.

Parallels to today's illegal immigration are striking. Then as now, it was
potentially deadly to bring a family across the line. But once across, illegals
had a good chance of avoiding arrest and settling in. Border patrols, in the
forms of the British Army and provincial militias, were stretched thin. The
18th-century forest primeval, like a modern city, offered ample opportunities
for getting lost. Complex economies thrived in the virgin backwoods, unfettered
by legitimate property titles.

When conflicts developed between the first and second waves of illegals, some
salient social ironies arose, too. By the early 1770's, George Washington had
amassed vast tracts to which his titles were flatly invalid. The Revolution
rectified that. With British law void, Washington emerged from the war with his
titles legal by default. But he acquired another problem: low-class illegals
were squatting on his newly authenticated, highly valuable property.

Washington harbored no fond feeling for breakers of laws that he too had
recently flouted. ''It is hard upon me,'' he lamented without irony, ''to have
property which has been fairly obtained disputed and withheld.'' He went to
court to have the squatters evicted, complaining that they had ''not taken those
necessary steps pointed out by the law.'' He was appealing to righteousness from
atop a high but wobbly horse.

Descendants of the great immigration experiences of the 19th and 20th centuries
visit the Ellis Island Immigration Museum to learn of the tribulations of
ancestors who risked much to become Americans. Those of us whose ancestors
risked everything as illegal immigrants, and in the process helped found a
nation, owe our forebears a debt of gratitude, too. Without their daring
disregard of immigration laws, we might not be here today.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; PERSONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1109 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Like many illegal immigrants, Javier Huete did not dare plan a trip home for the
holidays for fear he would not be able to re-enter the United States. But he was
able to see his mother, in-laws and cousins in Honduras anyway thanks to
videoconferencing services provided at an Order Express storefront in Houston.

A check-cashing and money-transfer company based in Michoacan, Mexico, Order
Express has been offering videoconferencing at a dozen of its 300 locations
throughout the United States and Latin America.

Mr. Huete, a delivery truck driver, said in Spanish, ''I talk to my family on
the phone all the time, but with this they can see the children.''

During the 40-minute videoconference with a dozen of his relatives assembled at
an Order Express in Honduras, Mr. Huete's infant daughter squirmed in his lap
and his 4-year-old daughter stood with her nose nearly touching a 60-inch
flat-screen TV on which the image of her teary-eyed grandmother cooed ''Que
bonita!'' or ''How beautiful!'' Normally, a half-hour visit costs $40, but he
got an extra 10 minutes because there was trouble hooking him up initially.

Because of stricter border enforcement since 9/11, increased broadband access
and reduced cost of video equipment, more businesses are offering
videoconferencing services to reunite immigrants with their families back home.
Typically found in or near places immigrants frequent like money-transfer
operations or consular offices, these kinds of services are often reserved for
weeks in advance. ''I'm booked Dec. 20 through Jan. 1,'' said Ivan Fernando
Rojas, owner of a small videoconferencing business in Bay Shore, N.Y., called A
Tu Alcance, which means Reach Out.

Such businesses are often run by immigrants like Mr. Rojas who is from Colombia:
''I know how it feels being in a country without your family.'' He started A Tu
Alcance in 2004 with money he saved from cleaning office buildings: ''I got the
idea 12 years ago when I was dusting videoconference equipment in an office.''
But back then, the technology cost $10,000 to $20,000. Today, a complete
videoconference setup costs as little as $2,000, according to Laura Shay,
director for marketing at Polycom, a leading brand.

While no one keeps track of the number of videoconferencing businesses marketing
their services to immigrants, sales representatives at companies like Polycom
report increased inquiries and purchases for the applications. ''This was not a
successful business model until recently because now you have both the
affordability of the equipment as well as the wider availability of Internet
cable connections which you need to have on both sides, here and there,'' said
Charlie Macli, senior vice president for sales and marketing at IVCi, a provider
of video communications and network services in Hauppauge, N.Y.

Though most videoconferencing businesses tend to be small single-shop
operations, a company called AmigoLatino has locations in eight cities with
large Hispanic immigrant communities including New York, Los Angeles, Chicago
and Miami. It also has affiliate offices in eight Latin American countries as
well as in Spain. Moreover, AmigoLatino oversees videoconferencing operations at
Order Express shops like the one in Houston where Mr. Huete linked up with his
family in Honduras.

Founded in 2002 by Gabriel Biguria and a small group of private investors,
AmigoLatino caters mostly to Spanish-speaking immigrants. ''It would work
equally well for immigrants from Asia or Africa but the time difference would be
a challenge,'' said Mr. Biguria, who is from Guatemala but holds an M.B.A. from
the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. He formerly worked
in marketing and sales for Hewlett-Packard and several Silicon Valley start-ups.

''There's incredibly high demand for this kind of service,'' particularly given
Hispanic culture's traditional emphasis on family togetherness, said Raul
Hinojosa-Ojeda, professor for international development and Chicano and Chicana
studies at the University of California, Los Angeles. His mobile banking
services company, No Borders, offered videoconferencing between sites in the
United States and Latin America for two years before it spun off that part of
the business in 2005 to a concern in Pueblo, Mexico, called Creative Networks.

Creative Networks links personal computers at a dozen affiliates in the United
States to a Latin American network of Internet cafes with broadband access, Mr.
Hinojosa-Ojeda said. The owner of Creative Networks, Sergio Garnelo, could not
be reached for comment.

Hispanic immigrants typically do not have computers at home much less have the
kind of high-end computers and broadband access necessary for clear live video
transmission and reception.

''The way most PCs allocate power to images is less than what you need to get
really good quality,'' said Elliot Gold, president of Telespan, a company that
provides market analysis of the teleconferencing and videoconferencing industry.
''The image gets really grainy when you blow it up on a large screen.''
Specialized videoconferencing equipment, he said, is usually best to get an
experience that ''the other person is in the room with you.''

And that is what homesick immigrants like Mr. Huete in Houston want. ''It's good
to feel as if the family is in the same place,'' he said. Many times, immigrants
set up a videoconference to mark a special occasion. For example, Mr. Rojas in
Bay Shore said families in two countries assemble before video screens to
celebrate birthdays, engagements and 50th wedding anniversaries. They sit
around, talk, eat cake and drink wine. One customer recently scheduled a
videoconference to show her mother in El Salvador the gown she was going wear at
her wedding. ''I cry 9 times out of 10,'' Mr. Rojas said.

The cost of these kinds of virtual reunions ranges from $80 to $120 an hour
depending on the Latin American country. This is far less than at places like
FedEx Kinkos, which charges $265 to $350 and requires the party in Latin America
to provide its own equipment since the chain, which offers business services,
does not have locations there.

While still expensive for many immigrants, most say the service is worth it. ''I
was able to see my auntie and uncle,'' said Blanca Leticia Pineda de Juarez, a
nanny in Los Angeles who left Guatemala 15 years ago. She had not seen them
since then and she was able to introduce them to her infant daughter recently
during a videoconference at AmigoLatino's Los Angeles office.

''It made me feel so good,'' she said in a telephone interview. ''I'm definitely
going to do it again.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Alcalde, top, moves closer to the 60-inch screen during a
videoconference with his mother, Dora, who lives in Pereira, Colombia. Other
family members were clearly enjoying the exchange, half of which took place in
Bay Shore, N.Y. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 19, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jury Spares Driver in Smuggling Deaths Case

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL; Maureen Balleza contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 619 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 18


The truck driver who carried 19 illegal immigrants to their deaths in his
suffocating trailer in 2003 was spared execution on Thursday and sentenced
instead to life in prison without parole.

In a punishment verdict after five days of deliberations, the federal jury that
last month convicted the driver, Tyrone M. Williams, on all charges in the
nation's deadliest human smuggling case rejected the government's calls for the
death penalty but meted out the stiffest possible life sentence.

Mr. Williams, who turned 36 on Thursday, reacted with impassivity but was hugged
by his lawyers. His lead counsel, Craig Washington, wept -- ''tears of joy,'' he
later said.

The foreman of the jury of seven women and five men said outside court that the
death penalty had not been a close call.

''We felt as a consensus, as a jury, he didn't deserve it,'' said the foreman,
an airline worker and one of three jurors who agreed to be interviewed afterward
but insisted that their names not be disclosed.

The United States attorney in Houston, Don DeGabrielle, said prosecutors
respected the verdict.

''We did everything we could to encourage them to impose a sentence of death,''
Mr. DeGabrielle said, adding that ''19 sentences of life imprisonment were not
something to be disappointed about.''

On one count of conspiracy, the jury left it up to Judge Lee H. Rosenthal to
impose sentence. She set Aug. 23 for a sentencing hearing.

The lead prosecutor, Daniel C. Rodriguez, presented anguished testimony of
survivors and argued that Mr. Williams was the only one who could have saved the
victims. But Mr. Washington repeatedly questioned why Mr. Williams, the only
major African-American defendant among the ring of human smugglers, should be
singled out for execution when co-conspirators made deals to testify for the
government.

Mr. Williams was convicted on Dec. 4 of all 58 counts of human smuggling. Mr.
Washington said he would appeal.

A first trial ended in March 2005 with the jury's finding of guilty on 38 counts
but deadlocking on 20 others, including some eligible for death. The incomplete
verdict was thrown out by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit.

Evidence in both trials showed that Mr. Williams, a milk trucker and small-time
drug dealer from Schenectady, N.Y., was recruited to transport at least 73
illegal immigrants from Harlingen past a Border Patrol checkpoint, where they
were to be transferred to a van and a pickup. But the other vehicles were
blocked, and Mr. Williams was told to drive toward Houston.

With the passengers punching air holes in the sweltering trailer, Mr. Williams
halted in Victoria, about 100 miles southwest of Houston, where he opened the
trailer's doors, provided bottles of water and fled.

Along with the bodies of 19 victims, two of whom died later in the hospital,
rescuers found 54 survivors. Some others may have escaped.

In his final prosecution arguments in the sentencing phase, Mr. Rodriguez said
Mr. Williams had committed ''acts of violence'' by using what he called ''in
essence an unplugged refrigerator to transport these people.'' He said Mr.
Williams had been motivated by ''the oldest reason in the world, greed.''

Mr. Washington, in his closing arguments, portrayed Mr. Williams as concerned
about his riders once he realized their plight.

''I think the question is intent,'' he said, arguing that the government had not
proved ''that Tyrone intended to kill these poor souls.''

And he said of the smuggling ringleaders: ''Why aren't they facing the death
penalty? They're all part of the conspiracy.''

Jurors said they began each session of deliberations with 19 seconds of silence
-- one for each victim.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tyrone M. Williams, rear, leaving court after being sentenced.
(Photo by David J. Phillip/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dallas Suburb Amends Its Ban on Renting to Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By GRETEL C. KOVACH

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, Jan. 24


The City Council of a Dallas suburb has revised its proposed ban on renting
apartments to illegal immigrants to allow landlords to rent to families with
mixed citizenship or residency status.

But the proposal in the suburb, Farmers Branch, is being challenged in court and
requires the approval of voters in May before it takes effect.

The Council voted, 5 to 0, on Monday night for the revised ordinance after more
than two hours of public testimony. It allows landlords to rent to families with
a head of household or a spouse who has legal residency or citizenship, and it
exempts minors from mandatory document checks.

The proposal has prompted emotional debate in Farmers Branch, with advocates of
either side accusing the other side of being un-American.

Councilman Ben Robinson said the ordinance was necessary.

''If we permit this kind of invasion to continue,'' Mr. Robinson said, ''we'll
be no different than Iraq, with various factions owing allegiance to their
group.''

The ban was to take effect earlier this month, but a judge issued a restraining
order after city officials were accused of violating a state open-meetings law.
Other lawsuits say the effort is unconstitutional. Opponents also say the
ordinance has hurt local businesses by driving Hispanics from the city.

Councilman Tim O'Hare, who introduced the ban, said lawyers had recommended the
revision to strengthen the city's legal position. Mr. O'Hare said he had
proposed the idea because residents had told him that illegal immigration was
causing a ''huge problem'' in the city.

''People are upset that the law is not being upheld,'' Mr. O'Hare said.

Elizabeth Villafranca, 43, and other volunteers with the group Let the Voters
Decide said they were starting a voter registration campaign to try to defeat
the ordinance.

''They're trying to send a message that minorities aren't welcome,'' said Ms.
Villafranca, adding that she had been told to ''go back to Mexico,'' even though
she was born in the United States.

Mayor Bob Phelps said that although his city was taking steps to curb illegal
immigration, the effort should begin with the federal government. ''Walls,
fences, that's not going to solve the problem,'' he said. ''It's got to start
from Washington.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 26, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Raid Draws Protest From Labor Officials

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 701 words


An immigration raid at a huge North Carolina pork-packing plant provoked
protests yesterday from union officials, who said the company, Smithfield Foods,
had collaborated with the authorities searching for illegal immigrants to
discourage its workers from organizing.

The dispute arose after Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested 21
workers on Wednesday morning at the plant, in Tar Heel, about 80 miles south of
Raleigh. The workers, 18 Mexicans and 3 Guatemalans, were in this country
illegally and will be deported, immigration officials said.

Smithfield executives said the immigration agents informed them on Tuesday that
they would be coming to question the immigrants. They said they had been working
with the immigration agency since July to verify that the 5,200 employees at the
plant had legal employment and immigration documents.

Dennis Pittman, a Smithfield spokesman, said the arrests caused no disruption at
the plant, one of the largest pork factories in the world, which processes as
many as 32,000 hogs in a day. ''There were no helicopters or buses or even
anybody in uniforms,'' Mr. Pittman said. ''It was done in an orderly,
professional fashion.''

He said the raid was not related to a bitter standoff that began more than a
decade ago between the plant and the United Food and Commercial Workers Union,
which is seeking to represent the workers.

Gene Bruskin, an organizer for the union, said the company had started to
cooperate closely with immigration authorities after a walkout by immigrant
workers last summer. ''My concern is the company is using the immigration issue
to manipulate this long fight over workers' rights,'' Mr. Bruskin said.

Tension over the workers' immigration status has been running high at the plant
since November, when more than 500 employees stayed away for two days after the
company fired about 50 workers it said had used false Social Security numbers
when they were hired. The walkout was unusual for a nonunion plant.

The company agreed to reinstate the workers and gave them 60 days to correct
errors in their employment forms or present new documents to verify their
identities and legal immigration status. About 48 percent of the plant's
employees describe themselves as Hispanic, Mr. Pittman said, and 37 percent are
African-American.

After conducting a review last summer, Mr. Pittman said, the company found
discrepancies between the documents presented by 540 employees and the records
of the Social Security Administration. The company told those workers that they
would have to produce valid documents or face firing, he said.

Smithfield has been cooperating with a program in which the company vets its
labor force and shares the results with the immigration agency, in exchange for
some protection from disruptive, surprise immigration raids.

Immigration officials said they questioned the 21 employees on suspicion of
links to criminal activity. Ultimately they were charged only with civil
immigration violations. Matthew Allen, a senior immigration investigations
official, said no criminal charges were planned.

Earlier this month, the union helped organize a petition drive by workers asking
to take Martin Luther King's Birthday off as a paid holiday. More than 300
employees did not go to work that day, Jan. 15.

Mr. Pittman said it was not clear that the increased absences were a direct
result of the union campaign.

Mr. Bruskin, the union organizer, said Smithfield had a history of threatening
immigrants with deportation if they tried to unionize. The union has organized a
national campaign to discourage consumers from buying Smithfield products.

The Tar Heel plant held elections in 1994 and 1997 to determine if the workers
wanted to join the union. The union lost, but last May a federal appeals court
threw out the 1997 election, finding that the company had engaged in ''intense
and widespread coercion'' to block the union.

Stepping up enforcement actions nationwide, the immigration agency also deported
more than 750 immigrants this week who were arrested in roundups in Los Angeles.
More than 150 of the immigrants were fugitives from deportation proceedings,
officials said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 27, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: 3 Illegal Immigrants Die Of Exposure

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 131 words


Three illegal immigrants have been found dead from exposure to the cold in the
past few days in Duval County, in the southern part of the state, sheriff's
officials said. The immigrants were found wearing light, rain-soaked clothing
during a period when nighttime temperatures had been dipping to 34 degrees,
Cmdr. Romeo Ramirez of the sheriff's office said. A 22-year-old woman from
Nicaragua was found early Wednesday in brush on private ranch land after other
immigrants told officials that she had been unable to keep up with them. A
28-year-old woman from El Salvador was found around 4 p.m. on Wednesday under a
bridge north of Route 16. And Border Patrol agents found a man from El Salvador
around 4 a.m. on Thursday in brush about a mile from where the first body had
been found.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite Crackdown, Migrants Stream Into South Mexico

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1180 words

DATELINE: TAPACHULA, Mexico


Four Salvadoran men in jeans and T-shirts trudged along the railroad tracks
under a hot sun, their steps carrying them steadily toward a fuzzy but seductive
dream.

They had been in Mexico for only a few hours and already federal police officers
had forced them to strip and had taken almost all their cash, they said. They
had some 1,500 miles to go to reach the United States border, with no food or
water and $9 each.

They intended to walk along the Chiapas coast for the first 250 miles through a
dozen towns where migrants are regularly robbed or raped. Then they planned to
clamber aboard a freight train with hundreds of other immigrants for the trip
north, a dangerous journey that has left hundreds before them maimed after they
fell under the wheels.

''It's dangerous, yes, one risks one's life,'' said one of the men, Noe
Hernandez. ''One risks it if you have a family member in the States to help you.
It's not just for fun we go through Mexico.''

A month ago, Mexico's new president, Felipe Calderon, announced measures to slow
the flow of illegal immigrants across Mexico's southern border and reduce crime
in this lush but impoverished region. He stepped up the presence of soldiers and
federal police here, told of plans for a guest worker program and promised joint
state and federal operations to catch illegal immigrants.

But much remains to be done to stop or deter the migrants, and for now the
measures have had little effect. Social workers and volunteers who aid the
migrants say they keep coming.

Every three days, 300 to 500 Central Americans swarm the freight train in
Arriaga, strapping themselves with ropes or belts to the tops of cars or riding
between the wagons, they say.

The migrants still wade across the Suchiate River between Guatemala and Mexico
with little hindrance. Corruption is rampant. Soldiers and police officers on
the Mexican side extort money from the migrants but seldom turn them around, aid
workers and migrants said.

''It's an open border,'' said Francisco Aceves Verdugo, a supervisor in the
government agency, Grupos Beta, that gives food, water and medicine to illegal
migrants. ''We are confronting a monster so big in the form of corruption that
we aren't doing anything.''

The federal authorities do catch and deport illegal immigrants from Central
America on their trek north -- about 170,000 last year, according to Leticia
Rodriguez, a spokeswoman for the National Migration Institute.

On the evening of Jan. 19, as part of Mr. Calderon's new get-tough policy, about
400 federal police officers stopped the freight train just after it left Arriaga
and arrested more than 100 immigrants who had climbed aboard.

Still, aid workers say a majority gets through. The biggest deterrent, migrants
say, is not federal authorities but armed thugs who waylay them along the
railroad tracks or on paths through the countryside used to avoid the
immigration posts along the main highway.

This month, Misael Mejia, 27, from Comayagua, Honduras, was awaiting the train
in Arriaga with nine other young men from his town. They had walked for 11 days
after wading across the Suchiate to get to the railhead in Arriaga.

None of them had a dime after being ambushed a week before by three men in ski
masks in daylight near Huehuetan. Two of the men carried machetes, the third a
machine gun.

''They told us to lay down and take off our clothes,'' Mr. Mejia said. ''I lost
my watch, about 500 Honduran lempiras, and 40 Mexican pesos,'' about $31.

Mr. Mejia said he would press on. He has a brother in Arizona who has promised
to pick him up if he can run the gantlet through the United States border
patrol. He left a $200-a-month job as a driver behind, along with his wife. His
brother makes $700 a week as a carpenter.

''I felt hopeless in Honduras,'' he said. ''Because I could never afford a
house, not even a car. There is nothing I could have.''

Down the street from the tracks, at the Hearth of Mercy shelter, where illegal
immigrants can get a free hot meal and medicine, Juan Antonio Cruz, 16, hunched
over a bowl of rice and told how he had left El Salvador after members of the
Mara Salvatrucha street gang had threatened to kill him. ''They wanted me to
join them,'' he said.

It was his second attempt to reach Arizona, he said. The first time he had
endured eight freezing nights and sweltering days aboard the train by strapping
his belt to bar atop a tanker car. The border patrol caught him as he crossed
into Nogales, Ariz., and sent him back home to Usulutan, where the gang members
threatened him again.

''When I think about the train, I feel fear and panic, for the thieves who
attack you, and also for falling off,'' he said softly.

For some, that is how the dream ends, with a fall under the train's heavy,
whirring wheels.

At the Shelter of Jesus the Good Pastor in Tapachula, Donar Antonio Ramirez
Espinas rubbed the bandaged stumps of his legs, sheared off above the knee, as
he recalled the night of March 26, 2004, when he dozed off while riding between
cars, lost his grip and fell onto the tracks.

''I fell face down, and at first I didn't think anything had happened,'' he
said. ''When I turned over, I saw, I realized, that my feet didn't really
exist.''

Back in Honduras, he had been working menial jobs in a parking lot and at a
medical warehouse, making about $120 a month. Then he and a few buddies decided
to try their luck in the States.

''You make the decision to look for a better life, not to continue with the life
your father led, and for this you risk your life, without knowing that you could
end up like this,'' he said. ''An amputee.''

After the accident, he spent two years at the shelter in Tapachula, wrestling
with depression and thoughts of suicide. When those black days finally passed,
he returned home for five months, only to find his parents, his former wife and
even his three children had trouble accepting his disability. ''My 9-year-old
said, 'Papa, why did you come back like this?' '' he remembered. ''I didn't dare
answer him.''

Mr. Ramirez has returned to the shelter here, where he hopes to learn a trade --
fashioning prosthetic legs and arms for other victims of the train. Others at
the shelter told similar stories. Some doubted they would be able to make a
living in their home countries, where even getting a wheelchair is hard.

But some of those with lesser injuries insisted their accident was just a
temporary setback. Minor Estuardo Cortez, 33, from Guatemala, lost his left foot
under a train wheel while climbing aboard in Oaxaca State. At the shelter, he
has healed and learned to walk with a prosthetic foot. He intends to continue
his journey. If he reaches Houston, he says, he has relatives who can get him a
construction job.

''If something happens to me, I don't scare easy,'' he said. ''I'll do it again
to see who wins, the train or me. Only thing is I can't run, so I'll have to
wait until it's stopped to get on.''


  (Photographs by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)

Map of Mexico highlighting Tapachula.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Central Americans, possessions on their backs, run to hop a
moving train in Arriaga. Hundreds have been maimed falling off the train.
Donar Antonio Ramirez Espinas of Honduras hopped the train in Arriaga in 2004,
dozed off one night, lost his grip and fell underneath it. ''You make the
decision to look for a better life,'' he said, ''without knowing that you could
end up like this.''
Migrants often begin an illegal journey to the United States by wading across
the Suchiate River and hiking along the coast to Arriaga.
 Hondurans wait for a train in Arriaga, Mexico, one stop on a 1,500-mile journey
across Mexico to the United States. For many Central Americans, the pursuit of
an American dream outweighs the risks.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 4, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Run! Hide! The Illegal Border Crossing Experience

BYLINE: By PATRICK O'GILFOIL HEALY

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; HEADS UP HIDALGO, MEXICO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1112 words


CLAD in black clothes and moonlight, our guide Poncho adjusted his ski mask and
faced us to speak. The desert has claimed many lives, he said, but tonight we
would make it across the border.

The night was crisp and clear in the central Mexican highlands, the moon
illuminating mesquite trees, cactus and pastures. Our group of 13 was about to
set out on one of Mexico's more bizarre tourist attractions: a make-believe trip
illegally crossing the Rio Grande from Mexico into the United States.

''Where are you going to, my friends?'' Poncho asked the people clustered around
him.

''To Texas,'' a skinny Mexican teenager replied.

''And you?'' he asked another man.

''California.''

The four-hour caminata nocturna -- nighttime hike -- traverses desert, hills,
brambles and riverbeds in the Parque EcoAlberto, an eco-park communally owned by
the Hnahnu Indians who live on some 3,000 acres of land in the state of Hidalgo,
about three hours northwest of Mexico City (and roughly 700 miles from the
border).

Organizers say they opened the park about two and a half years ago, with
financing from the Mexican government, and began the caminata as a way to offer
tourists a taste of life as an illegal immigrant.

The Hnahnus are people who know something about that life. Of the approximately
2,200 Hnahnus from this area, 700 live in Mexico and 1,500 live ''on the other
side'' -- mostly in Las Vegas and other parts of Nevada, where they install
drywall, drive trucks or work on farms, residents say. Many of the tour guides
here have crossed the real border several times.

''Being an immigrant isn't a source of pride,'' said Poncho, whose real name is
Alfonso Martinez. ''We abandon the family, the language, the earth. We lose our
sense of community. The idea here is to raise people's consciousness about what
immigrants go through.''

Of course, compared with actually crossing the border, the caminata is as
watered down as an airport cocktail. The guides don't desert their groups, and
the most danger visitors face is twisting an ankle or walking into a low-hanging
tree branch.

The idea of tourists' aping illegal immigrants can seem crass, like Marie
Antoinette playing peasant on the grounds of Versailles. But the guides describe
the caminata as an homage to the path immigrants have beaten across the border.
And the park's approach to consciousness-raising is novel, but not completely
unique. In 2000, the humanitarian group Doctors Without Borders set up a camp of
tents, medical stations and latrines in Central Park to recreate the setting of
a refugee camp. Last year, the refugee-camp project returned to New York and
also traveled to Atlanta and Nashville.

Park guides say about 3,000 tourists -- mostly Mexican -- have hiked the
caminata since it began in July 2004. It costs 200 pesos (about $18 at 11 pesos
to the dollar), and tourists who want to stick around at the park can also go
river-rafting, rappel down a cliff and sleep in cabins with roofs of maguey
leaves. But guides say the mock border-crossing is the park's main draw.

''Of course it's just a game, where you're always safe and where there are no
real fights,'' said Antonio Flores, a sociology professor from Queretaro, in
central Mexico, who hiked the caminata in November with a group of students.
''It was very interesting, very important. Often, immigration is a subject so
far away. This gave us a chance to experience it through our own steps.''

My group's hike began outside a white stucco church, where we huddled around
Poncho and another masked guide, Luis Santiago. About 10 Hnahnus accompanied us
on the walk, playing the role of fellow immigrants. The men explained they were
heading north to look for work. A woman carrying a 2-year-old girl slung in a
shawl said she was seeking her boyfriend.

After unfurling the Mexican flag and singing the national anthem, the guides
organized us, telling us to walk in a file, strongest in back, weakest and
slowest in front.

''In the night, everyone is equal,'' Poncho said. ''Here, everyone wins, not
just the fastest or smartest. If we make it, we all make it; if they catch one,
they catch us all.''

They advised us to be brave, to remember our ancestors and to hit the ground if
we heard gunshots.

We'd been walking down a gravel road for 10 minutes when people started shouting
and tearing off into the dark. ''Vamos rapido!'' they shouted. ''Vamos
corriendo! Hasta el puente! Apurense!'' (''Let's get moving! To the bridge! Get
going!'') Behind us, headlights and the police drew nearer.

''Run!'' Mr. Santiago shouted, frantically directing us toward a concrete bridge
at the bottom of the sloping road. ''Shut off that light, they're coming. Fast,
fast. Damn it, shut off that light!''

Sirens whooped. We scrambled down a hill of loose dirt, tripping and stumbling
over rocks and gouges in the ground. We ended up in a mire along the Tula River,
ankle-deep in mud and water.

A 5-year-old boy known as El Relleno showed up and guided us through the brush.

''Come on, this way,'' he said, jumping around moonlit puddles.

Poncho shooed us into a thicket of bush. We'd nearly been discovered by the
Border Patrol. We hid as men with flashlights roamed the field in front of us,
taunting us in Spanish and accented English.

''Come here, guys,'' they said. ''Ya se que estan escondidos. We know you're
hiding. We're going to send you back to Mexico.''

''Escuchen!'' said another, telling us to listen up. ''No van a cruzar el rio.
You're not going to get across the river.''

Suddenly, someone from our group darted from the bushes and past the guards.

''Stop! Stop!'' yelled the guards, and fired a half-dozen shots (blanks, of
course). ''Where you running, huh?''

About 70 Hnahnus make part of their living as guides, guards or fellow
immigrants on the hike. One of them, Purificacion Alvarez, said that visitors
often walked away stunned.

''They learn to value the liberty they have in their own countries, that they
don't have to run and be chased in their own lives,'' she said.

When the smell of gunfire dissipated, we sneaked away, crossing cornfields,
passing drowsy mules and slipping under barbed-wire fences. Brown moths darted
in and out of the flashlight beams, and the guides philosophized about the
significance of the hike, the empathy it aims to teach.

At one point, we paused at the river's edge, where Mr. Santiago told us to cast
a stone into the water to symbolically expel evil spirits. We did, and then
Poncho pointed up at the night sky.

''Look up,'' he said. ''A rain of stars. This is a magical place.''

Parque EcoAlberto, (52-75) 9727-7016; www.parqueecoalberto.com.mx.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Parque EcoAlberto, ''Poncho'' (in mask) and tourists evade
the Border Patrol as they simulate an illegal crossing. (Photo by Adriana
Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)Map of Mexico highlighting Parque Eco
Alberto.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Slain In an Attack in Arizona

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 622 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 8


Three illegal immigrants were shot to death, three were wounded and others were
missing Thursday near Tucson after gunmen accosted them as they traveled north
from the Mexican border, the authorities said.

The shootings came a day after gunmen in ski masks and carrying assault-style
rifles robbed 18 people who had illegally crossed the border 70 miles to the
south, near Sasabe. On Jan. 28 a man driving illegal immigrants from the border
several miles from the scene of Thursday's killings was ambushed and shot to
death as the immigrants fled.

The federal and local authorities were investigating whether the spate of
shootings was related.

Illegal immigrants crossing the Mexican border often encounter bandits, armed
civilian patrols and rival smugglers bent on robbing or stopping them.

The violence has been particularly acute in Arizona, which in recent years has
become the busiest crossing area for illegal immigrants.

The latest shooting appeared to be the work of bandits, law enforcement
officials said, though they said they had not ruled anything out.

Investigators were still piecing together what had happened, but they said they
believed that the gunmen had opened fire on the travelers, apparently all from
Guatemala, about 7 a.m. along a known smuggling route in a remote area near a
mine 20 miles northwest of Tucson.

Their pickup truck crashed, and two of the immigrants, a young man and a
teen-age girl, were found inside, dead from gunshot wounds, said Alonzo Pena,
the agent in charge of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Arizona.

The gunmen forced the other immigrants into another vehicle and left, dropping
off the wounded, including one person found dead later, along their way, Mr.
Pena said. The others who were left were a woman with a gunshot wound in the
neck, a 15-year-old girl and a man shot in the fingers.

The man with the hand wound hiked to a nearby mine, and workers there helped him
call the police.

Mr. Pena said the authorities were trying to determine how many had been in the
group of immigrants and how many were still missing. He said it appeared the
smuggler driving the illegal immigrants and a guide had either escaped or were
among the group taken captive.

The Associated Press, quoting officials of the Pima County Sheriff's Department,
said six or seven immigrants had left with the gunmen.

''There have been similar cases where undocumented migrants have been taken to a
location and relatives in Mexico contacted and extortion took place,'' Rick
Kastigar, the criminal investigations chief for the sheriff's department, told
The A.P.

Mr. Pena said the increase in border security in the past year, including scores
of additional Border Patrol agents assisted by National Guard troops, had
prompted more immigrants to employ smugglers commanding ever higher prices.

The going rate is about $3,000, or higher for trips from Central America, for a
guide to lead immigrants by foot across the Mexican border or in a vehicle,
usually through treacherous terrain.

Some smuggling rings, rather than risk capture at the border, have chosen to rob
rivals, leading to violence.

''Smugglers look at them as a commodity, a product, and in some cases they would
rather rip off a load and try to extort money instead of taking the risk to
smuggle,'' Mr. Pena said.

The Border Patrol's Tucson sector has reported that arrests of illegal aliens
dropped 11 percent last year and is down 9 percent since October compared with
the previous year. Officials at the agency have attributed the decline to
additional manpower and newly installed fencing, cameras and sensors deterring
crossers, though advocates for immigrants suggest that traffic may have shifted
elsewhere.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A body lay in the bed of a pickup in the desert yesterday near
Tucson. (Photo by A. E. Araiza/Arizona Daily Star, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 10, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Immigrant Injured In Attack Is Charged
With Smuggling

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 134 words


An illegal immigrant injured in an ambush on a group of people crossing the
border on Thursday has been charged with smuggling, the federal customs agency
said. The immigrant, Pedro Luis Beltran-Camargo, 21, was shot in the hand in the
attack. He was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents after
survivors of the attack identified him as their smuggler, said Lauren Mack, a
spokeswoman for the agency. Mr. Beltran-Camargo, who is from Mexico, sought help
from the authorities and was treated at a hospital; he was then taken into
custody, Ms. Mack said. Another person injured in the attack, which left three
immigrants dead, is still in a hospital, and several others in the group, which
numbered about 30, appear to have escaped from the gunmen and fled, Ms. Mack
said.   RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nafta Should Have Stopped Illegal Immigration, Right?

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1154 words


THE North American Free Trade Agreement, enacted by Congress 14 years ago, held
out an alluring promise: the agreement would reduce illegal immigration from
Mexico. Mexicans, the argument went, would enjoy the prosperity and employment
that the trade agreement would undoubtedly generate -- and not feel the need to
cross the border into the United States.

But today the number of illegal migrants has only continued to rise. Why didn't
Nafta curb this immigration? The answer is complicated, of course. But a major
factor lies in the assumptions made in drafting the trade agreement, assumptions
about the way governments would behave (that is, rationally) and the way markets
would respond (rationally, as well).

Neither happened, yet Nafta remains the model for trade agreements with
developing Latin countries, including the Central American Free Trade Agreement,
passed by Congress in 2005. Three more Nafta-like agreements are now pending in
Congress -- with Panama, Columbia and Peru.

When Nafta finally became a reality, on Jan. 1, 1994, American investment
flooded into Mexico, mostly to finance factories that manufacture automobiles,
appliances, TV sets, apparel and the like. The expectation was that the Mexican
government would do its part by investing billions of dollars in roads,
schooling, sanitation, housing and other needs to accommodate the new factories
as they spread through the country.

It was more than an expectation. Many Mexican officials in the government of
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari assured the Clinton administration that the
investment would take place, and believed it themselves, said Gary Hufbauer, a
senior fellow at the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington who campaigned for Nafta in the early 1990s.

''It just did not happen,'' he said.

Absent that investment, foreign factories congregated in the north, within 300
miles of the American border, where some infrastructure already existed.
''Monterrey is quite good,'' Mr. Hufbauer said, ''but in a lot of other cities
the infrastructure is terrible, not even enough running water or electricity in
poor neighborhoods. People get temporary jobs, but that is all.''

Meanwhile, Mexican manufacturers, once protected by tariffs on a host of
products, were driven out of business as less expensive, higher quality
merchandise flowed into the country. Later, China, with its even-cheaper labor,
added to the pressure, luring away manufacturers and jobs.

Indeed, despite the influx of foreign-owned factories, total manufacturing
employment in Mexico declined to 3.5 million by 2004 from a high of 4.1 million
in 2000, according to a calculation of Robert A. Blecker, an American University
economist.

As relatively well-paying jobs disappeared, Mexico's average wage for production
workers, already low, fell further behind the average hourly pay of production
workers in the United States, and Mexicans responded by migrating.

''The main thing that would have stemmed the flow of people across the border
was a rapid increase in wages in Mexico,'' said Dani Rodrik, an economist and
trade specialist at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government. ''And that
certainly has not happened.''

Something similar occurred in agriculture. The assumption was that tens of
thousands of farmers who cultivated corn would act ''rationally'' and continue
farming, even as less expensive corn imported from the United States flooded the
market. The farmers, it was assumed, would switch to growing strawberries and
vegetables -- with some help from foreign investment -- and then export these
crops to the United States. Instead, the farmers exported themselves, partly
because the Mexican government decided to reduce tariffs on corn even faster
than Nafta required, according to Philip Martin, an agricultural economist at
the University of California, Davis.

''We understood that the transition from corn to strawberries would not be
smooth,'' Professor Martin said. ''But we did not think there would be almost no
transition.''

A financial crisis also dashed expectations. One expectation was that the
Mexican economy, driven by Nafta, would grow rapidly, generating jobs and
keeping Mexicans home. The peso crisis of 1994-95, however, provoked a steep
recession, and while there was some big growth later, the average annual growth
rate over Nafta's lifetime has been less than 3 percent.

The financial crisis struck just months after Nafta came into existence,
undermining, early on, the Mexican government's ability to spend money on roads,
education and other necessary government functions.

''We underestimated Mexico's deficits in physical and human infrastructure,''
said J. Bradford DeLong, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley,
and a Treasury official in the Clinton administration.

But, he says, without Nafta the migration would have been even greater. For
instance, he says, there would not have been as much investment in the north of
the country.

Finally, the steady flow of Mexicans to the United States has produced a
momentum of its own -- what Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic
Institute, calls a ''network effect,'' in which young Mexicans travel to the
United States in growing numbers to join the growing number of family members
already here.

The upshot is that Mexican migration to the United States has risen to 500,000 a
year from less than 400,000 in the early 1990s, before Nafta, Mr. Passel
estimates. Roughly 80 percent to 85 percent of immigrants are here illegally, he
says.

The peso crisis, recession, the network effect -- their impact may have been
beyond anyone's control, but not the assumptions about how the market and the
government would act.

''We have indeed had one disappointment after another on this score,'' Mr.
Rodrik said, noting that the same assumption about government spending is part
and parcel of the agreements, now before Congress, with Columbia, Peru and
Panama.

While there is opposition to these proposals, it is mainly from Democrats who
want a better safety net for American workers who might be hurt.

The European Union, in contrast, assumes little about government spending on the
part of economically weaker nations joining it. The union itself has hugely
subsidized the improved services needed by entering countries like Portugal,
Spain, Greece and Poland, rather than leave financing to the relatively meager
resources of entering countries.

The money is used not only for public investment, Mr. Rodrik noted, but also to
subsidize companies setting up operations in the new countries and to support
government budgets.

''I am not saying Nafta was a bad agreement,'' Mr. Rodrik said. ''But more than
a trade agreement is required for countries to converge economically. And Nafta
has been viewed as a shortcut to convergence without having to do all the other
stuff.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Expectations -- Mexican families increasingly crossed the border
because higher-paying jobs never made their promised appearance. (Photo by Omar
Torres/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Chart: ''Not Exactly What They Had
in Mind''Nafta took effect in 1994, but the Mexican economy has not prospered as
expected, particularly in recent years.Mexican Wages DownHourly wages for
production workers. Figures converted to 2004 U.S. dollars.1994: $2.912004:
$2.50MEXICAN WORKERSWAGES DOWN 14%1994: $13.712004: $15.69U.S. WORKERSWAGES UP
14%Factory Jobs DeclinedTotal workers in manufacturing.Graph tracks total
workers in manufacturing from 1994 to 2004.Jobs declined 15% since their peak in
2000.Mexico's G.D.P. Growth Is WeakGraph tracks annual change, in percent, from
1994 to 2004.11-year average: 2.9%1995: -6.2%2004: 4.2%There was no growth in
2001.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics [wages]
government of Mexico [manufacturing jobs]
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development [wages and G.D.P.])

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 21, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tougher Tactics Deter Migrants At U.S. Border

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1513 words

DATELINE: SAN LUIS RIO COLORADO, Mexico


For 10 years, Eduardo Valenzuela has been crossing the border illegally near
Yuma, Ariz., trekking over desert scrub and hopping a freight train to get back
to his job with a construction company in Phoenix. The clandestine trip has
become an annual ritual for him, as he goes home each winter to see his
children.

But on a recent afternoon he and four travel companions from his hometown, Los
Mochis, plopped down on a bench in a park in the border town of San Luis Rio
Colorado, exhausted and dispirited. They were beat. Border Patrol agents had
caught them twice over three days, hounding them with helicopters and
four-wheel-drive trucks.

''It's become much more difficult,'' Mr. Valenzuela said, echoing the comments
of dozens of other migrants. ''Before, you just arrived here and then you walked
a little and got the train. You used to see a border patrol agent every 10
kilometers. Now you see four of them where there was one. Think of it.''

All along the border, there are signs that the measures the Border Patrol and
other federal agencies have taken over the last year, from erecting new barriers
to posting 6,000 National Guardsmen as armed sentinels, are beginning to slow
the flow of illegal immigrants.

The only available barometer of the decline is how many migrants are caught. In
the last four months, the number has dropped 27 percent compared with the same
period last year, the biggest drop since a crackdown immediately after 9/11. In
two sections around Yuma and near Del Rio, Tex., the numbers have fallen by
nearly two-thirds, Homeland Security officials say.

''We are comfortable that this actually reflects a change in momentum,'' Michael
Chertoff, the secretary of Homeland Security, said in an interview last week
during his first official visit to Mexico City. ''I'm always quick to say it
doesn't mean we can declare victory. To some degree, I expect the criminal
organizations or smugglers are pulling back a little, watching to see if we lose
interest.''

Some immigration experts said it was too early to tell if the enforcement
efforts had caused a permanent downturn. In the past, tougher enforcement has
only caused smugglers to seek new routes.

''It's the squeeze the balloon phenomenon,'' said Roberto Suro, the director of
the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington. ''Sometimes you can't tell where the
bubble will come when you squeeze until later.''

Nor can they rule out other factors, like a relatively cold winter on the border
and Mexico's solid economic growth last year.

Border Patrol commanders say they see no explanation for the drop-off across the
entire 2,000-mile border other than stiffer enforcement deterring migrants. The
slackening flow, they argue, belies the conventional wisdom that it is
impossible to stem illegal migration. Many veteran officers in the force are now
beginning to believe it can be controlled with enough resources.

The new measures range from simply putting more officers out on patrol to
erecting stadium lights, secondary fences and barriers of thick steel poles to
stop smugglers from racing across the desert in all-wheel-drive trucks. The
Border Patrol has deployed hundreds of new guards to watch rivers, monitor
surveillance cameras and guard fences.

In the Yuma headquarters of the Border Patrol, for instance, Chief Ronald
Colburn said that with the help of the National Guard the patrol had doubled the
agents in his sector to about 900, extended the primary steel wall eight miles
past the end of the Mexican town of San Luis Rio Colorado, and constructed a
vehicle barrier six miles beyond that. ''It's the right mix, the right recipe,''
he said.

The federal government has also begun punishing migrants with prison time from
the first time they enter illegally in some areas. For instance, along the 210
miles of border covered by the Del Rio office of the Border Patrol, everyone
caught crossing illegally is charged in federal court and, if convicted,
sentenced to at least two weeks in prison.

That is an enormous break with past practice, when most Mexican migrants were
simply taken back to the border and let go. People from Central American
countries were given a court date and released on their own recognizance. Few
ever showed up.

In San Luis Rio Colorado, the effects of the stepped-up patrols are apparent. A
year ago, migrants thronged the town park and cheap motels, where guides, known
as ''coyotes'' or ''polleros'' offered their services. Now the park is nearly
empty. The smugglers are telling their charges to take a bus to a spot called El
Sahuaro about 50 miles east of town. From there the migrants make a dangerous
two-day walk through rocky canyons and barren desert to reach Interstate 8.

On the other side, Border Patrol agents say they are picking up about 100 people
a day, rather than the 500 a day they handled a year ago. A year ago, the
processing center in Yuma, where migrants are fingerprinted then shipped to the
border, was mobbed. Now it is nearly empty most of the time.

Several migrants waiting their chance in San Luis cursed under their breath in
Spanish when asked about the soldiers and beefed-up patrols. Some are indignant
that the United States would treat them like enemies or criminals.

''It's harder and harder, and that's the reason why people are dying in the
desert,'' said Miguel Perez, a 24-year-old migrant from Guerrero State. ''It
makes no sense.''

A year ago, a flood of immigrants from Central America was also overwhelming the
border patrol in Del Rio and Eagle Pass, two small Texas towns on the Rio
Grande. The migrants were taking advantage of a lack of detention space, which
had led to the policy of giving them a hearing date and letting them remain in
the country.

The result was bizarre: Central Americans would cross the river in droves in
broad daylight, run up to Border Patrol agents and line up to be arrested,
knowing they would be released and could then continue on their journey. More
than 200 a day were arrested in Eagle Pass alone.

Agents at the processing center, never intended as a jail, were so busy feeding
and fingerprinting migrants they had little time for patrolling, said Randy
Clark, the agent in charge of Eagle Pass Border Patrol office.

''It was a madhouse, literally a madhouse,'' he said, as he walked through the
processing center, its empty cells covered in graffiti. ''It's like night and
day. Night and day.''

Agent Clark and his colleagues attribute the reversal to two changes. First, the
Justice Department gave Border Patrol agents the ability to deport most of the
Central Americans more quickly, without a hearing before a judge.

Then, in December 2005, the federal government started prosecuting everyone the
Border Patrol picked up for illegal entry, a misdemeanor that carries a penalty
of up to six months in county, state and federal jails for a first offense.

On a recent morning, 78 immigrants shuffled into the federal courtroom of Judge
Victor Roberto Garcia. The migrants were shackled around the feet and hands as
if they were dangerous criminals.

Once in court, the judge conducted an unusual mass hearing in which all the
migrants -- represented by a single lawyer -- agreed to waive their right to a
trial and pleaded guilty to illegal entry. The judge gave the first-timers 15
days in jail, but he handed out sentences of 120 or 180 days to those who had
been deported in the past.

One Honduran woman, Gloria Machado-Lara, had been deported just a month before,
but tried to slip in again with her husband, Freddy Rosales Diaz, in early
February. The judge looked dumbfounded.

''Just last month they sent you back?'' he said. ''You understand that's why you
have to go to jail.''

Head lowered, she said, ''Forgive me.'' He gave her and her husband 120 days.

Though it seems cruel to many migrants, the zero-tolerance policy appears to be
working, Border Patrol commanders say. Along the river the Del Rio sector
patrols, arrests are a third of what they were a year ago, only about 35 a day.
In the meantime, drug seizures have doubled, as more agents have been freed up
to patrol.

''Word is getting around out there that if you cross in this area and get
apprehended you are probably going to go to jail, and that is a deterrent,''
Sector Chief Randy Hill said.

Yet across the river in Ciudad Acuna, where migrants arrive bewildered and
penniless every afternoon after serving their prison sentences, several said
they had no idea they ran the risk of jail. The smugglers they hired never told
them.

One of the migrants was a 51-year-old plumber from Acambaro, Guanajuato, who
asked that his name not be used because he was ashamed of the criminal
conviction. He said he was trying to get to San Antonio, where a friend had
promised to get him a job at a water park.

He needed more money, he said, to pay his son's college tuition. He had never
set foot in a jail before.

But he acknowledged that the stint in jail had persuaded him not to try again,
even if his son must drop out. ''No way,'' he said, shaking his head.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A new vehicle barrier just north of San Luis Rio Colorado,
Mexico, part of a series of measures that have reduced the flow of illegal
migrants there. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 A suspect captured near San Luis, Arizona, exits a Border Patrol wagon, top,
still wearing the foam pads migrants tie to their shoes to avoid leaving
footprints. Other suspects sleep in a holding room at the Border Patrol station
in Yuma, where the number of apprehensions has dropped by nearly two-thirds in
the last year. (Photographs by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)(pg. A10)Map
of Mexico highlighting San Luis Rio Colorado. (pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Game at N.Y.U. Draws Protesters

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON; Sean McManus contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 583 words


A game called ''Catch the Illegal Immigrant'' staged on New York University's
campus by a student Republican group drew several hundred students yesterday.
But most came to protest the game, not to play it.

Under the game's rules, according to one student Republican, players were to
search on campus for the student chosen to wear a name tag saying ''illegal
immigrant.'' The winner received a small reward.

But many students and other critics said they were repelled that anyone would
want to play such a game.

Chanting demonstrators, marching on a side street near Washington Square Park
across from a table set up by the Republicans, carried signs saying, ''Racism
Isn't a Game'' and ''We Are All Immigrants.''

''The idea of hunting down an illegal immigrant in a game was disgusting,'' said
Dave Hancock, a senior majoring in urban planning and a member of Students
Creating Radical Change, which helped arrange a counterdemonstration yesterday.
''If they want to have an honest conversation about a very difficult topic,
let's do it. Instead, they decided to host what many of us felt was an
insensitive and offensive event.''

The College Republicans said their aim was not to offend, but rather to draw
awareness to the issues.

''We knew something like this would get people on the street,'' said David
Laska, a member of the College Republicans board, adding that events featuring
speakers and debates did not draw the turnout that yesterday's event attracted.

''I'd rather have people motivated against us than sanguine,'' added Mr. Laska,
who described himself as ''the grandchild of four legal immigrants.'' He said
that the event might have been ''politically incorrect,'' but that it was not
racist.

The event drew sharp opposition from beyond the campus. Representative Joseph
Crowley, a Democrat representing the Bronx and Queens, issued a statement
calling it a ''disturbing and immature stunt.''

John Sexton, the university president, said that while the university was
committed to debate, even on divisive topics, he was disappointed by the game,
which placed ''sloganeering and trivialization of thought above true debate.''

''As a university community of scholars and learners,'' he said, ''we can do
better, and we can set a better example for the quality of dialogue we hope for
in our country.''

Marcelo M. Suarez-Orozco, co-director of immigration studies at N.Y.U., said he
was saddened that what could have been an opportunity for learning had
''deteriorated into a ridiculous juvenile exercise of arguably no learning
value.''

Caitlin Kannall, secretary of the College Republicans and a sophomore from
Illinois, said the event gained publicity after an announcement appeared on the
social networking Web site Facebook about a week ago, and a competing event was
organized. It was Ms. Kannall who was wearing the ''illegal immigrant'' name tag
in the game.

Sarah L. Chambers, the president of the Republican club and a junior from St.
Louis, said the protests did not convince her that the game should be canceled.
She said her club had about 40 active members and a mailing list of about 400.
About two dozen attended yesterday's event.

As the protest wound down about 2 p.m., the protesters declared themselves
satisfied with the outcome.

''For us, this is a victory,'' said Dalia Yedida, speaking through a bullhorn.

Referring to the College Republicans, she said: ''They're scared right now. This
is great. We showed N.Y.U. But this is not over.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2007



CORRECTION: An article last Friday about a game called ''Catch the Illegal
Immigrant,'' staged by a student Republican group at New York University, that
drew more protesters than players misspelled the surname of one protester. She
is Dalia Yedidia, not Yedida.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ann Shirazi held a protest sign to challenge a student group's
game yesterday at New York University. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Borders Without Fences

BYLINE: By Ted Kerasote.

Ted Kerasote is the author of ''Out There: In the Wild in a Wired Age'' and the
forthcoming ''Merle's Door: Lessons From a Freethinking Dog.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: KELLY, Wyo.


IN the debate over how to prevent illegal immigration from Mexico into the
United States -- armed patrols, electronic surveillance, prison time for first
offenders and a 700-mile-long 15-foot-high fence -- few politicians have voiced
concern over the last option's profound effects on wildlife.

Authorized by the Secure Fence Act of 2006, this barrier (83 miles of which have
already been built) will bisect a border region that has some of the most
ecologically diverse landscapes in the hemisphere. It is here -- in a land of
deserts, mountains, conifers and cactus -- that bird species from North and
Central America share territories and cross paths during migrations. It is here
that endangered wildlife, like the jaguar and gray wolf, have an opportunity to
reoccupy lands from which they were extirpated during the last century.

The list of other beautiful common or rarely seen animals that live along the
border is long. A small sampling would include cougars, desert bighorn sheep,
ocelots, pronghorn antelope, road runners, white-tailed deer and hundreds of
species of birds and insects. The fence would physically prevent both large and
small mammals as well as reptiles from traveling across the border, and the
lights atop the fence would attract insects, making them easier prey for birds
that feed on them. Some of these insects pollinate the plants of the region,
including cactus.

Since the secretary of homeland security will have authority to waive laws that
stand in the way of building the fence -- like the Endangered Species Act --
wildlife and habitats could be destroyed on a scale not seen since the 1960s,
when the nation's first wilderness and environmental laws were passed. Of
course, many argue that the fence is an issue of national security and the
safety of the American people trumps that of American wildlife. But that
reasoning is flawed. The economic health of many people is increasingly reliant
on the health of their natural surroundings.

In fact, studies done at the Universities of Montana and Colorado show that
intact natural landscapes attract not only tourists to a region but also new
residents and businesses that pump dollars into local economies. It isn't just
plentiful sunshine that has made the Southwest one of the fastest-growing
regions in the nation, it's also the region's diverse natural attractions, one
of which is wildlife.

The fence, however, will reduce wildlife-viewing opportunities in the many
national parks, monuments, refuges, wilderness areas and forests that garland
the United States-Mexico border. And its effects will be felt far to the north
and south, along the mountainous backbone of the continent, where
conservationists have spent decades mapping and preserving migration corridors
that allow the free movement of wildlife between the two nations.

Such ecological damage has already been seen around the world, where a variety
of high, long fences have been constructed. In Botswana, for instance, the
government erected fences, starting in the 1950s, to separate wildlife and
livestock. As a result, at least 250,000 wildebeest, unable to reach water,
perished from 1970 to 1984 and tens of thousands of antelope have died. In Asia,
the migration of gazelles has been curtailed by the fence that the Chinese
government built along the border with Mongolia in the 1990s. And in Australia,
a 3,300-mile-long fence built in the 1950s to keep dingoes out of the
southeastern part of the continent deprived kangaroos of their natural predator.
Thus, the kangaroo population flourished, reducing the number of sheep the land
could sustain, a result that the backers of the fence -- sheep ranchers --
neither foresaw nor intended.

Unfortunately, since the fence along the United States-Mexico border is designed
to keep people out, it can't be outfitted with features that allow wildlife to
migrate over and under livestock fences and highways. Let's hope that when it
comes time to appropriate the money to build the entire fence, cooler
Congressional heads will prevail. There are better ways to protect our borders
than building a wall that people will inevitably find ways around but wildlife
won't.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 Ex-Managers Plead Guilty In Hiring of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 27


Five former managers from a pallet and crate maker pleaded guilty on Tuesday in
the company's hiring of illegal immigrants, 10 months after raids in 26 states
signaled a federal crackdown on employers that break the law to get cheap labor.

James Rice, 37, of Houston, who was an executive regional general manager at
IFCO Systems, pleaded guilty in Federal District Court in Albany to conspiring
to employ illegal workers. Robert Belvin, 43, of Stuart, Fla., former general
manager of a suburban Albany plant, pleaded guilty to two felony conspiracy
charges.

The three other managers -- Dario Salzano, 36, of Amsterdam, N.Y.; Michael Ames,
44, of Shrewsbury, Mass.; and Scott Dodge, 44, of Elmira, N.Y. -- pleaded guilty
to misdemeanors. Mr. Dodge was foreman at an IFCO plant near Albany where Mr.
Salzano was assistant general manager. Mr. Ames was general manager of a plant
near Boston.

Charges are pending against two other IFCO managers, one in Houston and one in
Cincinnati.

In April, more than 1,100 people were arrested on administrative immigration
charges at more than 40 IFCO sites in the United States. At the time, Department
of Homeland Security officials said the raids were part of an effort reduce
illegal immigration by focusing on employers.

IFCO, based in the Netherlands, describes itself as the leading pallet services
company in America. It reported $108 million in profit in 2006 on revenue of
$647 million.

More than half of the company's roughly 5,800 employees during 2005 had invalid
or mismatched Social Security numbers, the government said at the time of the
raids.

Tina E. Sciocchetti, an assistant United States attorney, said Mr. Rice and Mr.
Belvin could each face 18 to 24 months in prison and a fine of up to $250,000.
The others face up to six months in jail and a $3,000 fine for each illegal
alien employed.

''Under the circumstances, we thought the only rational thing to do was to plead
guilty,'' said Mr. Belvin's lawyer, Terence L. Kindlon.

Mr. Rice's lawyer declined to comment on the plea.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 3, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Midwest: Ohio: Record Penalty In Illegal Labor Case

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 81 words


Maximino Garcia, the president of two temporary labor contracting companies, was
sentenced late Thursday in federal court in Cincinnati to 15 months in prison
for providing hundreds of illegal immigrants as workers to an air cargo company.
Mr. Garcia, who pleaded guilty on Oct. 3 to conspiring to aid illegal
immigrants, was also fined $25,000 and ordered to forfeit $12 million -- the
largest forfeiture ever ordered in an illegal labor case, immigration officials
said.   JULIA PRESTON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration: A Tale of Three Cities

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 867 words


Connecticut does not speak with one voice on immigration. Far from it. Cities
send their own messages, some welcoming, some divisive. No municipality can make
up for the lack of a consistent federal policy on immigration, or change the
tendency of the United States government to look the other way, which has
allowed 11 million to move to this country illegally, most to find work.
Breaking the law is not to be condoned, yet many illegal immigrants will
probably wind up staying here. That is why the reactions of municipal
governments to this issue are important. They will shape their communities for
years to come.

Consider the following situations:

In Stamford, Mayor Dannel Malloy directed the city to set up a ''no hassle''
zone where day laborers, who are often illegal immigrants, could make themselves
available for work without being arrested for loitering or told to move away.
Unless their inquiries are part of a criminal investigation, police do not
generally ask about the citizenship of people they encounter, Mr. Malloy said.

New Haven has gone a step further. Last year, Police Chief Francisco Ortiz, with
the blessing of Mayor John DeStefano, ordered his department in writing not to
inquire about anyone's immigration status, and, if it is known, to keep it
confidential outside of a criminal investigation. The ''don't ask, don't tell''
policy aims to encourage crime victims or witnesses to contact police. Mr.
DeStefano's administration is also preparing to offer any city resident, by
midyear, an official identification card to help residents open a bank account
or get a library card. It will be available citywide, but its purpose is to
encourage immigrants to keep large sums of money in the bank, not in their
pockets.

''These people have come here to make a better life for their children,'' said
Kica Matos, the New Haven community services administrator, and the city is
determined to help.

Then there's Danbury.

As his city increasingly became a magnet for illegal immigrants, the Republican
mayor, Mark Boughton, began railing against failed federal policies and began a
crackdown of his own. In 2005, he asked Gov. M. Jodi Rell to deputize state
police as immigration officials. She refused. He then formed a nonprofit
organization with a hardliner on Long Island, Steve Levy, the Suffolk county
executive. Called Mayors and County Executives for Immigration Reform, it
lobbies for changes in federal law.

The same year, he asked United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement to
enforce federal law in Danbury. Dozens of arrests followed. In a case that
outraged civil libertarians, 11 Ecuadoreans were arrested by immigration agents,
one of whom dressed like a contractor seeking to hire day laborers. In January
of this year, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, with help from Danbury
police, arrested six more people suspected of being illegal immigrants. Among
those arrested was Tereza Pereira, 42, who came to the United States from Brazil
19 years ago. She owns a house in Danbury where she is raising two sons, ages 6
and 15. Ms. Pereira began the process of applying for citizenship 10 years ago,
her lawyer said, but a series of errors and missed deadlines resulted in a
deportation order, one which she was never told about. After spending two weeks
imprisoned in Maine, a federal judge released Ms. Pereira and reopened her case.

Her situation elicits little sympathy from Mayor Boughton; undocumented workers,
he says, should be worried. And they are. Some have left the city, others just
lie low, enough so that merchants on a revitalized Main Street report a drop in
business since the arrests became more common.

It is clear that Danbury, with a population around 78,000, is under stress.
Mayor Boughton believes the city has gained as many as 14,000 immigrants since
2000, many of them illegal, a number impossible to prove. But according to the
Internal Revenue Service, Danbury has a higher percentage of noncitizens who pay
federal income taxes than any other city in Connecticut; nearly 8 percent of
federal income tax forms filed by Danbury residents contained no Social Security
numbers.

Mayor Boughton ticks off other problems: soaring school enrollment, overcrowded
housing, unlicensed drivers. It's not all bad news; unemployment in Danbury is
low, as is crime.

But while the mayor's stance may be legally correct, its sharp edges will
ultimately divide the city. The federal immigration officials the mayor has
invited into Danbury cannot arrest everyone. As a practical matter, most
immigrants will remain, illegal or not. And there are nuances to which the mayor
seems blind. Ms. Pereira, for example, may have come here illegally, but her two
sons -- the older of which is an athlete and an honor student at Danbury High
School -- are Americans. They have the right to make their homes here. Will they
want to stay in Danbury in the current atmosphere?

Mayor Boughton is right that we need an overhaul of federal immigration policy.
But until that occurs, a compassionate local response is in order, and for that
Stamford and New Haven have set the standard. Mayor Boughton would do well to
reconsider his approach.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 5, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Haven Welcomes Immigrants, Legal or Not

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, March 1


The people have been arriving here for years from Mexico, Guatemala, Jamaica and
Ecuador, some staying just a few months, but more settling in for years.

The way Mayor John DeStefano saw it, there were basically two choices: City
officials could look the other way, as if the change were not happening, or they
could embrace the transformation, doing whatever was possible to welcome the
newcomers.

For now, this city is marching steadily toward becoming a safe haven for
immigrants -- whether they are in the country legally or not.

The Police Department has adopted a sort of ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy
regarding citizenship status. City Hall is sponsoring workshops to help illegal
immigrants file federal income taxes. And this summer, New Haven plans to allow
illegal immigrants to apply for municipal identification cards, in what
immigration advocates describe as the first program of its type in the nation.

City officials and immigrant-rights advocates hope these and other initiatives
will make immigrants feel more comfortable dealing with life's bureaucratic
necessities -- and make them less wary of the police. Officials say the
decisions are more pragmatic than ideological, even in this overwhelmingly
liberal city of 125,000, where advocates estimate that 3,000 to 5,000 illegal
immigrants live in Fair Haven, New Haven's predominantly Latino neighborhood.

''It stems from a simple central fact that when you've got a lot of people
living in one place, you have to have certain rules for stability,'' Mr.
DeStefano said. ''You have this population that works hard and lives among us as
neighbors; we ought to know who they are. The last thing you want is them not to
talk to City Hall because they are afraid of us.''

New Haven's welcoming policies have, in many ways, trickled down from larger
cities like New York, Los Angeles and Houston, but stand in sharp contrast to
the expanding crackdown on immigrants announced last week in Suffolk County on
Long Island.

Saying that illegal immigrants were hurting Long Island's economy and quality of
life, Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, called for antiloitering
legislation to clear day laborers off the streets; vowed to enforce a county law
penalizing businesses for hiring illegal immigrants; and welcomed federal
immigration officials into the local jail to speed deportation of those who are
arrested.

At the same time, immigrant groups in New Jersey are working with Hackensack,
Paterson and other places to pass resolutions prohibiting the police or other
city officials from questioning residents about their immigration status,
joining Newark and Trenton in becoming so-called sanctuary cities.

As more immigrants have bypassed larger cities in favor of smaller cities and
towns on the outer rings of urban areas, local governments are increasingly torn
by questions like how building inspectors should handle overcrowded apartments
and whether garbage collection and other services can be denied based on
immigration status.

The issue seems less fraught with tension in New Haven, the home of Yale
University and long a hub of liberal social movements. When Mayor DeStefano
floated the idea of municipal ID cards here in late 2005, the news ricocheted on
conservative talk radio shows, but there were no protests on the steps of City
Hall or major outcries from residents.

Indeed, the city had been under pressure to formalize a longstanding policy that
police officers would not ask for the immigration status of a person who
reported a crime.

Police and city officials have long worried that immigrants had become targets
for robbery because they often get paid in cash and carry large sums of money;
some said that immigrants were viewed as ''walking A.T.M.'s'' because they were
easy victims who probably would not report crimes for fear of deportation.
Indeed, there were several instances in which robbery victims went to community
centers for help rather than risk calling the police.

Even if confrontations with the police are isolated exceptions, reports and
rumors of them ripple quickly through the immigrant community, which is centered
in the Fair Haven neighborhood north of downtown.

''It's simple. There are some police who want to help, who just want to get the
criminals, and there are others who want to cause trouble and scare us,'' Pedro
Martinez, who has lived in Fair Haven for three years, said in Spanish. ''We try
to tell each other where it's safe to walk, which are the good officers, but
it's not always right.''

Mr. Martinez said that he and his friends knew about the Police Department's new
policy, but that it was too soon to tell how much of a difference it would make.

Still, there were signs of reluctance in some quarters. When the Police
Department moved to put its longstanding policy into writing, police union
officials worried they could be held liable by the federal government. After the
city had an immigration lawyer assure them that they were not legally obliged to
go after civil law violations, the union said it would back the policy, but some
doubters remain.

''Everybody is looking at this as if we were just one big happy family or as if
we live in 'Mister Rogers' Neighborhood,' but that's not the case,'' said Louis
Cavalier, the police union president. ''These are people who are breaking the
law; when they find them they should put them in the car and ship them back
home. Instead, you have people calling their relatives and saying, 'Hey, come
here, where it's safe.' ''

Immigration experts doubt a city's policies could affect an immigrant's
destination more than, say, where relatives live or jobs can be found, but there
is at least tacit acknowledgment here that there is political will to try things
in New Haven that would be shunned in more conservative communities.

City officials essentially shelved plans for municipal identification cards
while Mr. DeStefano was running as the Democratic candidate for governor, though
he said he rarely heard complaints about them while campaigning.

Late last year, he hired Kica Matos, the former director of Junta for
Progressive Action, an immigration advocacy and community center, as community
affairs director at City Hall, and Ms. Matos plans to put several
immigrant-friendly policies into effect, including the identification cards.

Like most states, Connecticut requires proof of legal citizenship or residency
for driver's licenses, making it nearly impossible for most illegal immigrants
to have an official identification card to use in banks, bars or when dealing
with the police.

Though other cities have long distributed identification cards for particular
city services, like borrowing books from the library, this would be the first to
be issued for general use.

There are still several kinks to be ironed out, including how to encourage legal
residents to get the card so that it does not become a de facto scarlet letter
for those here illegally. But officials are optimistic that children, Yale
students and supportive New Haven residents will sign up; they have also
considered asking local businesses to offer some kind of discount for those with
the card.

''We know that there is interest from the immigrant community for something like
this and that the need for an ID outweighs the potential nervousness about not
wanting anyone to know who you are,'' said Michael Wishnie, a law professor at
Yale who has lobbied the city for immigrant-friendly policies.

For example, Professor Wishnie said, thousands of illegal immigrants have signed
up for an individual taxpayer identification number with the Internal Revenue
Service, which allows them to pay federal taxes. Many immigrants believe that
filing taxes will allow them to prove that they have been working, law-abiding
residents if they are eventually considered for citizenship.

This year, for the first time, the city used several workers to recruit
immigrants to its low-income tax counseling program. Junta, the primary
community agency running the program, has had dozens of applicants come through
its doors in the last month.

Maria, who asked that her last name not be used, was fairly typical of the
applicants. She said she had lived in the United States for eight years and had
always had a job -- sometimes for cash, sometimes for a check. As she sat down
with a Junta tax counselor, she pulled out W-2 forms for each of the last five
years, detailing how much money she had made in her job at a laundry.

''Can I pay for all of these years?'' Maria asked, seemingly eager to send the
government any money she might owe.

When the counselor replied that she would do the 2006 forms first, and then
could do the last three years, Maria looked down at the stack of papers.

''See, this is what I hope,'' she said a few minutes later, motioning to her
young son sitting next to her. ''That if I pay, I can do what they want me to do
and become a citizen like my children.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Huizar of Junta for Progressive Action, an organization
that serves New Haven's Latino residents, helps a couple with their taxes.
(Photo by Andrew Henderson for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Newark: Immigration Office Reports 363 Arrests

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 61 words


Federal immigration agents arrested 363 illegal immigrants, including 48 with
criminal records, in New Jersey during January and February, immigration
officials said yesterday. The arrests, made as part of a national effort called
Operation Return to Sender, involved immigrants from 26 countries, officials at
the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement office said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and the Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 105 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Path to Citizenship'' (editorial, March 2):

It is difficult to understand your position on citizenship for illegal
immigrants. Quite frankly, do the laws of the United States mean anything, or is
their observance just a matter of convenience?

It seems to me that while citizens have constitutional rights, foreign citizens
have no inalienable right to American citizenship.

It is something granted by this country to people who have undergone a lengthy
naturalization process. Part of that process should not be successfully entering
this county illegally.Garry S. Sklar North Woodmere, N.Y.March 2, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Can Return to U.S. After Burying Family in Mali

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 641 words


An illegal immigrant who lost four children and his wife in last week's fire in
the Bronx learned yesterday that he would be allowed to travel to and from his
West African homeland to bury his family, ending a period of uncertainty amid
his grief.

The immigrant, Mamadou Soumare, 48, a cabdriver, was scheduled to visit a
federal immigration office at 10 a.m. today and receive formal permission to
travel to Mali and return to New York, officials said. In the aftermath of the
fire, one of the deadliest in recent New York history, his relatives, city
leaders and a lawyer had been trying to fulfill his wish of burying his family
in Mali.

Mr. Soumare first heard the news late yesterday while sitting in the Manhattan
offices of the lawyer, Michael Wildes, who has been working on the case pro
bono. ''He was elated,'' Mr. Wildes said. ''His religious liturgy plays a strong
role in his life. It's important that he lay his family to rest as quickly as
possible.''

Though Mr. Soumare did not have a green card, he had previously applied for
political asylum, officials said. Elected officials had been trying to resolve
his problem, including Senator Charles E. Schumer; Jose E. Serrano, the Bronx
congressman; and Adolfo Carrion Jr., the Bronx borough president.

Mr. Schumer and Mr. Serrano had lobbied the New York branch of the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services to grant Mr. Soumare a type of temporary
travel permission known as advance parole. Advance parole is typically issued by
the citizenship office to those with pending immigration applications, including
asylum applications, and allows them to re-enter the United States after
traveling aboard.

Shawn Saucier, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, said the
agency was prepared to issue Mr. Soumare an advance parole after his appointment
today at the agency's office at Federal Plaza in Manhattan.

It remained unclear when Mr. Soumare would leave for Africa. The director of the
funeral home, Francisco's Funeraria, said yesterday that the earliest the bodies
could be sent was tomorrow, because of the many arrangements that would need to
be coordinated to fly the bodies. In the meantime, the bodies lay in a
refrigerated room, in wooden boxes lined with zinc and stainless steel.

Sheikh Moussa Drammeh, a family spokesman and the principal of the Islamic
Leadership School in the Bronx, said Mr. Soumare would probably leave sometime
Friday. Mr. Drammeh said he had been confident that Mr. Soumare would receive
the permission he needed.

''In the past, America and the State Department and immigration has not shown
insensitivity in cases like this, of humanitarian assistance, so we were very
hopeful things would work out,'' he said.

Mr. Schumer and Mr. Serrano each took credit in separate news releases for
securing the authorization for Mr. Soumare's travels. Mr. Schumer said he worked
with immigration officials to reopen Mr. Soumare's asylum case from 1992, and
Mr. Wildes thanked Mr. Schumer for his help. Mr. Serrano sent the death
certificates on Monday to immigration officials, along with a letter requesting
advance parole.

''There's no joy in this,'' Mr. Serrano said. ''The guy's going home to bury his
children.''

Advance parole is issued in lieu of a visa, but it does not provide a path to
permanent residency. Mr. Wildes, who is also the mayor of Englewood, N.J., said
he would help secure his client's permanent status while Mr. Soumare was in
Africa.

Four of Mr. Soumare's children died as a result of the fire. His three other
children live in Mali. Mr. Wildes said Mr. Soumare was grateful for the
emotional and financial support and assistance his family and the Magassas, who
lost five children in the fire, have received.

''The support,'' Mr. Wildes said, ''has lit the shadow of his tragedy with
light.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Medicaid Documentation Mess

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 422 words


Exaggerated fears that illegal immigrants are fraudulently receiving Medicaid
health benefits have led to a crackdown that is preventing tens of thousands of
American citizens from obtaining legitimate coverage. Congress, whose mindless
actions led to this travesty, needs to fix this injustice.

The problem was triggered by last year's Deficit Reduction Act, which contained
provisions requiring applicants for Medicaid, a health insurance program for the
poor, to show proof of their citizenship and identity when they apply for, or
seek to renew, coverage. That may not seem unreasonable since eligibility is
generally limited to American citizens and certain qualified aliens. But
previously most states had simply asked applicants to declare in writing --
under penalty of perjury -- that they were citizens or qualified immigrants.

Now they must submit specified documents, such as birth certificates and
passports, which many have difficulty tracking down or paying for. The Bush
administration added to the difficulties by requiring people to submit original
documents or copies certified by the issuing agency, not simply other copies
they might have at hand.

The more stringent documentation was the brainchild of two Republican
congressmen from Georgia. Never mind that there was little evidence that illegal
immigrants were defrauding the program. Now the fruits of that policy are
becoming visible. As Robert Pear recently wrote in The Times, at least seven
states have reported declines in Medicaid enrollments and traced them to the new
requirements. It is hard to be sure how many illegal immigrants were screened
out, but state officials think the number is small. Florida believes that nearly
all of the people it has excluded for failure to produce documents are American
citizens.

The most appalling impact falls on infants born to illegal immigrants whose
deliveries were paid for by Medicaid. They are American citizens under the 14th
Amendment simply by virtue of being born here and used to be covered
automatically for a year. Now they must wait until their skittish parents obtain
a birth certificate before they can get vital infant care that should begin at
birth.

Congress needs to move quickly to fix this problem. At a minimum, every poor
infant born here ought to be automatically enrolled in Medicaid. Congress also
needs to simplify the Medicaid application process instead of making it more
onerous. That would be fairer to qualified applicants and could help reduce the
ranks of the uninsured.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For G.O.P., First Stop on '08 Trail Is Hotbed of Immigration Politics

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Rachel Swarns contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1544 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, March 17


Immigration, an issue that has divided Republicans in Washington, is
reverberating across the party's presidential campaign field, causing particular
complications for Senator John McCain of Arizona.

The topic came up repeatedly in recent campaign swings through Iowa by Mr.
McCain and Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, another Republican who, like Mr.
McCain, supports giving some illegal immigrants a path to citizenship, a
position that puts them at odds with many other conservatives. Both candidates
faced intensive questioning from voters on the issue, which has become more
prominent in the state as immigrants are playing a larger and increasingly
visible role in the economy and society.

''Immigration is probably a more powerful issue here than almost anyplace that
I've been,'' Mr. McCain said after a stop in Cedar Falls.

As he left Iowa, Mr. McCain said he was reconsidering his views on how the
immigration law might be changed. He said he was open to legislation that would
require people who came to the United States illegally to return home before
applying for citizenship, a measure proposed by Representative Mike Pence,
Republican of Indiana. Mr. McCain has previously favored legislation that would
allow most illegal immigrants to become citizens without leaving the country.

Beyond whatever influence it has as the state whose caucuses kick off the
presidential nominating contest, Iowa has become something of a laboratory for
the politics of immigration. Not only is it a place where industries like
meatpacking rely heavily on immigrant workers and where a once relatively
homogenous population is confronting an influx of Hispanic residents, but the
presidential candidates who are criss-crossing the state are also providing
forums for Iowans to express their views and influence national policy.

On Saturday morning in Des Moines, Mr. Brownback stood for 30 minutes at a
breakfast with Republicans as question after question -- without exception --
was directed at an immigration system that Iowans denounced as failing. ''These
people are stealing from us,'' said Larry Smith, a factory owner from Truro and
a member of the central committee of the state Republican Party.

Finally, Mr. Brownback, with a slight smile, inquired, ''Any other topics that
people want to talk about?''

''What are you going to do with illegal immigrants who come here and become
criminals?'' demanded Jodi Wohlenhaus, a Republican homemaker who lives outside
Des Moines.

The debate on the campaign trail is both reflecting and feeding the politics of
the issue in Washington. President Bush and the two parties in Congress have
been engaged in a three-way negotiation that has pitted demands from many
conservatives to concentrate first on improving border security against Mr.
Bush's call, backed by many Democrats, for a guest worker program that could
include a right for some illegal workers to eventually get legal status.

The issue has become much more complicated as the presidential campaign has
gotten under way, exposing the Republicans in particular to voters who are angry
about what they see as porous borders, growing demands from immigrants on the
social welfare and education systems and job losses that they link at least in
part to a low-wage labor force coming over the border.

Mr. McCain, for example, appeared to distance himself from Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat with whom he formed an alliance last year on
an immigration bill that stalled in Congress.

''What I've tried to point out is we couldn't pass the legislation,'' Mr. McCain
said. ''So we have to change the legislation so it can pass. And I've been
working with Senator Kennedy, but we've also been working with additional
senators, additional House members.''

Mr. McCain focused instead on the proposal by Mr. Pence, a conservative. ''Pence
has this touchback proposal,'' Mr. McCain said at a news conference. ''I said
hey, let's consider that if that's a way we can get some stuff.''

Mr. McCain's aides said his identification with Mr. Kennedy accounted for much
of his political problem on the issue with conservatives. One of his rivals for
the nomination, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, has taken to attacking
what he calls the McCain-Kennedy bill.

Mr. McCain has found himself particularly identified with this battle in no
small part because he is from a border state that is deeply divided over
immigration. The issue is not likely to recede, regardless of the outcome of the
debate in Washington: The Republican field of presidential candidates includes
Representative Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who has based his campaign on
an anti-immigration message and who will almost certainly participate in
Republican presidential debates starting this spring.

In a speech to conservatives in Washington two weeks ago, Mr. Romney said: ''The
current system is a virtual concrete wall against those who have skill and
education, but it's a wide open walk across the border for those that have
neither. And McCain-Kennedy isn't the answer.''

Mr. Romney did not always take that position. He was quoted in The Boston Globe
in November 2005 describing Mr. McCain's immigration initiatives as ''reasonable
proposals,'' though he stopped short of endorsing them, the newspaper said.

A third major Republican contender, Rudolph W. Giuliani, former mayor of New
York, has supported measures similar to the one Mr. McCain is pressing. Mr.
Giuliani has yet to campaign in Iowa and has not been pressed on his views on
immigration; he is scheduled to spend a week in Iowa at the beginning of April.

Mr. McCain's aides said they were confident that he could overcome concerns
among Iowa voters if he pointed to the enforcement mechanisms he supports,
arguing that only about one-third of Republican primary voters have strong-line
views on immigration. ''How are we dealing with it?'' said John Weaver, a senior
adviser to Mr. McCain. ''We're facing it head-on. John's position -- and the
president's position -- is widely supported by a vast majority of primary and
caucus voters.''

Republicans have a tougher view than the general population on whether illegal
immigrants should be deported, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll
conducted this month. In that poll, 49 percent of Republican respondents said
illegal immigrants who had lived in the United States for at least two years
should be given a chance to keep their jobs and eventually apply for
citizenship; 45 percent said they should be deported immediately. By contrast,
among the general electorate, 59 percent said they should be allowed to apply
for legal status, compared with 36 percent who said they should be deported.

The poll found that 31 percent of Republicans said immigration into the United
States should be kept at its current level, 14 percent said it should be
increased and a majority, 51 percent, said immigration should be decreased.
Those figures were similar to the finding among the general population.

Other Republicans said they thought Mr. McCain's identification with the push
for easing immigration laws could prove to be among his greatest
vulnerabilities. ''Senator McCain will be hurt badly if he continues to support
a bill like last time,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama. ''I
think he'll have a hard time defending that piece of legislation. I think it
would be important for him to demonstrate that his position on immigration is
not defined by the bill that he introduced last time.''

Nowhere does that appear to be more the case than here, a state crucial to Mr.
McCain's hopes of winning his party's nomination. A front-page article in The
Des Moines Register after the first day of Mr. McCain's bus trip here focused on
his defending his efforts on changing immigration laws.

Mr. Smith, the Republican Party central committee member, said Mr. McCain's
views on immigration had eliminated him as a contender in the view of many state
Republicans.

''I have a hard time appreciating McCain's position at all on this issue,'' Mr.
Smith said. ''I feel he's been extremely weak.''

''When I go county to county visiting 29 counties in my area, I believe almost
without exception that immigration is that issue that puts fire in their eyes,''
he said. ''They just really are livid that we have allowed this to happen to the
point it has.''

Mr. Brownback was reminded of that throughout the day on Saturday, including
during his march in the St. Patrick's Day Parade up Locust Avenue in Des Moines.
''We need to build a fence,'' Mike Clark, 38, a pig farmer, told Mr. Brownback
as he walked alongside him. ''We need to get them stopped.''

Mr. McCain's suggestion that he might be open to Mr. Pence's legislation
requiring most workers to return home risks alienating business, a powerful
constituency in the Republican Party.

''The business community has always been skeptical about any requirement to make
workers leave the U.S. to obtain legal status,'' said Laura Reiff, of the
Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, which represents service industries.
''We haven't ruled a Pence-like touchback completely out of the question, but it
would need to be an efficient, functional process.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Immigration is probably a more powerful issue here than
almost anyplace that I've been,'' Senator John McCain said on a recent trip to
Iowa. (Photo by Greg Brown/Associated Press)
 Senator Sam Brownback, right, with Pat Hickey at the St. Patrick's Day parade
in Des Moines, where he heard from voters on immigration. (Photo by Charlie
Neibergall/Associated Press)(pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 26, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Niagara Falls: Rescue From Ice Floe

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 96 words


An illegal immigrant trying to cross into the United States was rescued on
Saturday morning from an ice floe less than a mile upstream from Niagara Falls,
the authorities said yesterday. Guards at the Ontario Power Generation company's
water intakes on the Canadian side of the falls heard the man screaming for help
about 4:30 a.m., company officials told The Buffalo News. The 42-year-old man,
who was not identified by the authorities, was plucked from an ice floe by
rescuers in boats. The authorities said the man was trapped when the section of
ice he was on broke loose.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: Border Inspector Gets Prison Sentence

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 133 words


An American border inspector was sentenced to nearly six years in prison for
taking money and cars from smugglers, allowing them to shuttle illegal
immigrants from Mexico into the United States. The inspector, Richard Elizalda,
a 10-year veteran of Customs and Border Protection, worked at the San Ysidro
Port of Entry between Tijuana, Mexico, and San Diego. Investigators said Mr.
Elizalda sent text messages directing smugglers to his inspection lane, then
waved their vehicles through. In return, he received as much as $1,000 for each
immigrant, totaling $120,000 in cash starting in 2004. Mr. Elizalda was arrested
in June. Agents seized $36,170 in cash from his home, along with a Lexus and a
BMW given to him by the smuggling ringleaders. He pleaded guilty and had already
paid a $20,000 fine.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: Sentences In Immigrant Hiring

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 76 words


Two executives at a fence-building company were sentenced to six months of home
confinement for hiring illegal immigrants. The men, Mel Kay, founder, chairman
and president of the business, Golden State Fence Company of Riverside, and
Michael McLaughlin, a manager, had pleaded guilty to knowingly hiring illegal
immigrants. In addition, the two were sentenced to three years' probation. Also,
Mr. Kay was fined $200,000; McLaughlin agreed to pay $100,000.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 1, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pinning Immigration Badges on Police Officers

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words


The Morristown City Council was taking only an advisory vote last Tuesday night,
but it drew a crowd that spilled out into the lobby of town hall.

The council voted 6 to 1 to support a plan by the mayor in which city police
officers would be deputized and trained to serve as federal immigration agents.

Mayor Donald Cresitello wants the officers to train in a Department of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement program. Under federal statutes, the
officers would have the authority to charge suspects with immigration violations
and order them to appear in federal court, with the possibility of deportation.

Mr. Cresitello said Morristown, a city of 20,000, had seen a rise in crime and
quality-of-life issues as more illegal immigrants set up residency. ''For the
last 12 years the problem has been growing; for the last 6 it's been
overwhelming,'' said Mr. Cresitello, who said he thought about 1,500 illegal
residents were living in the city, many working as day laborers.

Mr. Cresitello said that initially he hoped to send 10 officers to train in the
federal program. Eventually, he said, he would like to have all 58 officers take
part.

''It's just another tool they will have to help do their jobs even better,'' Mr.
Cresitello said.

But Elissa Steglich, managing attorney of the immigrant rights program for the
American Friends Service Committee in Newark, said the plan would do nothing
''but breed fear and distrust and build discriminatory practices.''

Last Tuesday the American Friends Service Committee and other groups submitted
petitions to the mayor with more than 3,000 signatures from residents opposed to
the plan.

''Rather than this being a solution to crime, it could actually lead to more
crime,'' Ms. Steglich said, ''with residents afraid to call police in an
emergency because they could face deportation.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rep. Tancredo of Colorado Enters G.O.P. Presidential Race

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2008 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, April 2


Representative Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who has challenged his party
to take a stronger stance against illegal immigration, formally declared his
presidential candidacy here on Monday.

Mr. Tancredo held no rallies and delivered no political speeches on his first
day as an official candidate. Instead, he made his announcement on Iowa's most
prominent conservative radio talk show, saying he was entering the race because
no other Republicans were going to make illegal immigration ''the primary issue
of their campaign.''

''The great tradition of the melting pot in America is not working,'' Mr.
Tancredo said. ''The melting pot is cracked.''

In an hourlong appearance on the show on WHO-AM, Mr. Tancredo fielded questions
from the host, Jan Mickelson, as well as listeners, primarily on immigration.
Mr. Tancredo said he chose the venue -- followed by more than 20 interviews
throughout the day on stations across the country -- because talk radio had
helped advance his views.

''They're the ones who brought me into the party, so I'm going to dance with
them,'' he said. ''It has given me a megaphone I never would have had.''

Mr. Tancredo, 61, has served in Congress since 1999, representing the Sixth
District, largely south and east of Denver. For years, he has traveled across
the country speaking against proposals by President Bush and other Republicans
to initiate a guest-worker program to create a path for immigrants to live
legally in the United States.

He has focused much of his attention on Iowa, where the 2008 presidential race
begins next year and where discontent over illegal immigrants working in packing
plants and elsewhere has been percolating for years. His intention is to force
other Republican candidates, particularly Senator John McCain of Arizona, former
Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New
York, to address illegal immigration.

With Mr. Tancredo, the field of formally declared Republican candidates expanded
to six.

Mr. Tancredo made his announcement as other candidates began disclosing their
reports on fund-raising in the first quarter of 2007. He acknowledged that he
did not have the money his rivals would have.

''We have something they don't have: a group of people out there who are there
because of an issue,'' Mr. Tancredo said. ''They're never going to have that.
They can use their 100 million to try and buy constituency. I have it. It's
natural. It's there.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Raid Yields 62 Arrests In Illinois

BYLINE: By LIBBY SANDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 4


Immigration agents arrested two managers and 60 other employees of an industrial
cleaning company Wednesday on immigration violations and charges of identity
theft in an early morning raid at a meatpacking plant in central Illinois.

The operation was the latest in a string of raids by agents from Immigration and
Customs Enforcement on companies accused of employing illegal immigrants who, in
some cases, are alleged to have stolen the identities of American citizens to
create false identification documents.

The raid occurred at 1:30 a.m. at Cargill Meat Solutions in Beardstown, a town
of 6,000 people northwest of Springfield, where the cleaning company, Quality
Service Integrity Inc., was under contract to clean Cargill's pork processing
plant.

The two managers, who officials said are Mexicans in the United States
illegally, and 11 of the workers arrested Wednesday were charged with aggravated
identity theft. Identity theft charges were brought against 14 additional
employees of the cleaning service, but they have not yet been arrested, said
Gail Montenegro, a spokeswoman for the immigration agency.

Forty-nine employees were taken into custody for alleged immigration violations.
In all, 54 of the 62 people arrested are from Mexico; 5 are from Guatemala; 2
from El Salvador and 1 from Argentina, Ms. Montenegro said.

Eleven of the workers taken into custody were released on humanitarian grounds,
officials said.

Neither Cargill nor any of the 2,200 employees at its Beardstown facility were
objects of the investigation, officials said.

The two managers are Gerardo DominGuez-Chacon, who manages the cleaning
company's Beardstown operation, and Maria del Pilar Marroquin de Ramirez, the
company's personnel administrator. Both are charged in a criminal complaint with
aggravated identity theft and with ''aiding and abetting aggravated identity
theft in connection with the alleged hiring of illegal immigrants.'' If
convicted, they face at least two years in prison.

Prosecutors said that the two managers knowingly hired illegal immigrants and
that Mr. DominGuez-Chacon provided new employees with stolen identities and gave
illegal immigrants information on how to obtain false identification documents.

The cleaning service is described on a company Web site as a member of the
Vincit Group, which is based in Chattanooga, Tenn. A woman answering the
telephone at Vincit said no one was available to comment.

The investigation into the cleaning company's hiring practices began in January,
officials said, and revealed that most of the company's work force was illegal
immigrants.

In December, immigration agents raided six meat-processing plants operated by
Swift and Company in six states, detaining 1,282 immigrants believed to be in
the country illegally and charging 219 so far, mostly with identity theft.

Since the Swift raids, smaller raids have occurred in many states. Immigration
authorities say they are stepping up efforts to go after companies that engage
in the trafficking of false and stolen documents used by illegal immigrants to
obtain employment.

Last week, agents arrested 69 immigrants placed by a temporary job agency, Jones
Industrial Network, at work sites in the Baltimore area. In early March, more
than 360 people, including the owner and three managers, were arrested at
Michael Bianco Inc., a leather goods manufacturer in New Bedford, Mass.

Three days after the Massachusetts raid, charges were brought against the
president of Sun Drywall and Stucco, an Arizona construction company, and seven
managers accused of hiring illegal immigrants.

And in Michigan, federal prosecutors brought charges in February against three
executives of Rosenbaum-Cunningham International, a cleaning and maintenance
company, alleging that the three defrauded the federal government of more than
$18 million in employment taxes owed on behalf of hundreds of illegal immigrant
workers. Nearly 200 immigrant workers in 17 states and the District of Columbia
were arrested as part of the investigation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 7, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing New England: Massachusetts: Judge Puts Hold On Deportations

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 111 words


A Massachusetts judge temporarily barred federal officials from deporting a
group of illegal immigrants snared in a factory raid last month. The judge,
Richard G. Stearns of Federal District Court, granted an emergency request from
lawyers for the immigrants, who argued that about 110 of 360 workers arrested
might have agreed to waive an appeal of their deportation order under duress or
with improper translators. The order lasts 10 days and does not apply to
detainees who had been ordered deported before they were arrested in the March 6
raid at the Michael Bianco Inc. factory in New Bedford. The company makes
equipment and apparel for the American military.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Doctor's Index Predicts Fate For Migrants In the Desert

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, April 7


An emergency room physician has devised a scientific index to predict the
likelihood that illegal immigrants will die while walking through the Arizona
desert in extreme heat conditions.

The physician, Dr. Samuel Keim, concluded that the probability of death reached
50 percent when the temperature climbed to 104 degrees.

''It's like a weather forecast,'' said the Rev. Robin Hoover, whose Humane
Borders group maintains water stations at desert sites in southern Arizona and
northern Mexico. ''If he can forecast it to the U.S. Border Patrol, more of
their agents can be scattered out looking for people in trouble.''

Dr. Keim said he hoped to begin issuing daily forecasts by May, but he had not
determined how to disseminate the information and with whom to share it.

''We're still negotiating that with various different entities,'' he said,
declining to give specifics because of worries that the intense political debate
surrounding illegal immigration could scare off participants.

Deaths of migrants on the Arizona-Mexico border have soared in recent years as
tighter border security sends people to more-remote desert areas. Some migrants
cross 50 or more miles of desert.

In July 2005, Border Patrol agents recovered 72 dead illegal immigrants in the
agency's Tucson sector. Nearly all died from heat exposure.

Ron Bellavia, commander of the Border Patrol's rescue operations in the Tucson
area, said an index like Dr. Keim's ''would be an appropriate measure to
probably reduce exposure or environmental injuries.''

The forecasts could also be shared with groups near Mexican migrant-staging
areas, where the warnings could be posted, Mr. Hoover said.

For years, the Border Patrol and the Mexican government have issued
announcements about the desert's heat-related perils, but Dr. Keim said he did
not know whether migrants read or heeded them.

Dr. Keim matched heatstroke victims with dates of death and desert temperatures
using data collected from 2002 to 2006 in Pima County.

Dr. Keim, an associate professor at the University of Arizona and an emergency
room physician in Tucson, said that in recent years more than 100 adult male
immigrants had died of heatstroke annually in Pima County.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Raid on Immigrant Household Deepens Anger and Mistrust on L.I.

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words

DATELINE: EAST HAMPTON, N.Y.


Awakened by banging on the front door and the shouts of strangers inside her
family's sprawling suburban home, Erica Leon, 12, thought at first that the
house was on fire.

Then her bedroom door burst open, she said, and armed men in blue bulletproof
vests pushed in, demanding to know if she was hiding someone. They pressed on to
the room where 4-year-old Carson was asleep with their mother, and pulled off
the covers.

''They started screaming at my mom real bad,'' Erica said. ''I wasn't crying,
but I was, like, terrified. Like, who are you guys?''

They were federal immigration agents hunting for an illegal immigrant -- Erica's
long-absent father, Patrizio Wilson Garcia, who was ordered deported after his
2003 divorce from Erica's mother, Adriana, and has not lived in the house since.
But they had entered a three-generation immigrant household where everyone was
an American citizen by naturalization or birth.

To the Leon family, Hispanics who have owned their house here on Copeces Lane
for seven years, the early-morning raid on Feb. 20 seemed like the ultimate
indignity in a history of hostile scrutiny. But to some residents, it was an
overdue response by federal authorities to long-simmering concerns about illegal
immigration on Long Island's East End.

Since 2000, neighbors' complaints about the family's volleyball games, their
many cars, their living arrangements, even the fallen tree limbs in their yard,
have prompted more than 18 inspections by town code enforcers and repeated
surveillance by the town police, records show. Often officials found nothing to
cite; occasionally they issued notices of violations that ended in court fines.
Typically, the Leons complied with official demands, only to face fresh
complaints.

Federal immigration officials would not say what had prompted the raid, which
swept into four other East Hampton houses and rounded up three dozen illegal
immigrants. But the operation had nothing to do with town code enforcement, the
officials said, or with Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, who has won
national attention by vowing to move against illegal immigrants the federal
government ignores.

They also said Erica's grandmother let them in, providing consent for a search
that others in the household could not legally stop.

Residents on both sides see the raid -- the first in recent memory in this
wealthy beachfront community -- as the latest escalation in a wave of crackdowns
driven by complaints against immigrants at every level of government. And it
points to a sense of frustration in both camps that is making Suffolk County one
of the hotbeds of the nation's immigration debate.

''People here are fed up,'' said Richard Herrlin, a neighbor of the Leons' who
welcomed the raid and described himself as a builder of $20 million mansions.
''It's possible the feds showed up because the town officials have done nothing
for years, because the town is terrified of being accused of racial
insensitivity.''

For him and some others in the neighborhood, where large wooded lots and winding
roads bring to mind rural New England, irritation over what they described as
the Leons' noise, trash and traffic has fed on deeper anger over an influx of
Hispanic illegal immigrants on the East End. There are festering grievances
about taxes, schools crowded with Spanish speakers and homes turned into rooming
houses.

For the Leons and other immigrant families, meanwhile, confusion over what civil
rights, if any, apply in such raids heightens new feelings of vulnerability.

''Your house is supposed to be where you're safe, right?'' said Andres Leon, 22,
Erica's uncle. ''When you see police, you're supposed to feel protected. But the
way they acted, we don't feel protected; we feel violated.''

Ms. Leon, now remarried, had even obtained an order of protection against Mr.
Garcia before their divorce ended his temporary legal status and led to the
deportation order.

In a strange twist, that became the legal basis for a Fugitive Operations team
of seven agents to bang on the Leons' door at 5 a.m.

Like the family's American life, the house, on 3.8 acres in a middle-class
section, is still a work in progress. But it is now valued at about $1 million,
nearly four times what the Leons paid for it in 2000, before they added 70
percent more finished space, step by step, with earnings from housecleaning,
carpentry and a home beauty salon.

The first to arrive in the United States, more than 25 years ago, was Ramon
Leon, who works as a cabinetmaker for Central Kitchen Corporation in
Southampton. It took him years to win permanent residency under the 1986
immigration amnesty, and years more to bring his wife, Elena, and three children
-- Adriana, Jazmin and Andres -- to join him legally. Erica and her little
sister had to be left behind in Ecuador for seven years and joined their mother
only three years ago. The household now comprises six adults and five children.

By the spring of 2002, neighbors were complaining that two volleyball courts
built by the Leons had become the site of large, sometimes raucous sporting
events that drew dozens of people.

All over East Hampton, such games were a flashpoint between longtime residents
and Latino immigrants, whose numbers were soaring. And the clashes fueled
resentments that helped elect local politicians who promised to crack down on
illegal immigrants or ''quality of life'' violations.

Despite complaints and petitions, officials were unable to shut down the games.
At the Leons', for example, the East Hampton police reported no violations after
surveillance over a three-day weekend in 2002 found 15 to 40 people, most of
them playing volleyball; 20 vehicles ''all registered and legally parked''; and
''very little noise.''

But the games had stopped by 2004, after Adriana, 30, married Norman Aguilar,
who took over his father-in-law's share of the mortgage. ''I don't want any
problems,'' said Mr. Aguilar, who was born in Costa Rica and is a manager at a
newspaper distribution company, as well as an agent for a financial services
company, Primerica. ''I just want to live in peace.''

By then, however, neighborhood complaints seemed to have a life of their own.
When Jazmin Leon opened her one-chair home beauty salon -- allowed under the
residential code -- neighbors tried to shut it down over the scissors sign seen
through the picture window. When Mr. Aguilar painted a rock white, a neighbor
produced town surveys to show that it jutted over his property line by three or
four inches.

''My wife wanted to sell the house,'' Mr. Aguilar said. ''I told her no,
anywhere you go, you'll have the same problems. I feel like for us it's, like,
getting harder in this town. The laws that they're putting on us, it's, like,
against Hispanic people.''

Some residents say the town does not enforce codes the same way against city
people in time shares, or houses crowded with Irish summer workers.

''Profiling is not about who you raid, it's who you don't raid -- who gets the
winks and who gets the handcuffs,'' said Amado Ortiz, 60, an American-born
architect who joined the board of OLA, a Latino immigrant advocacy group, after
being ''radicalized,'' he said, by an increasingly anti-Hispanic climate.

William E. McGintee, the town supervisor, dismissed such complaints of bias as
''nonsense.''

''We don't have a large influx of illegal immigrants from Russia,'' he said.
''We have Ecuadoreans, we have Peruvians, we have Mexicans. We don't know who is
living in those houses; we get complaints, and it's complaint-driven.''

But the limited effect of such complaints only heightens the frustration of
residents like Lucinda Murphy, a registered nurse who volunteered that she and
her husband, Sean, a television news producer, had often called the police about
cars parked at the Leons'.

Ms. Murphy, who has three children, voiced larger misgivings about illegal
immigrants with children in the local school. She called them ''freeloaders.''

''I'm paying taxes, they're not,'' she said. ''Yet their kids still get to go to
school with the privileges of my kids. I resent it.''

City dwellers with weekend houses on Copeces Lane have also complained about the
Leons, upset that property values could be hurt by the less-upscale Latinos,
said Richard Dunn, 65, an East Hampton teacher.

''This is a town that's driven by money and real estate,'' he said. ''People who
are so concerned about Latinos feel they're being driven out.''

His own house is cleaned by Adriana Leon and her mother. ''I have nothing but
good feelings for them,'' he said.

On the morning of the raid, Mr. Aguilar, 40, had already left for work. He
returned to find the shaken family reading the Bible together in the kitchen.

For a time, the house became a gathering place for immigrants rounded up at
other houses that morning, who were mostly released with notices to appear at
deportation proceedings. Their accounts of the raids galvanized a group of local
clergy, Hispanic activists and even a religious organization based in Costa Rica
that flew in counselors.

''It would appear that in the war against terrorism, agents of our nation are
now acting in the role of terrorizers,'' the group of local clergy, East End
Clergy Concerned, wrote their congressman in a letter asking for an
investigation.

Mr. Aguilar tried to file a complaint about the raid with the town police but
was rebuffed. ''We don't conduct investigations on another law enforcement
agency,'' Todd Sarris, the chief of police, explained.

Nor was the raid a mistake, said Christopher Shanahan, director of deportation
and removal for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the New York region.

''We would like to find fugitive aliens at 100 percent of the locations we go
to, but it's not an exact science,'' he said.

No records are kept to show how often the teams find the fugitives they are
seeking. And the rules for the searches are murky.

Unlike a criminal search warrant, which requires a judge to review the evidence
and find probable cause for a search, the ''administrative warrant'' used by
immigration agents is approved only by the team's supervisor -- and is valid
only with the consent of the occupants, Mr. Shanahan said.

But in what he described as standard practice, that consent bears little
resemblance to what laymen or constitutional scholars expect. Once Erica's
grandmother let agents over the threshold, Mr. Shanahan said, there was no
turning back.

''Due to officer safety needs, they can look into other areas, to clear rooms,''
he said. But he added: ''If officers did something to humiliate people, I want
to know about it. We are very adamant that we want our officers to be
professional.''

On a recent afternoon, back from a seventh-grade civics lesson on the separation
of powers, Erica spoke about what had changed since the raid.

''My mom wanted me to sleep in her room so I wouldn't be scared,'' she said.
''Sometimes, we have heard, they take parents away from the children, or they
take children from the parents.''

When the agents left, she remembered, ''they said they might come back.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adriana Leon, right, and her daughter Erica, 12, both from
Ecuador, were asleep when Fugitive Operations agents came to their home on Feb.
20. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)
Doing schoolwork around the table are Kevin Aguilar, 14, left
his half-brother, Carson Aguilar, 4, right
 and a cousin, Kevin Leon Clavijo, 10. (pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 14, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, Through Many Lenses

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 533 words


To the Editor:

According to ''Bush on the Border'' (editorial, April 11), the president
displayed his understanding of the immigration issue when he said ''America
suffers from a system that exploits people who come to do jobs that citizens
won't do.''

But many of these jobs are shunned because of the abysmal compensation more than
because of the nature of the work.

This conception of immigration merely perpetuates the gross income inequalities
in our society, which in turn reinforces the perception of low-paid immigrants
as second class. Without just compensation, everyone is exploited by such jobs,
immigrant and citizen alike.  Ed White Knoxville, Tenn., April 11, 2007  To the
Editor:

Re ''Bush Ties Drop in Illegal Immigration to His Policies'' (news article,
April 10):

The absence of an organized process to manage the influx of illegal immigrants
to the United States is understood. It is frequently expressed by the White
House. But when will the politicians and the public address the chaotic
immigration process available for legal immigrants?

Millions of legal immigrants (including me) have been standing in line for years
in hope of citizenship. The route to citizenship is painful, unreasonable and
impractical.

I am not against managing the influx of illegal immigrants. But legal immigrants
deserve a practical answer to their immigration miseries.  Sonali Wickremaratne
Atlanta, April 10, 2007  To the Editor:

The immigration debate focuses upon the ''usual suspects'': the millions of
undocumented aliens in the United States (and what we ought to do about them).
But let's not forget about other possible elements in a sound and creative
immigration package.

Presumably, there are countless children of ''genius'' languishing,
undiscovered, in the third world. Why not start a pilot program, with the
cooperation of home governments, to search out and identify such youngsters and
give them an opportunity to come to America with their parents and be educated
here?

Their governments could be enticed by financing and by retaining an option to
educate half the ''discovered'' at home. As to the children who accept the
chance to come to the United States, surely they would enrich us with their
talent as we empowered them and taught them about America.  Arthur Landever
Cleveland, April 11, 2007  The writer is a professor at the Cleveland-Marshall
College of Law, Cleveland State University.  To the Editor:

''U.S. Raid on an Immigrant Household Deepens Anger and Mistrust on L.I.'' (news
article, April 10) illustrates the ugly xenophobia, racism, classism and
cultural intolerance underlying the anti-immigrant furor that has swept the
country.

It appears that the Leon family was targeted by both local and federal
authorities chiefly for the ''offense'' of being relatively poor Hispanics in
the wealthy Hamptons.

What is particularly egregious is that many prosperous people who object so
loudly to the presence of Hispanic immigrants have no problem with such
immigrants -- legal or illegal -- when they are cleaning the houses of the
affluent, mowing lawns or doing construction work, all for low wages.  John S.
Koppel Bethesda, Md., April 10, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Safe Haven in New Haven

BYLINE: By Michele Wucker.

Michele Wucker is the author of ''Lockout: Why America Keeps Getting Immigration
Wrong When Our Prosperity Depends on Getting It Right.''

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 748 words


AS Washington tussles over the fate of the nation's estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants, municipal governments are taking sides. Places like
Morristown, N.J., and Danbury are cracking down. Others, like New Haven and New
York City, are embracing their undocumented workers.

City councils can't change the federal government's failed immigration policies,
but they can choose whether to offset or intensify the damage. According to the
Migration Policy Institute at New York University, United States municipalities
passed 34 laws last year tightening the screws on undocumented immigrants; 56
more such measures are pending.

But the costs of the crackdown cure -- high legal fees, damage to local
businesses, scarce police resources wasted, the negative impact on public safety
of keeping undocumented immigrants underground and the social division -- are
far worse than the supposed illness.

The officials pushing these crackdowns say they are doing so because of the
burden imposed on government services by illegal immigrants. But if businesses
close for lack of customers or workers, a town's tax base will fall and it will
have to reduce the services that it provides.

Last year, Riverside, N.J., voted to fine anyone who knowingly rents to or hires
illegal immigrants, becoming one of the first municipalities to pass such an
ordinance. Many of those towns now complain that immigrants -- with and without
papers -- have packed up and left, causing worker shortages. And businesses have
had to close because of a lack of customers.

These policies have imposed other costs in the form of steep legal fees. In New
Jersey, Freehold Borough ended up agreeing to pay as much as $278,000 to settle
a lawsuit over an anti-loitering law aimed at preventing day laborers from
soliciting employment in public places. In a similar case in New York, legal
bills for the village of Mamaroneck are estimated in the hundreds of thousands
of dollars.

The direct and indirect costs of cracking down did not escape the notice of Long
Island's Suffolk County legislators, who in late March voted down a similar
anti-loitering bill. Almost immediately after the defeat, calm-headed proposals
surfaced for setting up designated hiring sites while addressing residents'
quality-of-life objections.

Yet recent federal immigration raids in East Hampton, N.Y., including one on a
household of American citizens of Ecuadorean descent, are evidence of unresolved
tensions on Long Island. In Morristown and Danbury, where residents are deeply
divided about whether local police officers should be enforcing federal
immigration rules, protests have erupted.

A much better approach would be for municipalities to follow New Haven's lead.
This summer, the city expects to become the first place in the nation to allow
undocumented immigrants to apply for municipal identification cards identifying
them as city residents. The cards, equipped with a debit chip, will be useful
for all residents by facilitating access to municipal services like the public
beach, the library, the dump and parking.

New Haven is also providing financial literacy and tax filing help to
immigrants. It expects the ID's to reduce crime by widening access to bank
accounts so that residents do not have to hide money in mattresses or carry it
on them, making them easy targets for muggers.

Furthermore, officials hope that their ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy, which
prevents the police from inquiring about immigration status, will encourage
undocumented residents to feel more comfortable reporting crimes and coming
forward with information. What's more, it will allow law enforcement to focus
scarce resources on fighting violent crime, a task that police officers widely
prefer to chasing illegal immigrants.

New Haven and the dozens of other so-called sanctuary cities -- which include
Newark, New York and Trenton -- base their approach on the theory that bringing
undocumented residents out of the shadows benefits everyone.

Morristown and Danbury could learn from New Haven's sensible approach.
Identifying residents, encouraging them to trust the police and providing access
to needed services makes sense.

New Haven understands that citizens themselves benefit when all residents feel
they have a stake and are not pariahs. A place is far better off when people
want to come to it than if they are fleeing in fear, and when practical
solutions take precedence over mean-spirited non-solutions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Safe Haven in New Haven

BYLINE: By Michele Wucker.

Michele Wucker is the author of ''Lockout: Why America Keeps Getting Immigration
Wrong When Our Prosperity Depends on Getting It Right.''

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 744 words


AS Washington tussles over the fate of the nation's estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants, municipal governments are taking sides. Places like
Morristown and Danbury, Conn., are cracking down. Others, like New Haven and New
York City, are embracing their undocumented workers.

City councils can't change the federal government's failed immigration policies,
but they can choose whether to offset or intensify the damage. According to the
Migration Policy Institute at New York University, United States municipalities
passed 34 laws last year tightening the screws on undocumented immigrants; 56
more such measures are pending.

But the costs of the crackdown cure -- high legal fees, damage to local
businesses, scarce police resources wasted, the negative impact on public safety
of keeping undocumented immigrants underground and the social division -- are
far worse than the supposed illness.

The officials pushing these crackdowns say they are doing so because of the
burden imposed on government services by illegal immigrants. But if businesses
close for lack of customers or workers, a town's tax base will fall and it will
have to reduce the services that it provides.

Last year, Riverside voted to fine anyone who knowingly rents to or hires
illegal immigrants, becoming one of the first municipalities to pass such an
ordinance. Many of those towns now complain that immigrants -- with and without
papers -- have packed up and left, causing worker shortages. And businesses have
had to close because of a lack of customers.

These policies have imposed other costs in the form of steep legal fees.
Freehold Borough ended up agreeing to pay as much as $278,000 to settle a
lawsuit over an anti-loitering law aimed at preventing day laborers from
soliciting employment in public places. In a similar case in New York, legal
bills for the village of Mamaroneck are estimated in the hundreds of thousands
of dollars.

The direct and indirect costs of cracking down did not escape the notice of Long
Island's Suffolk County legislators, who in late March voted down a similar
anti-loitering bill. Almost immediately after the defeat, calm-headed proposals
surfaced for setting up designated hiring sites while addressing residents'
quality-of-life objections.

Yet recent federal immigration raids in East Hampton, N.Y., including one on a
household of American citizens of Ecuadorean descent, are evidence of unresolved
tensions on Long Island. In Morristown and Danbury, where residents are deeply
divided about whether local police officers should be enforcing federal
immigration rules, protests have erupted.

A much better approach would be for municipalities to follow New Haven's lead.
This summer, the city expects to become the first place in the nation to allow
undocumented immigrants to apply for municipal identification cards identifying
them as city residents. The cards, equipped with a debit chip, will be useful
for all residents by facilitating access to municipal services like the public
beach, the library, the dump and parking.

New Haven is also providing financial literacy and tax filing help to
immigrants. It expects the ID's to reduce crime by widening access to bank
accounts so that residents do not have to hide money in mattresses or carry it
on them, making them easy targets for muggers.

Furthermore, officials hope that their ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy, which
prevents the police from inquiring about immigration status, will encourage
undocumented residents to feel more comfortable reporting crimes and coming
forward with information. What's more, it will allow law enforcement to focus
scarce resources on fighting violent crime, a task that police officers widely
prefer to chasing illegal immigrants.

New Haven and the dozens of other so-called sanctuary cities -- which include
Newark, New York and Trenton -- base their approach on the theory that bringing
undocumented residents out of the shadows benefits everyone.

Morristown and Danbury could learn from New Haven's sensible approach.
Identifying residents, encouraging them to trust the police and providing access
to needed services makes sense.

New Haven understands that citizens themselves benefit when all residents feel
they have a stake and are not pariahs. A place is far better off when people
want to come to it than if they are fleeing in fear, and when practical
solutions take precedence over mean-spirited non-solutions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Safe Haven in New Haven

BYLINE: By Michele Wucker.

Michele Wucker is the author of ''Lockout: Why America Keeps Getting Immigration
Wrong When Our Prosperity Depends on Getting It Right.''

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 749 words


AS Washington tussles over the fate of the nation's estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants, municipal governments are taking sides. Places like
Morristown, N.J., and Danbury, Conn., are cracking down. Others, like New Haven
and New York City, are embracing their undocumented workers.

City councils can't change the federal government's failed immigration policies,
but they can choose whether to offset or intensify the damage. According to the
Migration Policy Institute at New York University, United States municipalities
passed 34 laws last year tightening the screws on undocumented immigrants; 56
more such measures are pending.

But the costs of the crackdown cure -- high legal fees, damage to local
businesses, scarce police resources wasted, the negative impact on public safety
of keeping undocumented immigrants underground and the social division -- are
far worse than the supposed illness.

The officials pushing these crackdowns say they are doing so because of the
burden imposed on government services by illegal immigrants. But if businesses
close for lack of customers or workers, a town's tax base will fall and it will
have to reduce the services that it provides.

Last year, Riverside, N.J., voted to fine anyone who knowingly rents to or hires
illegal immigrants, becoming one of the first municipalities to pass such an
ordinance. Many of those towns now complain that immigrants -- with and without
papers -- have packed up and left, causing worker shortages. And businesses have
had to close because of a lack of customers.

These policies have imposed other costs in the form of steep legal fees. In New
Jersey, Freehold Borough ended up agreeing to pay as much as $278,000 to settle
a lawsuit over an anti-loitering law aimed at preventing day laborers from
soliciting employment in public places. In a similar case in New York, legal
bills for the village of Mamaroneck are estimated in the hundreds of thousands
of dollars.

The direct and indirect costs of cracking down did not escape the notice of Long
Island's Suffolk County legislators, who in late March voted down a similar
anti-loitering bill. Almost immediately after the defeat, calm-headed proposals
surfaced for setting up designated hiring sites while addressing residents'
quality-of-life objections.

Yet recent federal immigration raids in East Hampton, N.Y., including one on a
household of American citizens of Ecuadorean descent, are evidence of unresolved
tensions on Long Island. In Morristown and Danbury, where residents are deeply
divided about whether local police officers should be enforcing federal
immigration rules, protests have erupted.

A much better approach would be for municipalities to follow New Haven's lead.
This summer, the city expects to become the first place in the nation to allow
undocumented immigrants to apply for municipal identification cards identifying
them as city residents. The cards, equipped with a debit chip, will be useful
for all residents by facilitating access to municipal services like the public
beach, the library, the dump and parking.

New Haven is also providing financial literacy and tax filing help to
immigrants. It expects the ID's to reduce crime by widening access to bank
accounts so that residents do not have to hide money in mattresses or carry it
on them, making them easy targets for muggers.

Furthermore, officials hope that their ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy, which
prevents the police from inquiring about immigration status, will encourage
undocumented residents to feel more comfortable reporting crimes and coming
forward with information. What's more, it will allow law enforcement to focus
scarce resources on fighting violent crime, a task that police officers widely
prefer to chasing illegal immigrants.

New Haven and the dozens of other so-called sanctuary cities -- which include
Newark, New York and Trenton -- base their approach on the theory that bringing
undocumented residents out of the shadows benefits everyone.

Morristown and Danbury could learn from New Haven's sensible approach.
Identifying residents, encouraging them to trust the police and providing access
to needed services makes sense.

New Haven understands that citizens themselves benefit when all residents feel
they have a stake and are not pariahs. A place is far better off when people
want to come to it than if they are fleeing in fear, and when practical
solutions take precedence over mean-spirited non-solutions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Safe Haven in New Haven

BYLINE: By Michele Wucker.

Michele Wucker is the author of ''Lockout: Why America Keeps Getting Immigration
Wrong When Our Prosperity Depends on Getting It Right.''

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 746 words


AS Washington tussles over the fate of the nation's estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants, municipal governments are taking sides. Places like
Morristown, N.J., and Danbury, Conn., are cracking down. Others, like New Haven
and New York City, are embracing their undocumented workers.

City councils can't change the federal government's failed immigration policies,
but they can choose whether to offset or intensify the damage. According to the
Migration Policy Institute at New York University, United States municipalities
passed 34 laws last year tightening the screws on undocumented immigrants; 56
more such measures are pending.

But the costs of the crackdown cure -- high legal fees, damage to local
businesses, scarce police resources wasted, the negative impact on public safety
of keeping undocumented immigrants underground and the social division -- are
far worse than the supposed illness.

The officials pushing these crackdowns say they are doing so because of the
burden imposed on government services by illegal immigrants. But if businesses
close for lack of customers or workers, a town's tax base will fall and it will
have to reduce the services that it provides.

Last year, Riverside, N.J., voted to fine anyone who knowingly rents to or hires
illegal immigrants, becoming one of the first municipalities to pass such an
ordinance. Many of those towns now complain that immigrants -- with and without
papers -- have packed up and left, causing worker shortages. And businesses have
had to close because of a lack of customers.

These policies have imposed other costs in the form of steep legal fees. In New
Jersey, Freehold Borough ended up agreeing to pay as much as $278,000 to settle
a lawsuit over an anti-loitering law aimed at preventing day laborers from
soliciting employment in public places. In a similar case in New York, legal
bills for the village of Mamaroneck are estimated in the hundreds of thousands
of dollars.

The direct and indirect costs of cracking down did not escape the notice of
Suffolk County legislators, who in late March voted down a similar
anti-loitering bill. Almost immediately after the defeat, calm-headed proposals
surfaced for setting up designated hiring sites while addressing residents'
quality-of-life objections.

Yet recent federal immigration raids in East Hampton, including one on a
household of American citizens of Ecuadorean descent, are evidence of unresolved
tensions on Long Island. In Morristown and Danbury, where residents are deeply
divided about whether local police officers should be enforcing federal
immigration rules, protests have erupted.

A much better approach would be for municipalities to follow New Haven's lead.
This summer, the city expects to become the first place in the nation to allow
undocumented immigrants to apply for municipal identification cards identifying
them as city residents. The cards, equipped with a debit chip, will be useful
for all residents by facilitating access to municipal services like the public
beach, the library, the dump and parking.

New Haven is also providing financial literacy and tax filing help to
immigrants. It expects the ID's to reduce crime by widening access to bank
accounts so that residents do not have to hide money in mattresses or carry it
on them, making them easy targets for muggers.

Furthermore, officials hope that their ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy, which
prevents the police from inquiring about immigration status, will encourage
undocumented residents to feel more comfortable reporting crimes and coming
forward with information. What's more, it will allow law enforcement to focus
scarce resources on fighting violent crime, a task that police officers widely
prefer to chasing illegal immigrants.

New Haven and the dozens of other so-called sanctuary cities -- which include
Newark, New York and Trenton -- base their approach on the theory that bringing
undocumented residents out of the shadows benefits everyone.

Morristown and Danbury could learn from New Haven's sensible approach.
Identifying residents, encouraging them to trust the police and providing access
to needed services makes sense.

New Haven understands that citizens themselves benefit when all residents feel
they have a stake and are not pariahs. A place is far better off when people
want to come to it than if they are fleeing in fear, and when practical
solutions take precedence over mean-spirited non-solutions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 15, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Leaves Mexico With Optimism, but No Agreements

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1003 words

DATELINE: MERIDA, Mexico, March 14


President Bush left Mexico on Wednesday without reaching concrete agreements
with the new Mexican president on a host of issues, from greater cooperation on
attacking drug traffic to extending protections for Mexican farmers who grow
corn and beans.

But as he sought to mend ties with Mexico, Mr. Bush vowed to step up his efforts
to persuade Congress to approve a bigger guest worker program for Mexican
migrants and to provide a path to citizenship for millions of immigrants living
in the United States illegally, most of them from Mexico and Central America.

Mr. Bush said that the mood in Congress had changed and that he was optimistic
that he could persuade moderate Senate Republicans to join Democrats to overhaul
immigration laws. He said the proposed changes would create a border where trade
would flow freely but criminals and terrorists would face stiff obstacles.

''A good migration law will help both economies and will help the security of
both countries,'' Mr. Bush said at a news conference here with President Felipe
Calderon. ''If people can come into our country, for example, on a temporary
basis to work, doing jobs Americans aren't doing, they won't have to sneak
across the border.''

The meetings with Mr. Calderon were on the last stop on Mr. Bush's weeklong tour
of Latin America. At every stop, the American president tried to highlight the
positive things the United States had done in the region, promoting democracy
and free trade and providing $1.6 billion in foreign aid.

Mr. Bush's tour was widely seen in Latin America as an attempt to counter the
growing influence of Hugo Chavez, the leftist populist president of Venezuela.
Mr. Chavez has been undermining United States influence in the region, using his
country's vast oil wealth to build an anti-Washington coalition of left-leaning
heads of state.

Mr. Calderon is a conservative free trade advocate, but he made it clear at the
news conference that he would remain neutral in the ideological battle. He said
he would seek to re-establish full diplomatic ties with Venezuela, which were
downgraded by his predecessor, Vicente Fox, a staunch ally of the United States.

''We are respectful of the heads of state of other countries, such as Venezuela,
and certainly the United States,'' Mr. Calderon said.

On trade, the two leaders did not resolve the thorny issue of protections for
small farmers here that are to expire next year. Mr. Bush said it would be a
mistake to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, as many leftists
here want.

Nor did the presidents make much real progress in coordinating the fight against
drug dealers, though Mr. Bush did praise Mr. Calderon's tough stance against
traffickers and pledged to do more to reduce the demand for drugs in the United
States.

But the main focus of the talks appeared to be the perennial problem of illegal
immigration -- more than 400,000 Mexicans cross the border without papers each
year.

Mr. Calderon has sharply criticized the United States for plans to build a
700-mile wall along the border. He maintains that policies aimed at bringing
more investment to Mexico would be a better strategy to slow illegal
immigration.

For his part, Mr. Bush, dogged by a scandal over the firings of federal
prosecutors, seemed to embrace a chance to talk about immigration. He used the
news briefing to send separate messages to his American and Mexican audiences.

He said his efforts to change immigration laws had been thwarted by the
widespread perception in the United States that the current laws were not being
enforced. That perception has changed, he maintained, as Congress and his
administration have taken measures to deport more illegal immigrants and to
fortify the border, posting 6,000 members of the National Guard as sentinels.

He called on his fellow Republicans opposed to his guest worker plan to get
behind it now that he has addressed their concerns about border security. He
said he had dispatched his homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, and
his commerce secretary, Carlos Gutierrez, to negotiate with Republicans, and
suggested that the talks were focused on what to do about illegal immigrants
already in the country.

''There's got to be a middle ground, a reasonable way to deal with the 12
million people or so that have been in our country for a period of time,'' Mr.
Bush said. ''And that's where a lot of the discussions are taking place. And I
think we can find a rational way forward, somewhere in between automatic
citizenship and kicking people out of the country.''

Mr. Bush also had a message for his Mexican audience, urging patience as the
American legislative process plays out. ''I don't know about Mexico, Mr.
President,'' Mr. Bush said with a wry smile, ''but sometimes legislators, you
know, debate issues for a while before a solution can be achieved.''

The differences of perspective on either side of the border were evident at the
news conference, which was broadcast live on national radio here. A Mexican
reporter asked Mr. Bush why people should believe that he could deliver a
temporary-worker program after having failed to do so for six years. An American
reporter asked Mr. Calderon if his relatives working in America were there
legally, a question for which Mr. Calderon had a poignant answer.

''Yes, I do have family in the United States, and what I can tell you is that
these are people who work and respect that country,'' he said, his voice going
misty. ''They pay their taxes to the government. These are people who work in
the field, they work with -- in the fields with vegetables. They probably handle
what you eat, the lettuce, et cetera.''

''I am from Michoacan,'' he went on, ''and in Michoacan we have four million
people. Two million of these Michoacan natives are in the States. We want them
to come back. We want them to find jobs here in Mexico. We miss them. These are
our best people. These are bold people. They're young. They're strong. They're
talented.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the United States Air National Guard waited for
cement to be poured for the foundation of a fence on the border with Sonora,
Mexico. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inmates Will Replace Wary Migrants in Colorado Fields

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 947 words

DATELINE: DENVER, March 3


As migrant laborers flee Colorado because of tough new immigration restrictions,
worried farmers are looking to prisoners to fill their places in the fields.

In a pilot program run by the state Corrections Department, supervised teams of
low-risk inmates beginning this month will be available to harvest the swaths of
sweet corn, peppers and melons that sweep the southeastern portion of the state.

Under the program, which has drawn criticism from groups concerned about
immigrants' rights and from others seeking changes in the criminal justice
system, farmers will pay a fee to the state, and the inmates, who volunteer for
the work, will be paid about 60 cents a day, corrections officials said.

Concerned about the possible shortage of field labor, Dorothy B. Butcher, a
state representative from Pueblo and a supporter of the program, said, ''The
workers on these farms do the weeding, the harvesting, the storing, everything
that comes with growing crops for the market.''

''If we can't sustain our work force, we're going to be in trouble,'' said Ms.
Butcher, a Democrat.

The program will make its debut in Pueblo County, where farmers have been hit
hard by the labor shortage. Frank Sobolik, director of a Colorado State
University extension program that works with farmers in Pueblo County, said he
expected that about half of the 300 migrant workers employed by area farms might
not return this season.

''There's a feeling, a perception that these laborers won't be back because it's
safer for them to find work in other states,'' Mr. Sobolik said. ''The farmers
are really concerned. These are high-value crops we're talking about here with a
high labor requirement.''

Last year, the Colorado General Assembly passed tough legislation that included
giving local law enforcement broader powers to check immigration status and
restricting access to social services for workers without proper documentation.

The Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition estimates that there are 150,000 illegal
immigrants in Colorado, many of them involved in agriculture. Migrant workers
typically travel here from Mexico, Texas and New Mexico for the crop season,
where their labor can last from May through the late fall, before returning home
to their families. But those numbers could soon be reduced drastically, as
workers who are in the country illegally are unwilling to risk exposing their
status.

Joe Pisciotta Jr., who owns a 700-acre produce farm in Pueblo County, said he
had about 20 workers and expected to lose half of them. Mr. Pisciotta, a
third-generation farmer, worried that such a reduction would undercut his
ability to supply buyers with the watermelons, onions and pumpkins he grows.

''It's very frustrating,'' he said. ''I'm definitely going to lose customers.
We've never had an issue like this. With all of us trying to get enough workers
on our farms, I'm worried this is going to turn into farmer against farmer.''

Although chain gangs and prison farms have long been staples of American
correctional culture, the concept of inmates working on private farms is
unusual. But there are signs that other states are following suit. The Iowa
Department of Corrections is considering a similar program because of a migrant
labor shortage in that state.

Several Iowa farmers called recently to request inmates in lieu of migrant
workers, said Roger Baysden, the director of the state's prison industries
program. One farmer asked for as many as 200 inmates, Mr. Baysden said.

In Colorado, Ms. Butcher said she hoped that the program, which could send up to
100 inmates to Pueblo County farmers, would remedy a situation that might
otherwise turn into an economic disaster.

Immigrant rights group, however, said the Colorado program was myopic.

''Many immigrants are leaving Colorado for other states that will actually
embrace their contributions as good citizens and hard workers,'' said Julien
Ross, state coordinator for the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition. ''This
exodus from Colorado has profound negative consequences on our economy and the
very fabric of our society.''

Mr. Ross said his group was organizing a weeklong boycott of Colorado businesses
beginning March 25 to demonstrate the workers' impact on the regional economy.

A group calling for changes in sentencing, the Colorado Criminal Justice Reform
Coalition, is also uneasy about the program. The group views the inmates' pay as
problematic.

''This feels like the re-invention of the plantation,'' said Christie Donner,
the group's executive director. ''You have a captive labor force essentially
working for their room and board in order to benefit the employer. This isn't a
job training program. It's an exploitative program.''

But Ari Zavaras, executive director of the Colorado Department of Corrections,
said the merit of a hard day's work outdoors was invaluable to an inmate.

''They won't be paid big bucks, but we're hoping this will help our inmates pick
up significant and valuable job skills,'' Mr. Zavaras said. ''We're also
assisting farmers who, if they don't get help, are facing an inability to
harvest their crops.''

With the start of the farming season looming, Colorado's farmers are scrambling
to figure out which crops to sow and in what quantity. Some are considering
turning to field corn, which is mechanically harvested. And they are considering
whether they want to pay for an urban inmate who could not single out a ripe
watermelon or discern between a weed and an onion plant.

''This is not a cure-all,'' Mr. Pisciotta said. ''What our farm laborers do is a
skill. They're born with it, and they're good at it. It's not an easy job.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Pisciotta Jr., a farmer in Pueblo County, is concerned about
finding enough migrant workers under Colorado's tougher immigration laws. (Photo
by Tom Kimmell for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. SET TO BEGIN A VAST EXPANSION OF DNA SAMPLING

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words


The Justice Department is completing rules to allow the collection of DNA from
most people arrested or detained by federal authorities, a vast expansion of DNA
gathering that will include hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, by far
the largest group affected.

The new forensic DNA sampling was authorized by Congress in a little-noticed
amendment to a January 2006 renewal of the Violence Against Women Act, which
provides protections and assistance for victims of sexual crimes. The amendment
permits DNA collecting from anyone under criminal arrest by federal authorities,
and also from illegal immigrants detained by federal agents.

Over the last year, the Justice Department has been conducting an internal
review and consulting with other agencies to prepare regulations to carry out
the law.

The goal, justice officials said, is to make the practice of DNA sampling as
routine as fingerprinting for anyone detained by federal agents, including
illegal immigrants. Until now, federal authorities have taken DNA samples only
from convicted felons.

The law has strong support from crime victims' organizations and some women's
groups, who say it will help law enforcement identify sexual predators and also
detect dangerous criminals among illegal immigrants.

''Obviously, the bigger the DNA database, the better,'' said Lynn Parrish, the
spokeswoman for the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network, based in
Washington. ''If this had been implemented years ago, it could have prevented
many crimes. Rapists are generalists. They don't just rape, they also murder.''

Peter Neufeld, a lawyer who is a co-director of the Innocence Project, which has
exonerated dozens of prison inmates using DNA evidence, said the government was
overreaching by seeking to apply DNA sampling as universally as fingerprinting.

''Whereas fingerprints merely identify the person who left them,'' Mr. Neufeld
said, ''DNA profiles have the potential to reveal our physical diseases and
mental disorders. It becomes intrusive when the government begins to mine our
most intimate matters.''

Immigration lawyers said they did not learn of the measure when it passed last
year and were dismayed by its sweeping scope.

''This has taken us by storm,'' said Deborah Notkin, a lawyer who was president
of the American Immigration Lawyers Association last year. ''It's so broad, it's
scary. It is a terrible thing to do because people are sometimes detained
erroneously in the immigration system.''

Immigration lawyers noted that most immigration violations, including those
committed when people enter the country illegally, are civil, not criminal,
offenses. They warned that the new law would make it difficult for immigrants to
remove their DNA profiles from the federal database, even if they were never
found to have committed any serious violation or crime.

Under the new law, DNA samples would be taken from any illegal immigrants who
are detained and would normally be fingerprinted, justice officials said. Last
year federal customs, Border Patrol and immigration agents detained more than
1.2 million immigrants, the majority of them at the border with Mexico. About
238,000 of those immigrants were detained in immigration enforcement
investigations. A great majority of all immigration detainees were
fingerprinted, immigration officials said. About 102,000 people were arrested on
federal charges not related to immigration in 2005.

While the proposed rules have not been finished, justice officials said they
were certain to bring a huge new workload for the F.B.I. laboratory that logs,
analyzes and stores federal DNA samples. Federal Bureau of Investigation
officials said they anticipated an increase ranging from 250,000 to as many as 1
million samples a year.

The laboratory currently receives about 96,000 samples a year, said Robert Fram,
chief of the agency's Scientific Analysis Section.

DNA would not be taken from legal immigrants who are stopped briefly by the
authorities, justice officials said, or from legal residents who are detained on
noncriminal immigration violations.

''What this does is move the DNA collection to the arrest stage,'' said Erik
Ablin, a Justice Department spokesman. ''The general approach,'' he said, ''is
to bring the collection of DNA samples into alignment with current federal
fingerprint collection practices.'' He said the department was ''moving forward
aggressively'' to issue proposed regulations.

The 2006 amendment was sponsored by two border state Republicans, Senator Jon
Kyl of Arizona and Senator John Cornyn of Texas. In an interview, Mr. Kyl said
the measure was broadly drawn to encompass illegal immigrants as well as
Americans arrested for federal crimes. He said that 13 percent of illegal
immigrants detained in Arizona last year had criminal records.

''Some of these are very bad people,'' Mr. Kyl said. ''The number of sexual
assaults committed by illegal immigrants is astonishing. Right now there is a
fingerprint system in use, but it is not as thorough as it could be.''

Ms. Parrish, of the rape victims' organization, pointed to the case of Angel
Resendiz, a Mexican immigrant who was known as the Railroad Killer. Starting in
1997, Mr. Resendiz committed at least 15 murders and numerous rapes in the
United States. Over the years of his rampage, Mr. Resendiz was deported 17
times. He was executed in Texas in June.

''That was 17 missed opportunities to collect his DNA,'' Ms. Parrish said. ''If
he had been identified as the perpetrator of the first rapes, it would have
prevented later ones.''

Immigration lawyers said the DNA sampling could tar illegal immigrants with a
criminal stigma, even though most of them have never committed any criminal
offense.

''To equate somebody with a possible immigration violation in the same category
as a suspected sex offender is an outrage,'' said David Leopold, an immigration
lawyer who practices in Cleveland.

Forensic DNA is culled either from a tiny blood sample taken from a fingertip
(the F.B.I.'s preferred method) or from a swab of the inside of the mouth.
Federal samples are logged into the F.B.I.'s laboratory, analyzed and
transformed into profiles that can be read by computer. The profiles are loaded
into a database called the National DNA Index System.

The F.B.I. also loads DNA profiles from local and state police into the federal
database and runs searches. Only seven states now collect DNA from suspects when
they are arrested; of those, only two states are authorized by their laws to
send those samples to the federal database.

Mr. Neufeld, of the Innocence Project, said his group supported broad DNA
collection from convicted criminals. But, he said, ''There is no demonstrable
nexus between being detained for an immigration matter and the likelihood you
are going to commit some serious violent crime.''

The DNA amendment has divided women's groups that are usually unified supporters
of the Violence Against Women Act, which was adopted in 1994.

''We were stunned by the extraordinary, broad sweep of this amendment,'' said
Lisalyn Jacobs, vice president for government relations at Legal Momentum, a law
group founded by the National Organization for Women. Ms. Jacobs recalled that
the amendment had been adopted by a voice vote with little debate. She said many
lawmakers eager to renew the act, which enjoys solid bipartisan support,
appeared unaware of the scope of the DNA amendment.

''The pervasive problems of profiling in the United States will only be
exacerbated by such a system,'' Ms. Jacobs said, because Latino and other
immigrants will be greatly over-represented in the database. She noted that the
law required a court order to remove a profile from the system.

Many groups warned that the measure would compound already severe backlogs in
the F.B.I.'s DNA processing. Mr. Fram of the F.B.I. said there had been an
enormous increase in the samples coming to the databank since it started to
operate in 1998, but no new resources for the bureau's laboratory. Currently
about 150,000 DNA samples from convicted criminals are waiting to be processed
and loaded into the national database, Mr. Fram said.

He said the laboratory had added robot technology to speed the processing. But
in the ''worst case scenario,'' where the laboratory receives one million new
samples a year, Mr. Fram said, ''there is going to be a bottleneck.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Protection Rules Draw Fire

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1348 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 9


Dr. Stephen B. Turner built a profitable business here by providing low-cost
''immigrant medical exams,'' including immunizations and blood tests, to
hundreds of newcomers to America. Many of his clients did not speak English, but
they paid in cash, spending a total of nearly $250,000 at Dr. Turner's practice
from 2003 to 2005.

It was only later, after a tip from a suspicious client, that the San Francisco
police and the district attorney's office learned the truth: Dr. Turner had been
throwing out his clients' blood samples and injecting them with ''inoculations''
of saline.

Kamala D. Harris, the San Francisco district attorney, said the case, which led
to a seven-year prison term for Dr. Turner, was one of many her office had been
able to pursue under San Francisco's so-called sanctuary policy, which forbids
police and city officials from asking people they encounter in the course of an
investigation about their immigration status. It is a protection Ms. Harris says
has made immigrants -- legal and illegal -- more willing to come to forward
about crimes.

With immigration continuing to flare and frustrate as a national political
issue, sanctuary cities like San Francisco may soon be the next battlefront.
Critics argue that sanctuary policies discourage the police from enforcing laws,
though about 50 cities and counties have enacted variations on sanctuary,
according to the National Immigration Law Center. They include Detroit, Los
Angeles, New York and Washington. A handful of states have similar policies,
including Alaska, Maine and Oregon.

Conservative legal groups and politicians have begun to challenge such policies.
Yet on the other side, cities like Chicago have announced they will avoid
involving their police in issues that smack of federal immigration enforcement.
And while a federal proposal to punish sanctuary cities recently failed to
become law, some states have passed laws discouraging sanctuary policies.

''To say to a law enforcement official, if you encounter a foreign national who
is in this country illegally and you believe that information would be of use
and benefit to federal authorities, that you can't call them, that's just
wrong,'' said Representative John Campbell, Republican of California, who
authored a provision in the federal Homeland Security bill that would have
denied federal antiterrorism money to cities with sanctuary policies. The
provision passed the House, but was not part of the bill eventually signed by
President Bush.

But even with Democrats in control of Congress, immigration hard-liners say the
issue is here to stay.

''It's mind-blowing for us to see taxpayer dollars spent to subsidize criminal
activity -- that's the end result,'' said Christopher J. Farrell, director of
research for Judicial Watch, a conservative legal group that is suing the Los
Angeles Police Department over its sanctuary rule.

Some states have also taken up the issue. In Colorado, a law signed by the
governor in May prevents localities from passing ordinances that stop officials
or police from communicating or cooperating with federal officials on
immigration.

Other states have taken up larger immigration issues involving local cooperation
with the federal authorities. A Georgia law enacted in April authorizes the
state to enter into an agreement with federal officials to train and certify
state law enforcement officials to enforce immigration. The Georgia law also
requires the police to make a ''reasonable effort'' to determine the legal
status of those they arrest for felonies or drunken driving.

Both the Colorado and Georgia laws include some protections against and stiffer
penalties for exploitation of illegal immigrants.

In September, a sanctuary debate erupted in Houston after an illegal immigrant
was accused of killing a police officer. Shelley Sekula-Gibbs, a Republican city
councilwoman who ran for Congress as an unsuccessful write-in candidate in place
of former Representative Tom DeLay, called on the mayor to declare the city
off-limits to illegal immigrants.

''Terrorists, drug runners and cartel members could be among us, and police
officers are not allowed to check their identities,'' Ms. Sekula-Gibbs wrote in
an e-mail message to supporters. ''Why? Because some politicians fear that
asking people who have no ID about their legal status might intimidate all
illegals into not reporting crimes. This policy of appeasement must be
stopped.''

Craig E. Ferrell Jr., general counsel for the Houston Police Department, said
the city did not have a formal sanctuary policy. But he said a tangle of laws --
police codes and legal decisions, including those involving racial profiling and
the Fourth Amendment guarantee against unlawful search and seizure -- required
caution by police officers.

''We're not just trying to be obstructionist or not trying to help,'' Mr.
Ferrell said. ''What we're against is the federal government mandating that
local enforcement be initiated without addressing these issues.''

Sanctuary supporters have pushed back. In San Francisco, Supervisor Gerardo C.
Sandoval -- who authored a resolution affirming the city's policy, which dates
to 1989 -- said the federal government was simply trying to pass the buck for
failing to secure federal borders.

''If they want to enforce the law,'' Mr. Sandoval said, ''they should put troops
on the ground to do that.''

Lt. Paul Vernon, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department, which has
operated under sanctuary guidelines since 1979, said, ''We didn't want people to
fear cooperating with police.'' Lieutenant Vernon added, ''And the local police
department job is not to enforce the federal immigration law.''

An organization of police chiefs, the Major Cities Chiefs Association, said that
requiring the local police to enforce immigration policy did not ''take into
full account the realities of local law enforcement dealing with this issue on
the ground.'' The association said its concerns included a lack of authority,
training, and resources, as well as risks of liability.

Advocates for illegal immigrants, meanwhile, said they feared that getting rid
of sanctuary rules would encourage immigrant communities not to report crime,
including human and drug trafficking, prostitution, domestic violence, and even
terrorism.

''Once the police are seen as agents of the immigration service, it discourages
and deters immigrant communities from going to the police,'' said Lucas
Guttentag, the director of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil
Liberties Union. ''There's a whole mixture of people in these communities --
some recent, some illegal -- and its going to cause the entire community to fear
going to the police if they feel going to the local cop is essentially going to
the immigration service.''

But opponents say localities should be forced to participate in solving some of
the problems that accompany illegal immigration.

''You can't have it both ways,'' said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, which lobbies for stronger
immigration enforcement. ''If you want to harbor people who are in the country
illegally, you can't expect to have federal funds for issues that arise from
having illegal people in your community.''

Sanctuary policies are often less sweeping than opponents make them out to be.
In San Francisco, for example, where resources cannot be used in immigration
investigations, the police can inquire about immigration status in felony or
drug cases.

Joan Friedland, an immigration lawyer for the National Immigration Law Center,
said the concept of sanctuary cities was often misunderstood and that it gave
the impression that such cities were lawless havens for illegal immigrants.

''It's not like people, if they are charged with a crime, they just escape
immigration,'' Ms. Friedland said. ''Even the cities that have ordinances
limiting inquiries about immigration status cooperate and are in touch with the
Department of Homeland Security when a serious crime is involved.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: District Attorney Kamala D. Harris supports the city's
sanctuary rule.
 In San Francisco, Kavitha Sreeharsha, left, a lawyer, with a translator and a
client at Asian Pacific Islander Legal Outreach, a group that has been active in
fighting human trafficking and other abuses in the Bay Area. (Photographs by Jim
Wilson for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Sanctuary Laws''23 states and several
cities have enacted laws or have legislation pending that limit the information
that can be obtained or disclosed concerning a person's immigration status.Map
of the United States highlights the aforementioned states.(Source by The
National Immigration Law Center)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Good Thing We Citizens Aren't Tested

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN.

E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words


They were lucky devils, the bunch that came over on the Mayflower in 1620. The
immigration laws were a good deal laxer back then. Nobody made those people take
a citizenship test before they could join the club.

These days, we are more selective about whom we let in. You can't simply be some
guy in a funny hat with a buckle in front. To be one of us, you need to pass an
exam. It has been that way for quite a while. But now, for the first time in 20
years, the government is tweaking the questions it will ask of immigrants who
want to become citizens.

A new test will be given a dry run starting next month, with volunteers quizzed
in 10 cities across the country. Surprisingly, New York City is not among the
10. Who has more immigrants than we do?

Nothing personal, said Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for Citizenship and
Immigration Services, the federal agency in charge of the exam. A computer
picked the cities, she said yesterday, and besides, ''there are a lot of other
areas in this country that have rich diversity.''

That they do. We self-centered New Yorkers will have to content ourselves with
Albany's standing in for us.

In the new exam, the emphasis will shift somewhat from raw facts to broad
concepts. People will be asked, for example, not only what the three branches of
government are but also why we have three branches. The idea is to see whether
budding Americans understand underlying principles of our democracy.

In other words, we expect them to be better than the rest of us.

Better than we who prove our love of democracy by not voting in vast numbers.
Preliminary figures for last month's elections, which only charted the country's
possible direction in wartime, showed a national voter turnout of about 40
percent.

Better than we who are far more able to name the Three Stooges than to identify
the three branches of government.

That's not a joke. A Zogby International poll several months ago showed that 74
percent of Americans (and 62 percent of New Yorkers) knew Larry, Curly and Moe,
but only 42 percent (39 percent in New York) could list the executive,
legislative and judicial branches.

How about this: A mere 24 percent of Americans could name two United States
Supreme Court justices, while 77 percent could name two of Snow White's seven
dwarfs. That might be worth bearing in mind for a question on the new test about
who the chief justice is.

In fairness, ''you don't sit and talk about the nine Supreme Court justices
every day at lunch,'' said Fritz Wenzel, a spokesman for Zogby. You're more
likely to talk about new movies. ''In that respect, the results were somewhat
predictable,'' Mr. Wenzel said. He paused before adding, ''but alarming
nonetheless.''

As we said, perhaps the new Americans will be better than the rest of us. Still,
some of the revised test's 144 questions, ultimately pared to 100, could give
them problems.

Question No. 125 on the citizenship agency's Web site (www.uscis.gov) seems off
the mark. What is the longest river in the United States? The Web site's
suggested answer is the Mississippi. But by some reckonings, the Missouri River
is longer.

Question No. 61 could prove tricky. It asks which political party -- as of next
month, remember -- holds the Senate majority. The approved answer is the
Democrats. That is correct -- that is, unless the Senate's new independent
member, Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, pivots to his right and waves the
Democrats goodbye.

On a more philosophical note, Question No. 71 asks, ''What is self-government?''
Two possible answers are provided: ''Powers come from the people'' and
''government responds to the people.'' Hmm. Under those definitions, would you
say that Iraq truly has self-governance?

Question No. 82 calls on would-be citizens to ''name two ways that Americans can
participate in their democracy.'' Ten possibilities are offered, among them
voting, joining a political party and running for office. Ignored is one of the
most fruitful ways used by some Americans: call the likes of Jack Abramoff.

Plenty of time remains, though, to work out the kinks.

By the way, you test takers in Albany, make all of us in New York proud. If
asked next month for the three branches of government, remember that this is a
national exam. Don't tell them an essential New York truth, that the three
branches of government are Spitzer, Bruno and Silver.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Rejects Interpretation Of Immigration Drug Law

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 911 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5


The Supreme Court rejected the government's interpretation of immigration law on
Tuesday, ruling that a noncitizen is not subject to mandatory deportation for a
drug crime that, while a felony in the state where the crime was prosecuted, is
only a misdemeanor under federal law.

The 8-to-1 decision restored to one category of immigrants, caught in the nearly
impenetrable maze where immigration law and criminal law meet, the ability to
avoid automatic deportation and the other dire consequences of being guilty of
an ''aggravated felony.''

The category is made up of immigrants convicted of simple drug possession in
states that treat those offenses as felonies. Federal law treats possession in
most instances as a misdemeanor. But in the government's view, possession when
deemed a felony under state law became a ''drug trafficking crime,'' which under
federal immigration law is an ''aggravated felony'' that strips an immigrant of
the right to seek relief from automatic deportation, to seek asylum, or ever to
return legally to the United States.

Writing for the majority on Tuesday, Justice David H. Souter said the
government's interpretation was based on a strained and implausible reading of
the definition of ''drug trafficking crime'' in the federal criminal code.

Thousands of immigrants every year might benefit from the ruling, according to
Jayashri Srikantiah, a law professor who heads the Immigrants' Rights Clinic at
Stanford Law School and who filed a brief on behalf of Jose Antonio Lopez, the
immigrant whose Supreme Court appeal led to the decision, Lopez v. Gonzales, No.
05-547.

In an interview, Ms. Srikantiah said the decision was informed by ''a sense of
proportionality'' and of the ''real world consequences'' of subjecting legal
residents convicted of minor offenses to automatic deportation.

The Immigration and Nationality Act contains a list of aggravated felonies that
includes ''a drug trafficking crime.'' This phrase, in turn, is defined not in
the immigration law, but in the criminal code as ''any felony punishable under
the Controlled Substances Act,'' the basic federal narcotics law.

The government's position was that ''any felony'' meant any crime that was
considered a felony either under federal law or in the state where the
prosecution took place. In this way, a conviction for simple possession could
become a drug trafficking offense and hence an aggravated felony, which is what
happened to Mr. Lopez.

A Mexican who was a permanent legal resident of the United States, Mr. Lopez
pleaded guilty in a South Dakota state court to aiding and abetting another
person's possession of cocaine. That crime is a felony in South Dakota, although
the analogous offense is a misdemeanor under federal law.

Mr. Lopez served 15 months in state prison and was then placed in federal
deportation proceedings as an aggravated felon. After unsuccessfully contesting
the designation before the immigration service and the United States Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in St. Louis, he was deported to Mexico.

The Supreme Court's decision makes Mr. Lopez eligible to apply for the
administrative relief from deportation known as ''cancellation of removal,'' an
option that was foreclosed by his designation as an aggravated felon.

In analyzing the government's position that any offense ''punishable'' under the
Controlled Substances Act therefore became a ''drug trafficking'' felony,
Justice Souter said that ''there are a few things wrong with this argument, the
first being its incoherence.'' While ''trafficking'' ordinarily meant ''some
sort of commercial dealing,'' he said, ''commerce, however, was no part of
Lopez's South Dakota offense of helping someone else to possess.''

Justice Souter continued that while the government's argument appeared
implausible, that was ''not to deny that the government might still be right;
Humpty Dumpty used a word to mean 'just what he chose it to mean -- neither more
nor less,' and legislatures, too, are free to be unorthodox.''

But in this instance, he said, if Congress meant to define drug trafficking in
such an ''unexpected'' way, ''Congress would need to tell us so, and there are
good reasons to think it was doing no such thing here.''

Justice Souter said that under the government's interpretation, a central part
of federal immigration law, deportation, would depend not on a federal judgment
about the seriousness of an offense, but on ''varying state criminal
classifications.'' He added, ''We cannot imagine that Congress took the trouble
to incorporate its own statutory scheme of felonies and misdemeanors if it meant
courts to ignore it whenever a state chose to punish a given act more heavily.''

The court's conclusion was that ''a state offense constitutes a 'felony
punishable under the Controlled Substances Act' only if it proscribes conduct
punishable as a felony under that federal law.''

Justice Clarence Thomas was the lone dissenter, observing in his opinion that
''without doubt, Congress could have written the definition with this
limitation, but it did not.''

This was not the first time the Supreme Court has resisted a categorical
interpretation of immigration law by the executive branch. In a unanimous
opinion two years ago, the court ruled that contrary to the government's view,
driving under the influence of alcohol was not a ''crime of violence'' for which
an immigrant could be subjected to automatic deportation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 12, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Irish Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 206 words



To the Editor:

Re ''How Green Was My Rally,'' by Lawrence Downes (The City Life, Dec. 10):

I'm sorry that Mr. Downes didn't stay for the full meeting of the Irish Lobby
for Immigration Reform. If he had, he might have heard Mary, an undocumented
immigrant from County Kerry, describe how after her brother's death in a car
accident in Ireland, she held a wake without a body in the Bronx because she
could not return home.

He might have heard Samantha relay her elderly parents' heartbreak that their
daughter cannot join them again in Dublin this Christmas because she is
undocumented.

He might have also heard that out of 1.2 million green cards issued last year,
Ireland got about 2,000, and that there is no legal way for the Irish to
emigrate here anymore.

These are serious issues, and ones that my organization was set up to address.
We make no apology for doing so, the same as the Hispanic or any other lobby
should make no apology for advocating for its people.

We have forged a very good working relationship with other ethnic groups through
our active membership in Comprehensive Immigration Reform Now, the leading
umbrella immigration group.

Niall O'Dowd
Chairman, Irish Lobby
for Immigration Reform
New York, Dec. 10, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Swift Raids

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 546 words


When federal immigration officials raided six plants owned by Swift & Company,
the world's second largest beef and pork processor, last Tuesday, they brought
Spanish translators. They knew exactly what kind of worker is found in
low-paying, strenuous jobs in this country: recent Latino arrivals with limited
skills and, in many cases, no legal papers. Nearly 1,300 people -- almost 10
percent of Swift's work force -- were taken away in what the government said was
the largest but not the last assault on the underground immigrant economy.

The raids have led some people to heap scorn on Swift and, of course, on the
illegal immigrants, particularly the dozens of detainees who have been charged
with identity theft and other crimes. But doing so misses the bigger picture.
Swift and its workers are merely Exhibit A in an immigration system that is
failing in all of its parts.

It is a system that rewards illegality and pays lip service to lawfulness and
order.

Swift insists that it is a model corporate citizen. It obeyed the rules, which
require it to check workers' identity papers and file so-called I-9 forms
attesting to that. And it went further, participating in the federal Basic Pilot
program, a system of checking Social Security numbers that President Bush has
touted as a way to crack down on immigration fraud. The company says that prying
any more aggressively into workers' legal status would leave it open to civil
rights lawsuits.

The Swift raids are powerful evidence that I-9's and Basic Pilot are ineffective
and disingenuous, a nod to by-the-books technical lawfulness that allows a far
vaster world of illegality to flourish. Swift and other large-scale employers of
immigrants, like farms and hotels, may insist that they never knowingly hire
people illegally. But as long as the jobs they offer are the kinds whose pay and
conditions consistently fail to attract native-born Americans, their protests
will ring hollow. This system is brilliantly efficient at bringing lots of cheap
products and services to market, which is great unless you mind its essential
lawlessness, anonymity and reliance on an enormous work force of silent,
compliant, frightened people whose bitter choice is to stay here illegally or go
home and be desperately poor.

Swift, by its lights, was doing the right thing. The federal government was
doing the right thing, waking up, belatedly, to workplace enforcement. And yet
it's impossible to see how this will work over the long term. Immigration reform
built on piecemeal enforcement -- factory raids and border walls -- won't solve
the problem of the 12 million illegal immigrants already here. The American
economy wouldn't stand the shock if the Swift raids were multiplied to levels
beyond the merely symbolic.

The system needs what Mr. Bush and Congress have refused to give it: a way to
end the sham. Comprehensive immigration reform is good for the economy, giving
companies access to a secure and stable work force. It is good for national
security, allowing law enforcement to go after real criminals and leave honest
working people alone. And it is good for the immigrant workers across the
country, terrorized by Tuesday's raids, who just want to keep doing their jobs,
no matter how hard and distasteful.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California Letter Investigated For Warning to Immigrants

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 781 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 17


Federal and state authorities are trying to determine who sent a letter to some
Latinos in Southern California that falsely suggested that it would be a crime
for immigrants to vote in the coming election.

The letter, written in formal, sometimes clumsy Spanish and signed ''Sergio
Ramirez,'' was mailed last week to an undetermined number of people with Spanish
surnames in Orange County, the authorities said. It advised recipients that ''if
you're an immigrant, voting in a federal election is a crime that can result in
incarceration,'' or deportation.

While illegal immigrants are barred from voting, legal immigrants who have
become citizens are permitted to do so.

The letter also stated that the federal government had installed a computer
system to verify the names of new registered voters who vote in October and
November and that anti-immigration groups would be able to access that
information. Election Day is Nov. 7, but early voting is allowed Oct. 20-29 in
Orange County.

Cynthia Magnuson, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, which along with the
California attorney general's office is investigating the letter's source, said
there was no such database.

''The letter contains false information,'' Ms. Magnuson said.

The letter was printed on stationery labeled with the name of the California
Coalition for Immigration Reform, a strident anti-illegal-immigration group
whose Web site features a video on how illegal immigrants bring disease to the
United States.

But Barbara Coe, the group's leader, told The Los Angeles Times, which first
reported the letter on Tuesday, that her group had not sent or authorized it,
and that she did not know a Sergio Ramirez. On Tuesday, Ms. Coe did not return
repeated phone calls and e-mail seeking comment.

Some Latino leaders expressed doubts on Tuesday about Ms. Coe's denial and said
they suspected the letter was part of a concerted, long-term effort on the part
of groups like hers to intimidate voters.

''They're taking as much action as they can to make the lives of Latinos as
miserable as possible,'' said Brent Wilkes, the national executive director of
the League of United Latin American Citizens, a civil rights group.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger called the letter racist and urged Bill Lockyer, the
California attorney general, to prosecute those responsible with a hate crime. A
collection of other civil rights groups also called on Attorney General Alberto
R. Gonzales to investigate the letter as a violation of federal voting laws.

Nathan Barankin, a spokesman for Mr. Lockyer, said his office had been alerted
to the letter on Monday morning, after a weekend in which Latino leaders fielded
calls from outraged constituents.

''They could be naturalized citizens or they could be fourth-generation
Californians,'' Mr. Barankin said of the recipients. ''What we do know is that
some of the recipients of this letter are legal and longtime registered voters
in California.''

Mr. Barankin said the letter could have violated two California laws. One bans
the use of coercion or intimidation in an effort to prevent someone from voting;
the other makes it illegal to knowingly challenge a person's right to vote on
fraudulent and spurious grounds.

It was unclear, Mr. Barankin said, how many of the letters were distributed, but
his office expected more complaints.

''We're going to determine who sent it, and why they sent it and then from that,
if there's enough evidence to prosecute,'' Mr. Barankin said.

Orange County, between Los Angeles and San Diego, has seen a substantial
increase in its Latino population over the last two decades. A 2005 estimate by
the Census Bureau reported that nearly one in three Orange County residents was
of Latino or Hispanic origin.

Representative Loretta Sanchez, a Democrat from Garden Grove, in northern Orange
County, said that she had heard from a handful of constituents in her district
who received a letter, and that she feared it could scare off first-time voters.

''Santa Ana and Anaheim are the new Ellis Island of the United States,'' Ms.
Sanchez said, mentioning two Orange County cities with large Latino populations.
''New people are becoming citizens every day, and who knows the sophistication
level when they get a letter like this?''

But others thought the letter would have little effect.

''I think Latino voters are astute enough not to be intimidated,'' said John
Trasvina, the interim president and general counsel for the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund in Los Angeles. ''And they've seen the same
tactics used against them in the recent past as well as the farther ago past.
And they won't take it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suit Seeks Data on Immigration Profiling of Arabs

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 518 words


In an effort to establish whether the government is using prohibited profiling
methods against Arab-Americans and Muslims, a civil rights group filed a suit
yesterday against the Homeland Security Department and one of its branches,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The suit, by the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, asked the Federal
District Court in the District of Columbia to compel the immigration agency
under the Freedom of Information Act to release the nationalities of 237 people
arrested for immigration violations in October 2004.

The agency announced the arrests at the time in an effort to disrupt possible
terrorist threats in the presidential elections.

Over the past two years, two previous requests by the committee to obtain the
information through standard channels failed. Refusing to release the
nationalities leaves open a possibility that immigration laws are being
disproportionately enforced against Arab-Americans and Muslims, said Kareem
Shora, the new executive director of the committee, which is based in
Washington. The organization is not seeking individuals' names or their
dispositions in the courts.

In one letter denying the previous requests, the immigration agency said
releasing the information would harm its law enforcement efforts by divulging
where it was concentrating its resources.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Dean Boyd, would not
elaborate on that statement. Mr. Boyd did restate that the agency did not
enforce immigration laws on the basis of race, religion or ethnic origin.

More than 160,000 individuals were deported last year ''from virtually every
country around the globe,'' he added.

Arab-Americans and American Muslims have widespread suspicions that the
spotlight is focused on them regarding accusations of terrorism, particularly
around any election season, to spread concern among other voters and to
intimidate them from speaking out. Mr. Boyd strongly objected to the idea that
political considerations were involved in any aspect of enforcing immigration
law.

''We conduct enforcement actions every day and certainly don't time them for any
political reason,'' he said, adding that the months leading up to an important
event like elections were an obvious time to step up law enforcement.

The antidiscrimination committee's request was in part prompted by a news
release from the immigration agency that gave the nationalities of eight men who
were arrested, and six were Arabs, Mr. Shora said.

Three databases that track immigrants were used, he said, and one has mostly
Arabs or Muslims. Mr. Shora was referring to the National Security Entry-Exit
Registration System, a hastily created database that tracks visitors, students
and immigrants from 25 countries after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

All those 25 countries except North Korea have Muslim or Arab majorities, and
the 80,000 men who registered were overwhelmingly Arabs and Muslims. Using that
database, the committee says, would mean unfairly enforcing immigration laws
amid just one community and violate the laws against profiling.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 27, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Asylum Hearing Adjourned

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 104 words


After three hours of testimony behind closed doors yesterday, an immigration
judge adjourned a hearing in the case of a young woman seeking asylum from
Guinea's practice of female genital mutilation. The delay, until March 1,
disappointed supporters of Adama Bah, 18, who had hoped for a decision on her
petition. Ms. Bah had been detained and questioned by federal agents who
asserted that she was a potential suicide bomber -- an assertion that was
dropped when she was released in May 2005. But she still faces deportation to
Guinea, which she left at age 2, because her childhood visa is invalid.    NINA
BERNSTEIN (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 27, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Immigration Officers Charged

BYLINE: NYT; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 119 words


Two federal immigration officers were charged yesterday with participating in a
scheme to provide citizenship in exchange for bribes, federal prosecutors said.
The officers, Jimmie Ortega, a former supervisory officer at the federal
Citizenship and Immigration Services office in New York, and Oscar Fabregas, a
supervisory officer in the same office, were charged with conspiracy, said
Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney in Manhattan. Mr. Ortega, who
retired in April, is charged with receiving bribes of $1,500 to $4,000 for
arranging the naturalization of at least 20 immigrants ineligible for
citizenship. Mr. Fabregas is charged with falsely attesting that the
applications met federal requirements.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 17, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials
BELL, STEVEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 196 words


BELL--Steven, The Law Firm of Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy, LLP mourns the
death of its long time friend and colleague Steven C. Bell, November 14, 2006,
at age 55. Steve was an attorney and prolific writer and speaker on US
Immigration issues. He was co author, with Austin T. Fragomen, Jr, of numerous
highly regarded publications in the field, including the Immigration Procedures
Handbook, the H-1B Handbook, Immigration Law and Business, and the Labor
Certification Handbook (Thomson West). He was a long time member of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, and a graduate of New York University Law
School and the University of Pennsylvania. Early in his career, he was an
associate with the firm, before turning to writing full time. Steve was also
involved in the cause of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender rights. He most
recently served as a dedicated volunteer at the Ali Forney Center, a nonprofit
agency providing housing, outreach, medical and psycological care, and other
services to homeless gay and lesbian youth. The firm sends its condolences to
Steve's sister and brother in law, Cynthia and Russell Thompson, and nieces Amy
and Alyssa.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: U.S. Moves To Deport 45 Sex Offenders

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 116 words


Federal immigration agents yesterday arrested and began deportation proceedings
against 45 foreign-born New Yorkers who have committed sex offenses against
children, immigration officials said. People from 19 countries were arrested in
the operation. The arrests are the latest in a series that began when the City
Probation Department started sharing information with federal agents about sex
offenders who were out of jail but eligible for deportation. The immigrants were
arrested after they appeared for visits with probation officers. Immigration
officials said 20 of those arrested were in the country illegally. Some will be
entitled to hearings before immigration judges, the officials said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Georgia Legislator's Wife Battles Deportation Order

BYLINE: By BRENDA GOODMAN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Dec. 1


The wife of a Georgia legislator known for his strong support of immigrants'
rights is in hiding after federal agents came to their home on Tuesday with an
order to deport her to her native Colombia, her lawyer said.

In a written statement issued on Wednesday, State Senator Curt Thompson, 37, a
Democrat, said his wife, Sascha Herrera, 28, missed an immigration-related court
hearing in February 2005. Mr. Thompson said notices about an asylum application
that had been mistakenly filed on her behalf had been sent to the wrong address,
causing her to miss the hearing.

Because Ms. Herrera did not appear in court, a federal judge issued a
deportation order in February 2005, Charles H. Kuck, Ms. Herrera's immigration
lawyer, said on Friday.

Mr. Kuck said Mr. Thompson told him that his wife was not at the couple's home
when Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrived on Tuesday to take her
into custody. Mr. Kuck would say only that Ms. Herrera was in a safe place.

''We're making an arrangement, we hope, for her to come in Monday morning,'' Mr.
Kuck said, adding that he would try to persuade an immigration judge to reopen
Ms. Herrera's case.

It is usually difficult to get an immigration case reopened, several experts
said.

Advocates of immigrants' rights say Ms. Herrera's situation is another
indication of how byzantine is the system for applying for legal residency in
this country.

''It's a very, very onerous system,'' said State Senator Sam Zamarripa, a
Democrat who was the first Hispanic elected to the Georgia Senate. ''If the wife
of a state senator can't handle it, how can we expect people who are working in
our labor force to handle the bureaucracy?''

''This is going to take a U.S. congressman or a senator to step in,'' Mr.
Zamarripa said. ''To say, let's wait a minute. Let's think about this. This is a
good person who deserves to be in this country.''

Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Washington, said he could not comment on the specifics of Ms. Herrera's case.
Generally, Mr. Raimondi said, ''People who are here legally are very, very
careful about their immigration status.'' Of the couple's claims of ignorance
about the notices, he said, ''It sounds like a lot of song and dance.''

In his statement, Mr. Thompson also said his wife was the victim of an
unscrupulous ''notario.'' In some Spanish-speaking countries, a ''notario
publico'' is a highly regarded lawyer with special power to negotiate with the
government. In the United States, however, a ''notario'' is often a notary
public with no special expertise in immigration law. Some notaries, however,
advertise themselves within Latino communities and take advantage of the
similarity between the two titles to charge high fees to file immigration
paperwork with the government.

Mr. Kuck said Ms. Herrera originally paid $1,300 to the notary, whom he
identified as Tomas Vilela, to help her file paperwork to extend her visitor's
visa so she could take classes at Kennesaw State University, just north of
Atlanta.

Mr. Vilela recommended that she apply for asylum, Mr. Kuck said, and had her
sign the last page of an application. But after she received an F-1 student
visa, for which university officials had helped her apply, Ms. Herrera
instructed Mr. Vilela not to file the application, Mr. Kuck said.

Mr. Kuck said that Mr. Vilela filed the forms anyway, and that because the
paperwork listed the address of his business, all subsequent letters from
immigration officials were sent there, not to Ms. Herrera's home. Mr. Thompson's
statement said the notary did not forward the letters to Ms. Herrera.

She did not know about the filing and never received notices about the hearing,
Mr. Kuck said, adding that the deportation order ''hit the couple completely out
of the blue.''

Mr. Vilela did not return several messages left at his office.

Though Ms. Herrera was in the country legally on the student visa, once she
missed the date for the asylum hearing and the deportation order was issued,
''it trumped all other legal status,'' Mr. Kuck said.

Mr. Thompson represents parts of DeKalb and Gwinnett Counties, in a district
where about one in four residents is foreign born.

The Atlanta Journal-Constitution quoted him as saying that he asked immigration
officials about Ms. Herrera's status before their marriage in April 2006 -- more
than a year after the deportation order was issued -- and was told that she was
in the country legally. Because her husband is a United States citizen, after
their marriage, Ms. Herrera also applied for an adjustment of her status to
become a permanent resident and obtain a green card. But the approval process is
lengthy, Mr. Kuck said.

If she is deported, Ms. Herrera could be barred from re-entering the United
States for 10 years, Mr. Kuck said, ''so we have to work with extreme speed to
try to fix this.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legislator's Wife Is Allowed to Stay in U.S.

BYLINE: By BRENDA GOODMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Dec. 5


The wife of a Georgia state legislator who was facing deportation reported to
federal court on Tuesday morning expecting to be arrested. Instead, an
immigration judge allowed her to return to her suburban home.

The judge stayed the deportation order against the woman, Sascha Herrera
Thompson, 28, and agreed to reopen her case. Upon hearing the decision, Ms.
Thompson and her husband, State Senator Curt B. Thompson, 37, ''both just
started to cry,'' said Charles H. Kuck, their lawyer.

Ms. Thompson, who married Mr. Thompson in April and is studying for a master's
degree in professional writing, could have been charged with a felony and barred
from re-entering the United States for 10 years.

Ms. Thompson, a native of Colombia, had been in hiding since Nov. 28, when
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents appeared at the couple's home in
Norcross, Ga.

Mr. Thompson said he and his wife were unaware of the deportation order and a
request for asylum that was filed on her behalf.

In a statement last week, Mr. Thompson said his wife had been the victim of an
unscrupulous ''notario,'' a person who typically helps immigrants file paperwork
for citizenship but does not have any special legal expertise. The notario filed
a request for asylum for Ms. Thompson without her knowledge, he said.

Because all correspondence about her case was sent to the notario, Mr. Thompson
said, Ms. Thompson missed a crucial court hearing in February 2005.

Soon after, an immigration judge issued a deportation order and closed her case.

Mr. Thompson said he and his wife thought she was in the United States legally
on a student visa.

At the hearing, Terry C. Bird, the district counsel for the immigration agency,
told the judge that he would not oppose Ms. Thompson's motion to reopen her
case.

''Legally, it's as if she never missed that amnesty hearing,'' Mr. Thompson
said.

The judge allowed Ms. Thompson to return home pending another hearing.

An immigrant in this country who marries a United States citizen may apply for
an adjustment of status, commonly called a green card, but approval is not
automatic and processing a spousal petition can take months. In the meantime,
Mr. Kuck said, the deportation order against Ms. Thompson trumped everything.

Mr. Thompson, who represents the most ethnically diverse district in Georgia,
said he was used to hearing about his constituents' immigration problems but was
caught flat-footed when he became involved in a similar legal battle.

''It does make it more vivid,'' he said, ''living it, as opposed to just having
it around you.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator Curt B. Thompson of Georgia and his wife, Sascha
Herrera Thompson, yesterday in Atlanta. (Photo by Ric Feld/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 19, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visa Questions Prevent Release Of Ono's Driver

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 338 words


Yoko Ono's chauffeur was forced to remain in custody yesterday despite having
put together $250,000 cash bail after federal officials issued an order to
detain him because of questions about his immigration status.

The chauffeur, Koral Karsan, 50, a Turkish immigrant, was arrested and jailed
last week on charges of trying to extort $2 million from Ms. Ono, the widow of
John Lennon.

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the federal office of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the agency had issued a ''detainer'' for Mr. Karsan. The order
means, he said, that if Mr. Karsan were to be released, he would go directly
into the custody of immigration officials.

Mr. Thorn declined to discuss Mr. Karsan's immigration status, citing privacy
considerations, but said that a detainer is generally issued because of an
immigration status violation.

Mr. Karsan's lawyer, Robert Gottlieb, said yesterday that Mr. Karsan came to the
United States on a tourist visa in 1992 and obtained an L-1 work visa, as an
executive in a Turkish import-export business, in November 1993. ''We know that
he at least began the process of obtaining permanent resident status,'' Mr.
Gottlieb said. ''I just cannot yet confirm his legal status as of today.''

Mr. Gottlieb said he was trying to sort out his client's immigration status in
time for a hearing today, in which the Manhattan district attorney is expected
to announce whether a grand jury voted to indict the chauffeur.

Mr. Gottlieb had hoped to have his client, who was arrested on Wednesday,
released yesterday, after two supporters had put up $250,000 in cashier's checks
for his bail. The district attorney's office was reviewing documentation Mr.
Gottlieb provided to show that the money was obtained legitimately, but the
federal detention order takes precedence over the bail.

The supporters, whose names have not been disclosed, are ''legitimate,
hard-working small business owners with spotless records,'' Mr. Gottlieb said.
''One of them I believe is Turkish, the other is not.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Relatives Of Plotter Are Held By Officials

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words


The parents and sister of a man convicted of conspiring to bomb the Herald
Square subway station were detained yesterday by federal immigration
authorities, who have been seeking to deport them to Pakistan.

The arrests came a day after the convicted man, Shahawar Matin Siraj, 24, was
sentenced in United States District Court in Brooklyn to 30 years in prison.

The family, who came to the United States in 1999, had been seeking asylum since
2003, citing religious persecution in their home country.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement said that Mr. Siraj's
father, Siraj Abdul Rehman, 54, was arrested because a final deportation order
had been filed against him. But a lawyer for the family said his case was still
under appeal.

The agency spokesman, Mark Thorn, said that the man's mother, Shahina Parveen,
50, and his sister, Sanya Siraj, 19, were arrested and detained on immigration
violations.

Mr. Thorn said that the mother and daughter would be given due process and that
their cases would be heard by an immigration judge. He said he could provide no
more information, because it was the agency's policy not to discuss case
details. Mr. Thorn could not explain why the action was taken yesterday, other
than to say that the detention was part of an administrative process and that
criminal cases take priority over administrative ones. It was unclear why the
criminal case against Mr. Siraj would have delayed the detentions.

The lawyer for the family, Mona Shah, disputed that a final order of removal had
been entered against Mr. Rehman. She said he still has an appeal pending before
the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

''It's absolutely disgusting that they've picked him up under the guise of a
deportation order,'' Ms. Shah said yesterday. ''Fine, punish the son. But why
punish them like this?''

She could not offer an explanation for the timing of the move, but suggested
that it might stem from pressure on the authorities because the family's
immigration status was cited in news reports about Mr. Siraj's case.

The immigration status of Mr. Rehman's wife and daughter hinge on his asylum
case, Ms. Shah said. All three were picked up at their home in Jackson Heights,
Queens, early yesterday morning. Mr. Thorn said they will be held at an
Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Elizabeth, N.J.

Mr. Siraj, who was convicted on May 24 of conspiring to place an explosive
device in the Herald Square subway station in 2004, had also filed for asylum on
the same grounds as his father, religious persecution.

Ms. Shah said that all members of the family are Ismaili Muslims, a sect that
she said has been mistreated in Pakistan. She said family members had been
robbed and attacked several times. ''They would be subject to torture and
harassment if they returned,'' she said.

But prosecutors during Mr. Siraj's trial in the bomb plot suggested that he had
lied to immigration authorities in his asylum request. They cited his own
testimony in an earlier hearing, when he had first told immigration authorities
that he did not fear harm if he returned to his native Pakistan. But later, in
Mr. Siraj's asylum application, prosecutors pointed out that he said he was
afraid.

Also, on tapes secretly recorded by a police informer and played at his trial,
he said he had no fear of returning to Pakistan and spoke about influential
family members who served as judges and magistrates. He also said he had rich
and influential friends and friends on the police force.

He was recorded telling the informer that he planned to conduct surveillance of
the subway station tied to his bomb plot immediately after attending an
immigration hearing in Lower Manhattan. Testimony also showed that he had
discussed entering into a marriage only to get citizenship.

Ms. Shah acknowledged that immigration authorities have some discretion about
how to proceed and whether to detain people whose cases are pending, but she was
bothered by yesterday's arrests.

''They're not supposed to detain halfway through a case,'' she said, calling the
action ''an absolute uneven use'' of the discretion.

''You do not give someone the freedom of being not detained and then suddenly
pick them up,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 13, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Rockies: Colorado: Judge Demands Accounting Of Raid

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 118 words


A federal judge demanded that immigration officials disclose the whereabouts of
265 people arrested in a meatpacking-plant raid last month. The judge, John L.
Kane of Federal District Court in Denver, gave Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials until Jan. 22 to submit a list accounting for all the
detainees, including those who have been deported. Union lawyers are contesting
the arrests at the Swift & Company meat processing plant in Greeley, one of six
Swift plants in six states that were raided on Dec. 13. In all, 1,297 people
were arrested on immigration violations during the raid, and 219 of those also
face criminal charges like identity theft, a spokesman for immigrations and
customs said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 23, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Newark: Businessman Sentenced For Immigration Fraud

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 101 words


A business owner from India was sentenced yesterday in Federal District Court to
20 months in prison for helping hundreds of immigrants live and work illegally
in the United States, prosecutors said. The businessman, Narendra Mandalapa, 36,
must also forfeit $5.7 million and two luxury cars, which were proceeds of his
crime, and pay a $25,000 fine, prosecutors said. Mr. Mandalapa was the owner and
president of Cybersoftec Inc., a business consulting firm based in Edison. He
pleaded guilty to immigration fraud on May 5, admitting that he received up to
$22,000 from immigrants to file false documents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Promise on Immigration Now a Quandary for Spitzer

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 971 words


In his campaign for governor, Eliot Spitzer repeatedly expressed support for the
licensing of all New York drivers regardless of their immigration status. Now
expectations are running high among those urging the governor to change policies
that deny licenses to 250,000 drivers in the state, most because they cannot
prove they are legal immigrants.

Yesterday, immigrant advocacy groups met in Albany with David J. Swarts, the new
motor vehicles commissioner, to press for new rules. They want the state to
accept documents like foreign passports as proof of identity without also
requiring a valid yearlong visa or other evidence of legal immigration status, a
policy that state motor vehicles offices adopted in 2004.

The groups' efforts are spurring vigorous opposition from an organization, the
Coalition for a Secure Driver's License, that welcomed the Pataki administration
policies as a needed crackdown on license fraud and as the kind of national
security measure demanded by the 9/11 attacks. The conflict, and Mr. Spitzer's
history as the attorney general who successfully defended the Pataki licensing
policy in court, has put the new governor in an uncomfortable position.

Christine Anderson, the governor's spokeswoman, tried to dispel the impression
created by the clash of advocates that action was imminent.

''It's not an easy answer at this point,'' she said, stressing that no plan was
on the table and that no change would be made before ''an exhaustive review'' of
all the security considerations. ''There are a lot of factors to review.''

Still, Ms. Anderson confirmed that the governor was committed to seeking a more
inclusive licensing system. ''It's something Eliot feels strongly,'' she said.
''He feels that some of these restrictions may have gone too far, that we need
to examine them, taking into consideration all the security concerns, but that
we wouldn't unnecessarily keep people who should have licenses from getting
them.''

Last June, an appellate court upheld the policy as a reasonable exercise of
discretion by the motor vehicles commissioner. As a legal holding, that means
that a reversal of the policy is equally discretionary. But in political terms
the ruling -- now on appeal itself -- offers little cover from criticism by
those opposed to letting illegal immigrants renew or obtain driver's licenses.

Immigrant advocacy groups say the need for a resolution is urgent. Every month,
the licenses of about 3,000 more drivers expire and cannot be renewed.
Typically, those denied a license are among an estimated 650,000 illegal
immigrants in New York and 11 million nationwide, though some legal immigrants
also have been affected.

On the other side, Neil Berro, a spokesman for the Coalition for a Secure
Driver's License, said the organization ''takes very, very seriously the
governor's comments when he was a candidate'' and is mobilizing to prevent any
weakening of New York State licensing requirements. The New York-based group,
which held a news conference outside City Hall last week, includes some 9/11
families as well as advocates for restricting immigration.

''This is not really an immigration issue, this is an identification question,''
Mr. Berro said. ''We had massive terrorism in this country, and driver's
licenses were used by terrorists to confuse and cover their tracks.''

Supporters of the license crackdown have cited the need to keep criminals, as
well as terrorists, from exploiting weaknesses in the system. Taxi drivers who
used multiple driving licenses to hide bad records, con artists, and parents
avoiding child support payments were among those who have used fake Social
Security numbers that were not verified until the crackdown.

Advocates for immigrants argue that security will be enhanced by a licensing
system that not only verifies the Social Security numbers of those who have
them, but encourages those who do not have a Social Security card to use a
genuine alternative. They said they were encouraged by an hourlong meeting with
Commissioner Swarts yesterday.

''It really felt like it was exploratory,'' said Amy Sugimori, who is on the
steering committee of the Immigrants Rights to a Driver's License Coalition.
''They're really trying to get up to speed.''

Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an
umbrella group for more than 150 organizations, said ethnic newspapers have been
deluged with calls from readers asking how the governor is proposing to fulfill
his campaign promise.

''The timetable is important, otherwise people are going to start doubting he
was sincere,'' she said. ''It's not something that becomes easier with the
passage of time.''

Among the complicating factors is the most recent ruling in the 2005 lawsuit
brought against the Pataki administration by the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund.

''The limitations that plaintiffs would impose on the ability to identify an
undocumented alien who is working to promote his family's financial security
would also hinder the detection of an undocumented alien who is working to
advance the destructive ends of a terrorist organization,'' wrote the Appellate
Division of State Supreme Court for the First Department.

''This court is not unsympathetic to the predicament of the otherwise
law-abiding undocumented foreign national,'' it added. But it concluded,
''Plaintiffs' remedy, if any, lies with Congress, which alone has the power to
set immigration policy, to institute a guest worker program or to grant
amnesty.''

Another complication is the Real ID Act of 2005, which requires all states to
meet a uniform standard of issuing licenses by May 2008, including proof of
legal status. No federal regulations have yet implemented the measure, and there
is growing concern that it is unworkable.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 26, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Building Boom May Mean Jobs Can't All Be Filled, Report Says

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 404 words


Amid one of the biggest building booms in New York City's history, the
construction industry may soon have trouble finding enough young workers to fill
all the jobs, a leading industry group said yesterday.

The group, the New York Building Congress, said that of the overall building
industry's 275,000 employees in the city, a growing number of them are young
immigrants. Just a few years after a post-9/11 slump in construction, the
building industry is starting to worry that immigration laws may restrict future
growth.

''One of the great implications here is the importance of immigration,'' said
Richard T. Anderson, president of the building congress, whose members include
large construction companies and design and real estate firms. ''We have a big
stake in reasonable immigration legislation.''

Of the 275,000 workers, 123,000 are in construction, according to a report the
group released yesterday. That number has risen almost 15 percent since 2004,
which marked the end of a three-year downturn, and is higher than the previous
peak reached in 2001, according to State Labor Department figures.

Contrary to conventional wisdom, Mr. Anderson said, the typical construction
worker in the city is not an older, white suburbanite who commutes, but a
younger city resident who is almost as likely to have been born abroad as in
America.

In the last 10 years, Mr. Anderson said, the average age of construction workers
in the city has dropped to 40 from 51. Almost half of them, 47 percent, were
born abroad, he said.

William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, said the staying power of the
city's housing boom had surprised everyone and was an important contributor to
the ''great shape'' the city's finances are in. But he cautioned that the rapid
development of expensive housing has been driving municipal workers and
middle-class families out of the city.

''Right now we have an affordable-housing crisis,'' Mr. Thompson said.

According to the report, 72 percent of all of the city's construction workers
live in the city, most in Brooklyn and Queens, while most real estate workers
live in Manhattan and most building services workers live in Staten Island and
Queens.

In the building industry, the highest average wages go to workers in heavy and
civil construction ($68,900), architectural and engineering services ($68,000),
real estate ($47,600) and building services ($32,800), the report said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Judge Ends 20-Year Case To Deport 2 Tied to Terrorists

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 30


Chastising the government with poetry and blunt language, an immigration judge
on Tuesday ended 20-year-old deportation proceedings against two of eight men
who had been accused of ties to a Palestinian organization classified as a
terrorist group.

The judge, Bruce J. Einhorn, of Immigration Court here, faulted the government
for repeated delays in producing evidence that the two, who with the others
became known as the L.A. Eight, should be deported as a threat to the United
States.

The case has been monitored by civil libertarians, who see it as an example of
overreaching in terror cases.

Officials had accused the men, seven Palestinians and a Kenyan, of supporting
the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a branch of the Palestinian
Liberation Organization that the government classifies as a terrorist group.

The eight denied being members and accused the government, which never filed
criminal charges against them, of political persecution.

The two men, Khader Musa Hamide and Michel Ibrahim Shehadeh, are the sole
remaining defendants and the only ones who were legal permanent residents when
the case began.

One of the others returned to the Palestinian areas. The other five, who had
been charged with violating temporary visas, were given legal permanent
residency. One became a United States citizen during the proceedings, which
included appeals to the Supreme Court.

''I certainly hope it is the end of the road,'' said David Cole, a lawyer with
the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York, which represented the two men
along with the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California and the
National Lawyers Guild.

Mr. Hamide, 52, a coffee and tea wholesaler who has lived in the country for 35
years, said the ruling relieved him.

''This is a dark cloud that has hung over our lives for 20 years,'' he said.
''This was over expression of political views that may not be popular but we
have a right to make.''

Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for Immigrations and Customs Enforcement, said,
''I.C.E. finds the judge's decision troubling as a matter of fact and law, and
the agency is considering its legal options.''

Judge Einhorn began his ruling with a quotation from the poet William Knox's
''Songs of Israel,'' a paean to mortality that begins, ''On why the spirit of
mortal be proud?''

''Since time began to tick,'' he continued, ''human beings have contemplated
their mortality with the certainty that they face a worldly end. Such certainty
must come to cases as well.''

At another point the judge criticized the government's nine-month delay in
responding to an order due on June 27, 2005. ''One could conceive, carry and
deliver a child during the course of the government's delay,'' he wrote.

In the end, he said, the government failed to prove that the men were
deportable.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Are Facing Big Increases In U.S. Fees

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 730 words


Federal immigration authorities proposed yesterday to raise fees for visas and
citizenship documents by an average of 66 percent, promising to use the added
money to modernize and speed up an antiquated, overburdened bureaucracy.

Emilio Gonzalez, director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, said the
increases were necessary because the agency's fees were not covering the costs
of processing more than seven million applications a year and about 135,000
security background checks a day. Since 1988, Congress has required the agency
to pay for its services entirely with the fees it collects.

In exchange for higher fees, Mr. Gonzalez pledged, the agency will reduce the
average time to process documents, currently about six months, 20 percent by
2009.

''I need these fees to give the service that the immigration community
expects,'' Mr. Gonzalez said at a news conference in Washington. Since the Sept.
11 attacks, he said, the agency's costs for security measures have soared, with
no new revenue to keep pace.

In an unusual convergence of views amid the polarized debate over immigration,
the proposal brought outcries from groups favoring more immigration and groups
that want less of it. They called the fee increases exorbitant and said Congress
should appropriate money for technology and infrastructure improvements at the
agency.

''I don't think the cost of overhauling the bureaucracy should be on the backs
of prospective immigrants,'' said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, which advocates more channels for
legal immigration. ''You're asking future immigrants to pay for the agency's
failings of the last decade.''

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
favors curbing immigration, said, ''The citizenship application fees should not
be designed to keep people from becoming citizens.''

Fees would continue to be waived for refugees seeking asylum and for immigrants
who are victims of human trafficking or sexual violence. Otherwise, the
increases would vary by document, but some would be large. The fee for an
application to become a citizen would rise to $595 from $330, an 80 percent
increase. The cost for an employer to bring in a foreign worker would jump to
$475 from $195, an increase of 144 percent. For an American who wanted to bring
a foreign fiance to live in the United States, the cost would be $455, up 170
percent from $170.

Perhaps the most daunting proposed increase is for immigrants seeking to become
permanent residents, whose fee would rise to $905 from $325. Immigration
officials argued that the jump would not be as great as it appeared, because the
fee would be charged only once. Under the current system, they said, immigrants
seeking resident status often have to pay interim fees while they are waiting
for their application to inch through the bureaucracy, making the average cost
$800.

According to census figures, three of four Mexican and Central American
immigrant households in the United States have annual incomes of less than
$25,000 a year. The new fees ''basically become an economic wall,'' said William
Ramos, a spokesman for the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials Educational Fund, which represents 6,000 officials nationwide.

Immigration authorities said they expected to process just under 10 million
fee-paying applications in the two years after the rules were adopted, reaping
an additional $1 billion a year. They said they would use the money to build new
facilities and buy digital technology, to convert the agency from an aging
system still based on paper. The last time the fee structure was completely
revised was in 1998.

''It's like any corporation,'' Mr. Gonzalez said of his agency. ''This is a
$2-billion-a-year corporation that has to remain solvent every single day, while
we have to provide benefits to an increasing number of customers.''

Mr. Gonzalez acknowledged that many aspiring immigrants encountered ''dingy
buildings, rude employees'' and bureaucratic gridlock when they approached the
agency now. But he said the possibility of seeking money from Congress had not
been raised during the agency's internal review.

The agency opened a 60-day period of public comment on the proposed fees
yesterday. The final rules are not expected before June.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Shameful Prosecution

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 390 words


An immigration court judge's dismissal of 20-year-old deportation proceedings
against two Palestinian men -- and his criticism of the government's abusive
conduct in the case -- ought to prick the conscience of the homeland security
secretary, Michael Chertoff. Rather than reflexively pursuing an appeal, Mr.
Chertoff, a former federal judge, should see the wisdom of finally declaring an
end to this sorry legal tale, which has become a big source of distrust in the
Arab and Muslim community.

The two legal American residents at the center of the controversy, Khader Musa
Hamide and Michel Ibrahim Shehadeh, are the sole remaining defendants in a
Reagan-era cause celebre known as the L.A. 8 case. They were arrested in Los
Angeles and marked for deportation along with six others because of allegations
that they supported the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, which is
classified as a terrorist group.

The charges against the two have shifted repeatedly. Originally, they were
charged under the 1952 McCarran-Walter Act, a cold war relic that allowed the
deportation of noncitizens linked to any group advocating ''world communism.'' A
federal court declared those provisions unconstitutional and Congress repealed
them, but the government's obsession only seemed to grow. At least twice,
government lawyers pressed Congress for statutory changes, then tried to apply
them retroactively.

What makes this pursuit so bizarre is that the government long ago conceded it
had no evidence that the two men had ever been involved in any terrorist act, or
any criminal act. Had they been United States citizens, they could not have been
arrested. The key allegation -- that two decades ago the men distributed a
magazine published by the Popular Front and raised money for lawful charitable
institutions somehow connected to the group -- suggests that the government's
real motive all along has been to punish the exercise of free speech.

In dismissing the case, an immigration judge, Bruce Einhorn, cited the
government's ''gross failure'' to comply with his instructions to produce
potentially exculpatory and other relevant information. He fittingly denounced
the 20-year pursuit as ''an embarrassment to the rule of law.''

Mr. Chertoff has until Feb. 28 to file an appeal. The only decent thing to do is
to drop the case.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 16, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Sets Trial For Castro Foe With U.S. Ties

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 226 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Feb. 15


An anti-Castro Cuban militant accused of lying to United States immigration
officials in an effort to become a citizen should stand trial in May, a federal
judge ruled Thursday.

The judge, Kathleen Cardone of Federal District Court here, set May 11 for jury
selection in the case against Luis Posada Carriles, who is also wanted in
Venezuela on charges that he planned a deadly jet bombing.

Mr. Posada, a former Central Intelligence Agency operative and Army soldier, is
accused of lying about how he illegally entered the United States from Mexico in
2005.

According to an indictment last month, Mr. Posada told investigators he had paid
a smuggler to drive him across the border into Texas but really entered the
country aboard a boat.

He is also accused of lying about using an alias.

Mr. Posada has been in federal custody since May 2005, when he was arrested on a
charge that he illegally entered the country.

Since then, an immigration judge has ruled that he should be deported but not to
Cuba, where he was born, or to Venezuela, where he is a naturalized citizen.

Governments of both countries want Mr. Posada deported to Venezuela so he can
stand trial on charges that he was in Caracas when he plotted the deadly 1976
bombing of a Cuban jetliner.

Mr. Posada has denied any wrongdoing and has pleaded not guilty in the federal
criminal case.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 20, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alliance Backs Voting Rights For Noncitizens

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 452 words


New York City should allow legal immigrants who are not citizens to vote in
local elections, according to an alliance of more than 60 organizations that
announced a renewed effort yesterday to secure that right.

The alliance, the New York Coalition to Expand Voting Rights, called on the City
Council and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to support a bill, introduced by
Councilman Charles Barron of Brooklyn, that would allow legal immigrants who
have been in the country for more than six months to vote in elections for
mayor, comptroller and public advocate, as well as for the five borough
presidents and 51 council members.

The effort started in 2004, after lawyers for the Council reviewed state
election law and determined that the city could alter its voting statutes
without action by the State Legislature, where noncitizen voting measures were
introduced without success three times in the 1990s. Nothing in the State
Constitution of 1938 forbids voting by noncitizens.

The local bill has the support of at least 14 council members, but has had
trouble attracting broader support. Mr. Bloomberg, a vocal supporter of liberal
immigration policies, said in April 2004, ''The essence of citizenship is the
right to vote, and you should go about becoming a citizen before you get the
right to vote.''

Advocates for immigrants said that current law violates the principle of ''no
taxation without representation''; that it typically takes 8 to 10 years for
legal immigrants to achieve citizenship; and that the city allowed noncitizens
to vote in local school board elections from 1969 until 2003, when the boards
were abolished.

Ron Hayduk, a political scientist at the Borough of Manhattan Community College
and the author of ''Democracy for All: Restoring Immigrant Voting Rights in the
United States'' (Routledge, 2006), said that until the 1920s, 40 states and
territories allowed noncitizens to vote in local, state and even federal
elections.

According to Professor Hayduk, Takoma Park and five other communities in
Maryland have given noncitizens the right to vote in local elections, and
noncitizens may vote in school board races in Chicago. In Massachusetts, Amherst
and Cambridge have approved noncitizen voting, but the measures depend on
approval by the State Legislature, and have not yet received it.

At a City Hall news conference, the New York City coalition -- including the
Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund, the Center for Constitutional
Rights, the Community Service Society, the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund and dozens of other groups -- vowed to draw more attention to the
issue, in part by getting its message out through the ethnic and immigrant
press.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Urges Review of New York Judge's Immigration Cases That Are on Appeal

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA; Nina Bernstein contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 893 words


In a move that immigration lawyers say is highly unusual, a federal appeals
court has recommended that a Justice Department appeals board review all
immigration cases still on appeal involving a judge who has been criticized as
being hostile to people seeking asylum.

The request came in a ruling on Wednesday by the United States Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit in Manhattan that struck down a decision by Judge Jeffrey
S. Chase in the case of a Mauritania native who said he would be persecuted if
he was returned to his home country.

The court said Judge Chase's decision to deny asylum contained a ''plethora of
errors and omissions.'' The three-judge panel capped off its ruling by saying
that ''given the court's history with Chase, it may improve judicial
efficiency'' if the Board of Immigration Appeals ''closely re-examined all of
his cases'' that are still on appeal.

The board is the first level of appeal in immigration cases before they can
advance to the federal appellate courts. A phone call to the board's offices in
Falls Church, Va., last night was not returned.

Immigration experts say the court's rebuke of Judge Chase highlights the
escalating demands on the nation's 218 or so immigration judges, who handle some
350,000 cases a year without the help of law clerks, bailiffs or stenographers.
A scarcity of competent immigration lawyers and language barriers only
complicate matters.

As further evidence of the pressure, the appeals court issued a temporary notice
on Friday that asylum cases would no longer be scheduled for oral arguments
unless requested by the parties involved and approved by the court. The court's
immigration caseload has expanded in recent years as the Justice Department has
curtailed its own appeals process. The court will take public comments before
deciding whether to make the change permanent.

''Can you imagine if they said there were no longer going to be oral arguments
in criminal cases, civil libertarians would go crazy,'' said Bryan Lonegan, a
lawyer with the Legal Aid Society's immigration unit. ''But they're doing this
in these asylum cases because the workload is huge.''

Lawyers who have worked with Judge Chase say his experience serves almost as a
cautionary tale. Before his 1995 appointment, he was chairman of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association's National Asylum Reform Task Force. He received
awards as a human rights advocate and rallied on behalf of people from China
seeking asylum. He even videotaped lessons on asylum for other lawyers.

But in recent years, the Second Circuit has criticized his demeanor in court.
Regarding a 1998 hearing involving a man seeking asylum from Bangladesh, the
court said, Judge Chase ''repeatedly addressed him in an argumentative,
sarcastic, impolite and overly hostile manner.''

After a stinging Second Circuit decision was published last year in The New York
Law Journal, an immigration lawyer described the judge as devastated. ''He said,
'I learned my lesson, but some of these cases are still in the pipeline,' '' the
lawyer, Robert Murtha, told The New York Times last fall.

One of those cases involved Aboubacar Ba, the Mauritania native. After a 2004
hearing, Judge Chase denied Mr. Ba asylum in part because the judge said Mr. Ba
failed to apply for asylum within one year of arriving in the United States; his
immigration papers showed otherwise.

The appeals court sent the case back to the appeals board, adding: ''We note
with concern that, based on the transcript, the tone of this proceeding is
consistent with previous proceedings that have drawn rebuke from this court.''

The panel also pointed to a ''disturbing'' incident in which the judge appeared
to tread on lawyer-client privilege when he asked Mr. Ba if he lied to his
attorney: ''Yes or no?''

''It is inconceivable,'' the panel wrote, that Judge Chase, ''as a judge and
lawyer, would not know the impropriety of that question.''

Calls to Judge Chase's home were not returned yesterday; Justice Department
rules forbid immigration judges from talking to reporters.

Mr. Chase is one of several immigration judges who have been criticized by the
appeals courts in recent years. The nation's immigration judges are employees of
the Justice Department, not the court system.

In fact, Judge Chase has a record of approving asylum requests more often than
the average judge. He denied 58 percent of asylum claims, compared with about 62
percent by immigration judges nationally, from 2000 to early 2005, according to
the latest data available from Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at
Syracuse University.

Lauris Wren, who runs an asylum clinic at Hofstra University's School of Law,
said the court was ''scapegoating Judge Chase instead of addressing'' systemwide
problems.

Mr. Ba's lawyer, Thomas V. Massucci, told The Associated Press that he had never
heard of a court making such a recommendation. ''There are probably hundreds of
these cases in the pipeline,'' he said.

Mr. Lonegan called the court's recommendation ''extraordinary.''

''I just did an asylum case in front of him maybe six months ago, and he was
extremely pleasant,'' Mr. Lonegan said, adding that the judge allowed his client
to tell his story of persecution for 40 minutes. ''I just thought that was
terribly decent of him,'' Mr. Lonegan said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2007



CORRECTION: An article in some copies on Sunday about a recommendation by a
federal appeals court in Manhattan for a review of all immigration cases still
on appeal involving a judge who has been criticized as being hostile to people
seeking asylum referred imprecisely to a new rule announced by the court on
Friday. The court's plan expands the types of claims that will fall under an
earlier rule, dating to October 2005, that dispensed with oral arguments in most
immigration cases involving asylum claims. It does not dispense with such
arguments for the first time.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 93 words


An article in some copies on Sunday about a recommendation by a federal appeals
court in Manhattan for a review of all immigration cases still on appeal
involving a judge who has been criticized as being hostile to people seeking
asylum referred imprecisely to a new rule announced by the court on Friday. The
court's plan expands the types of claims that will fall under an earlier rule,
dating to October 2005, that dispensed with oral arguments in most immigration
cases involving asylum claims. It does not dispense with such arguments for the
first time.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 2, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Proposed Increases in Fees for Immigrants Incite Protest

BYLINE: By LAURA RIVERA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, March 1


Chanting ''Stop the fee increase now'' in Spanish and carrying signs that read,
''Don't exclude us by raising prices,'' about 100 people rallied next to the
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services office on Thursday to protest
proposed fee increases for visa and citizenship applications.

Federal immigration officials announced a month ago that on June 1, the price of
applying for permanent residency would probably jump to $905 from $325, and for
citizenship, to $595 from $330, to meet spiraling operational expenses. The
immigration agency is accepting public comment on the plan, and Thursday's
demonstration, which attracted mainly civil rights advocates and Hispanic day
laborers, was a loud attempt at public comment.

Desiree Ramos, a spokeswoman for Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New
Jersey, announced at the rally that Mr. Menendez planned to introduce
legislation to freeze current application fees and appropriate other funds for
the agency. ''For so many immigrants, it is impossible for them to get together
the funds they need as it is,'' Ms. Ramos said. ''We should be encouraging
citizenship, not putting up roadblocks to it.''

More than 90 percent of the agency's money comes from application fees,
according to Sean Saucier, a spokesman for the immigration agency. But Mr.
Saucier said that as recently as 2006, Congress appropriated tens of millions of
dollars to supplement the fees and help ease backlogs on applications. He added
that the agency's budget was cut to $154 million for the 2008 fiscal year from
$184 million in 2007.

Carmen Gutierrez, a protester who came to the United States from Peru on a
tourist visa six years ago, said that she and her three immigrant children
became eligible for residency status last month. But Ms. Gutierrez, 41, who said
she earned money by catering, carpooling, and cleaning her church, said she
could not afford even the current application rates.

''I have no savings,'' she said in Spanish. ''If I couldn't pay before, imagine
now, with this increase.'' The cost for her family to apply would rise to $3,620
from $1,300.

Ms. Gutierrez, whose eldest son, Abraham, 13, has a learning disability, said
she wanted the family to become permanent residents in part so he could get
better medical care, and so she could enroll in a culinary arts program.

Amy Gottlieb, director of the immigrant rights program of the American Friends
Service Committee, the nonprofit group that organized the rally, said she
planned to lobby Washington lawmakers next week on legislation related to
immigration, including Mr. Menendez's proposal. ''We are looking for improvement
across the board to overhaul what has become a completely dysfunctional
system,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alix Nguefack, left, and Diana Mejia of the American Friends
Service Committee at the rally yesterday. (Photo by Aaron Houston for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Judge Is Reassigned to a Desk Job

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 997 words


An immigration judge in New York who has been repeatedly rebuked by federal
appeals judges for his hostile questioning of asylum-seekers was relieved of
courtroom duties yesterday and reassigned to a desk job, lawyers and a union
official said.

The judge, Jeffrey S. Chase, has been portrayed by supporters and even by some
of his critics as a scapegoat in an escalating battle between the Justice
Department, which employs immigration judges, and federal circuit courts around
the country.

The circuit courts have been overwhelmed with asylum appeals since the Bush
administration curtailed an internal immigration appeals process, and have
complained of a pattern of biased and incoherent decisions and bullying conduct
by immigration judges, who are not part of the independent federal judiciary.

A spokesman for the Justice Department would neither confirm nor deny Judge
Chase's reassignment, calling it ''a personnel matter'' covered by privacy laws.
But the spokesman, Charles S. Miller, said that 11 of the nation's roughly 215
immigration judges had been temporarily suspended from courtroom duties since
June, ''based on concerns about how they were conducting immigration
proceedings.'' Some have since returned to the bench, he said.

Last month, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Manhattan, took the
unusual step of recommending that the Board of Immigration Appeals, a Justice
Department internal review panel, scrutinize all Judge Chase's decisions pending
on appeal.

It was the latest sign of impatience from the appeals courts. In response to the
mounting pressure, Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales warned immigration
judges last August that they all faced annual performance evaluations for the
first time and regular oversight to detect high reversal rates, frequent
complaints or unusual backlogs.

But Denise N. Slavin, president of the National Association of Immigration
Judges, the judges' union, said that the plan for performance reviews was still
on the drawing board, and that the number of judges who had been temporarily
suspended was fewer than 5, not the 11 cited by the Justice Department. She
questioned whether the larger number included judges sent for a few days of
retraining or education. And she insisted that Judge Chase, who won awards as a
human-rights advocate before taking the bench 12 years ago, had not been
disciplined or suspended. Rather, she said, he has been reassigned to develop
procedures that would allow judges to refer suspected asylum fraud for possible
prosecution -- one of the 22 improvement measures that Mr. Gonzales announced in
August.

''I think the reason the attorney general proposed it is to give judges an
outlet so they don't act intemperately'' toward asylum applicants whom they
suspect of lying, Judge Slavin said.

She called Judge Chase's new assignment ''a win-win situation for everyone
involved.'' But she added that the underlying problem was too few judges being
pressed to handle more than 350,000 cases a year.

Under Justice Department rules, Judge Chase is not allowed to speak to the news
media. But an immigration lawyer close to him, Peter Lobel, said the judge
seemed almost relieved to be off the bench yesterday.

''He said, 'Maybe when I look back at this in five years it may have been for
the best,' '' Mr. Lobel recalled.

For others, Judge Chase's trajectory has been a cautionary tale of how those
unable to accept the system's deficiencies can lose their judicial bearings.

Before his 1995 appointment, he was chairman of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association's National Asylum Reform Task Force. He rallied on behalf of people
from China seeking asylum.

But before long, incredulous tirades became his trademark in many Chinese asylum
cases, according to court records and interviews with a dozen lawyers. Openly
frustrated with a pattern of boilerplate claims that he suspected had been
concocted by smugglers, he adopted ''an inquisitorial mode,'' said Thomas V.
Masucci, a lawyer who represented many Chinese asylum-seekers in his court.

The tables turned after appeals reached federal court last year. In scathing
decisions, the court rebuked Judge Chase for ''pervasive bias and hostility,''
''combative and insulting language,'' and remarks ''implying that any asylum
claim based on China's coercive family planning policies would be presumed
incredible.''

Mr. Lobel described the judge as devastated after a stinging Second Circuit
decision was published last year in The New York Law Journal. ''He said, 'I
learned my lesson, but some of these cases are still in the pipeline,' '' Mr.
Lobel said then.

The recommendation that all such cases be reviewed came in a Feb. 21 ruling in
which the Second Circuit overturned Judge Chase's decision to deny asylum to
Aboubacar Ba, a Mauritania native, in 2004, and to find his application for
asylum ''frivolous.''

Not only did Judge Chase's decision show ''a plethora of errors and omissions,''
the court said, but his tone during the hearing was unacceptable.

The panel pointed to a ''disturbing'' incident in which the judge appeared to
tread on lawyer-client privilege when he asked Mr. Ba if he had lied to his
lawyer: ''Yes or no?''

'''It is inconceivable,'' the panel wrote, that Judge Chase, ''as a judge and
lawyer, would not know the impropriety of that question.''

But last week, sensing that Judge Chase's days in the courtroom were numbered,
several members of the American Immigration Lawyers Association sent a letter to
the Office of Professional Responsibility, within the Justice Department,
defending Judge Chase.

''As advocates, we have seen Judge Chase's development over many years, and urge
that he be permitted to continue to serve on the bench in New York,'' the letter
said.

''Judge Chase has worked hard to fortify his strengths and address his
weaknesses, and after a great deal of self-examination, clearly has addressed
his shortcomings,'' the letter said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Ousted Prosecutor Had Strategy Disputes

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and ERIC LIPTON; Jennifer Steinhauer reported
from Los Angeles, and Eric Lipton from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE FIRED PROSECUTORS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1265 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 20


Among the cases of the eight federal prosecutors dismissed by the Department of
Justice last year, none brought more accusations of egregious political
retaliation than that of Carol C. Lam.

Democrats in Congress and others have suggested that Ms. Lam, the former United
States attorney in San Diego, was ousted largely to stymie her investigations of
Republicans and Defense Department officials, after a prosecution of a
Republican congressman from California.

But interviews with law enforcement officials in California and an examination
of e-mail released by the Justice Department demonstrate that Ms. Lam was a
source of longstanding vexation to the department, with which she differed on
strategy.

Ms. Lam ran afoul of local officials and the department as far back as 2004 over
her decision to pursue far fewer illegal immigration cases than similar
districts did, choosing instead to personally prosecute a case against a health
care company. She also prosecuted too few gun-crime cases for the
administration's taste.

''Have a heart-to-heart with Lam about the urgent need to improve immigration
enforcement,'' said a June 2006 e-mail message that D. Kyle Sampson, the chief
of staff to Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, wrote to another senior
department official. ''If she balks on any of the foregoing or otherwise does
not perform in a measurable way by July 15 [my date] remove her.''

The dismissal of Ms. Lam, who declined to comment for this article, still came
as a shock to many of her colleagues in California. They said that they never
saw her problems with the Justice Department as serious enough to warrant
removal and that her record on white-collar prosecutions, including that of
former Representative Randy Cunningham, was considered exemplary.

Several of her colleagues said they were disturbed that Ms. Lam had learned
about her ouster from material reportedly leaked to news organizations, in which
her competence was seriously maligned.

''Carol Lam was a person of impeccable integrity,'' said Bonnie M. Dumanis, the
district attorney in San Diego, who worked closely with Ms. Lam on many issues.
''I think those of us in law enforcement were sad to see her leave.''

But Ms. Lam's decision to focus on high-level offenders in immigration cases,
rather than to roll up large numbers of individual prosecutions, appears to have
been a political miscalculation of the highest order.

While much of the nation frames the immigration debate around employment, in San
Diego and other border areas illegal immigration is often linked with serious
criminal activity. Crimes like the killing of a rookie police officer from
Oceanside by a twice-deported illegal immigrant and convicted felon created a
public appetite for get-tough tactics.

''The immigration issue is one that is exploited politically,'' said Michael J.
Aguirre, San Diego's city attorney.

Ms. Lam's ouster has also produced other theories.

Senate Democrats have asserted that she appears to have been removed because of
her pursuit of Mr. Cunningham and other officials. The evidence cited by Senator
Dianne Feinstein of California and others includes a May 2006 e-mail message
from a top Justice Department official calling Ms. Lam ''the real problem.''

That message was written just after she notified the department that she
intended to execute search warrants on a high-ranking official of the Central
Intelligence Agency, and amid reports that other elected officials could be
investigation targets.

''Six of the eight attorneys who were fired were involved in public corruption
cases,'' said Scott Gerber, a spokesman for Ms. Feinstein, in an interview
Tuesday.

But the documents suggest that the ''real problem'' mentioned in the message was
related instead to complaints about her handling of immigration, which reached
Justice Department officials even before the plan to oust several United States
attorneys was conceived, in late 2004. Republican House members from California
sent the first in a series of letters saying her office was failing to prosecute
many people smuggling large numbers of immigrants.

''It is unfortunate and unacceptable that anyone in the Department of Justice
would deem alien smuggling, on any level or by any person, too low of a priority
to warrant prosecution in a timely fashion,'' said a letter sent in July 2004 by
House Republicans to John Ashcroft, then the attorney general. In 2006, Mrs.
Feinstein, one of her supporters, also wrote a letter of concern.

The sporadic complaints developed into a small crisis for the Justice Department
by May 2006, when an internal Border Patrol document was leaked to the news
media chastising Ms. Lam's office for its ''catch and release'' approach.

At the same time, the White House was looking for ways to show it was cracking
down on illegal immigration, in part by stepping up its prosecutions against
repeat criminal offenders at the border.

''Has the ODAG ever called Carol Lam and woodshedded her re immigration
enforcement?'' asked one e-mail message sent by Mr. Sampson in May 2006,
referring to the deputy attorney general's office.

Ms. Lam appears not to have known that Washington was unhappy with her. In
testimony prepared for a Capitol Hill appearance, she said, ''In most of our
cases, we were given little or no information about the reason for the request
for our resignations.''

Ms. Lam defended her office to those who complained about her handling of
immigration. ''We set out a couple of years ago to deliberately seek higher
sentences for the worst offenders,'' Ms. Lam wrote in an August 2006 e-mail
message, explaining a briefing she provided to Representatives Darrell Issa of
California and F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, two Republican leaders
of the immigration enforcement campaign in Congress. ''We had to reduce the
number of low-end coyote cases we filed,'' she said, a practice supported by
other prosecutors.

Justice Department officials, at least publicly, defended Ms. Lam. But inside
headquarters, planning had begun to either force her to change her approach or
to oust her.

''The range of options includes: Replace Carol, replace Carol only if she fails
to make demonstrable improvements within 90 days (maybe shorter like 45 days),''
said a June 2006 e-mail message from William Mercer, a senior department
official, to his boss, Deputy Attorney General Paul J. McNulty.

Some complaints about Ms. Lam were those that all federal prosecutors tend to
face -- gripes about morale, grumbles among investigators about the low number
of child pornography cases prosecuted. Others were specific to her management.

For instance, in 2005, Ms. Lam made the decision to personally prosecute Tenant
Health Care Corporation for the second time on charges that the company and one
of its subsidiaries had paid more than $10 million in illegal kickbacks to
physicians. The case ended in a settlement after two federal juries did not
convict a principal executive.

While many law enforcement officials inside and outside her office said they
were impressed with Ms. Lam's decision to try the case herself, there was a
widespread view that the case distracted her from running the office and chipped
away at morale. ''She has focused too much time on personally trying cases,''
one of the Justice Department documents said.

Daniel E. Butcher, an assistant United States attorney on the case, said:
''There was a lot of time involved. I think that's fair to say.''

Mr. Butcher would not comment further on the impact of the case on the office.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2007



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about Carol C. Lam, one of eight federal
prosecutors dismissed last year, misstated the name of a health care company she
prosecuted. It is Tenet Healthcare Corporation, not Tenant Health Care
Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Carol C. Lam of California, David C. Iglesias of New
Mexico, John McKay of Washington State and Harry E. Cummins III of Arkansas, all
of whom were dismissed as United States attorneys. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Millions Entered U.S., a Debate on Letting in More

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 970 words


It was the perfect setting for a Congressional hearing on immigration, all the
speakers agreed -- the Great Hall on Ellis Island, where from 1892 to 1953 more
than 12 million immigrants waited to be let in to America.

But the meaning that could be drawn from the backdrop was a matter of
disagreement yesterday as the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration heard
testimony from scholars and immigration officials.

Some, like David V. Aguilar, chief of the Border Patrol at the Department of
Homeland Security, contrasted the orderly inspection at Ellis Island a century
ago with the chaos of illegal immigration at the Mexican border today.

''The vast majority of that clutter, that chaos at our Southern border, are
seeking economic employment,'' Mr. Aguilar said. Sending more of them into a
legal flow, like a temporary guest worker program, would let the Border Patrol
concentrate on stopping criminals, he testified.

Others noted that only 2 percent of would-be immigrants were turned away at
Ellis Island. The requirements were minimal compared with those of today, said
Representative Linda Sanchez, a Democrat from California: reasonably good health
and $10, or the equivalent of $216 in today's dollars, to show that one would
not become a public burden.

''I am the youngest daughter of immigrants who came to this country with very
little money,'' she said. ''They sent every one of my six brothers and sisters
to college.''

Zoe Lofgren, the California Democrat who chairs the subcommittee, evoked her
immigrant grandfather, Carl Robert Lofgren, who debarked in Boston at 16 a
century ago without money and speaking no English, ''armed only with his dreams,
his work ethic, his optimism and visions of America forged from reading Westerns
written in Swedish.''

''This room is a visible vestige of a controlled, orderly and fair immigration
system,'' she said.

Like four other members of the subcommittee, the lone Republican, Steve King of
Iowa, spoke of an immigrant forebear -- a grandmother, who arrived at Ellis
Island from Kiel, Germany, on March 26, 1894, as a 4-year-old. But he went on to
caution, ''The realities today are not the same.''

With a nod to the New York skyline, which could be seen through the arched
windows of the hall, sparkling across the bay, he mentioned the attacks of the
World Trade Center and warned, ''Criminal aliens are coming to the U.S. in
record numbers.''

But the testimony of several scholars painted a more optimistic outlook -- and a
less golden picture of Ellis Island's past.

Dan Siciliano, who teaches corporate governance at Stanford Law School, cited
recent research showing that the record immigration between 1990 and 2004 had
helped to increase wages in the United States, contradicting older research that
predicted the opposite would occur. He said that immigration-- including illegal
immigration --increased the wages of the native-born by an average of 1.8
percent, and by as much as 3.4 percent among 9 out of 10 native-born workers
with at least a high school education.

Mr. Siciliano, a research fellow at the Immigration Policy Center, an
organization affiliated with groups that support liberalized immigration, said
the older studies failed to recognize that immigrants create jobs as well as
fill them.

With enough immigrant waiters to staff a restaurant for lunch as well as dinner,
for example, he said, the owner will make more on his capital investment -- and
perhaps open a second restaurant across town.

''There's a divide between what we say we want from immigration and what the
economy is telling us we need,'' he said.

Immigrants at all skill levels will be needed more than ever over the next 20
years, said Dowell Myers, a demographer from the University of Southern
California, to offset the aging of the baby boom generation and the decline in
the nation's birth rates.

From the other side, Jack Martin, a director at the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, said no study showed that the United States was harmed from
1914 to 1965, when immigration was reduced to a trickle. And he suggested
tradeoffs might be necessary, noting that a new White House plan considers
denying citizens the right to sponsor foreign brothers and sisters, in exchange
for more employee visas. ''The country changes, and the needs of the country
change,'' he said.

Some things do not change, however, said Daniel J. Tichenor, who teaches history
and political science at Rutgers University.

''Each wave of 'new' immigrants has been scored by critics as incapable of
successfully joining our ranks, only later to distinguish themselves among our
most loyal and accomplished citizens,'' he said. And American history has been
marked by waves of xenophobia that ebbed as the new immigrants gained the power
of the ballot box.

He cited Benjamin Franklin's complaint that German immigrants in Pennsylvania
had made his home ''a Colony of Aliens, who will shortly be so numerous as to
Germanize us instead of our Anglifying them.''

In response, Representative King suggested that if the number of immigrants of
one group grew too large, Franklin's fear of his culture being overwhelmed was
legitimate.

''The Germans did help Germanize the United States,'' Professor Tichenor
replied. ''There was a blending.''

Mr. King persisted. ''Is there a missing component in American culture?'' he
asked.

As Mr. Tichenor thought about his answer, tourists of all complexions gawked
from the sidelines, and an audience of immigrant activists let their T-shirts do
the talking -- ''Legalize the Irish'' and ''I Love Immigrant N.Y.'' They sat on
the same benches where years ago anxious immigrants waited to be called for
inspection.

''We've always been a nation becoming,'' Professor Tichenor said. ''We've always
added layers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Congressional subcommittee heard testimony about immigration
issues at Ellis Island yesterday. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 14, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Lottery Used To Narrow Work Visa Petitions

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 745 words


Swamped by petitions for work visas from highly educated or skilled foreigners,
immigration authorities have conducted a lottery for the first time to determine
which ones will be considered, federal officials announced yesterday.

A computer randomly selected 65,000 petitions from among the 123,480 that had
passed a preliminary check for eligibility, said Shawn Saucier, a spokesman for
the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that oversees
the visas.

The lottery, conducted Thursday, brought cries of pain from technology companies
and immigration lawyers around the country. They lamented the limit that
Congress has imposed on the high-skilled visas, known as H-1B, and the
luck-of-the-draw method to make the cut.

''The people we need to contribute to our innovation economy are being subjected
to a perverse form of 'Wheel of Fortune,' '' said Robert Hoffman, vice president
for government and public affairs at the Oracle Corporation, the information
software giant based in Redwood Shores, Calif.

The immigration authorities resorted to the lottery after the annual ceiling for
the visas was exceeded by the cascade of petitions it received on April 2, the
first day of the application period. In all, the agency received 133,000
packages with visa petitions on April 2 and 3, more than double the 65,000
high-skilled visas that are available for the year beginning Oct. 1.

For the past three years, petitions for the visas have far exceeded the cap. But
this year was the first time that the cap was surpassed on the first day,
triggering the lottery, according to the agency's regulations.

The H-1B visas are three-year work visas for immigrants who have at least a
bachelor's degree, either from an American or a foreign university. Immigrants
seeking the visas generally are young adults who are software and computer
engineers, construction engineers, doctors and nurses, mathematicians and
scientists.

In 2005, the last year for which figures are available, about 40 percent of the
visas went to immigrants from India. About 54 percent of the immigrants who
received the visas that year had a master's degree, a doctorate or a
professional degree. High-skilled visa holders can extend for another three
years before they must return home. They can also apply to become permanent
residents.

With about half of this year's applicants eliminated in the lottery, thousands
of immigrants waiting overseas for jobs and foreign students graduating from
American colleges have been left in limbo.

''Many members of the Class of 2007 effectively received deportation orders and
lost their post-graduation jobs last week,'' said an April 9 editorial in The
Harvard Crimson, the student newspaper. Harvard seniors would not be able to
apply for this year's high-skilled visas until after they graduated in June.

For three years after 2001, the visa limit was raised by Congress to 195,000. It
reverted to the 65,000 in 2003. The immigration agency is still accepting
petitions for H-1B visas from those with advanced degrees from American
universities, who do not fall under the limit of 65,000.

Some critics of the visas argue that American companies use them to hire foreign
software programmers with unexceptional skills who may be willing to work for
lower wages than Americans.

''If you wanted to find a labor shortage, you would look at the data and ask if
there has been dramatic wage growth among those workers,'' said Steven Camarota,
research director at the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors curbing
immigration. ''We just don't find evidence that wages are rising.''

Corporate executives and lawyers said that employers seeking visas for
immigrants must demonstrate to the Department of Labor that no American workers
are available.

''There are penalties, and the Department of Labor really is enforcing these
rules,'' said Angelo A. Paparelli, an immigration lawyer. ''So where's the
harm?''

Several lawyers warned that businesses that could not hire skilled foreign
employees might move abroad.

Mr. Hoffman said Oracle hired 100 to 125 new H-1B visa workers each year, mainly
software engineers, many of them foreign graduates of engineering programs in
American colleges. ''The competition for this talent is global,'' he said.

Mr. Saucier said Citizenship and Immigration Services would review the petitions
to decide whether the applicants who survived the lottery met the requirements
for approval.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about a lottery by immigration authorities to
select applicants for 65,000 visas for highly skilled foreign workers misstated
the requirements employers must meet in order to sponsor the visas, known as
H-1B. For most of these visas, employers must affirm to the Labor Department
that they will pay the immigrant at least the prevailing wage for the job and
that hiring the immigrant would not negatively affect the labor conditions of
United States workers in similar jobs. Employers do not have to show that no
American workers were available for the job.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Push To Raise Cap On H-1B Visa

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 14


A coalition of business and education groups is making a renewed push to
persuade Congress to raise the number of skilled foreign workers allowed into
the United States this year.

The coalition, which calls itself Compete America and whose members are drawn
heavily from the technology industry, sent a letter to every member of Congress
on Monday calling for an increase in both the number of so-called H-1B visas,
which are used by skilled immigrants and the number of employment-based green
cards given to foreign workers.

''The first part is to ensure that U.S. companies have the ability to hire the
best and the brightest,'' said Jack Krumholtz, managing director for federal
government affairs at Microsoft. ''The second part is about making sure that we
are able to retain them.''

Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, is one of many technology executives who have
advocated increased flexibility to hire educated foreign workers like engineers
and scientists. He is expected to return to that theme at an industry conference
on Wednesday at Stanford University.

Increasing the number of H-1B visas has long been a top legislative priority of
technology companies, which say they cannot find enough skilled workers in the
United States. After a temporary increase to 195,000 during the years of the
Internet boom, the annual number of visas issued has been capped at 65,000. An
additional 20,000 visas have been granted to foreign workers who have an
advanced degree from an American university.

But in recent years, all the visas allotted for a given year were claimed on or
before the start of the fiscal year on Oct. 1.

''We can't hire people,'' said Jenifer Verdery, director of work force policy at
Intel.

The notion of allowing more skilled foreign workers in the United States
generally enjoys bipartisan support in Congress. Earlier this year, the Senate
passed a bill that would increase the cap on H-1B visas to 115,000 and would
automatically raise the cap by a further 20 percent if all visas for a given
year were claimed. The bill also would raise the number of employment-based
green cards issued to 290,000, from 140,000.

But the bill stalled as the House and Senate deadlocked on broader immigration
reform legislation. And not everyone agrees that raising the cap on visas is a
good idea.

''We think that before raising the H-1B cap there should be reform of the H-1B
system,'' said Ronil Hira, vice president for career activities at IEEE-USA, a
professional organization representing engineers and computer programmers.

The organization, which includes many immigrants among its ranks, is not opposed
to legal immigration. But Mr. Hira said that the H-1B visa program, which
requires companies to pay foreign workers wages comparable to those they pay
American workers, was riddled with loopholes that allow employers to pay subpar
wages to immigrants. That, in turn, depresses the wages of American workers, Mr.
Hira said.

Lynn Shotwell, chairwoman of Compete America, said there was virtually no chance
that Congress would pass the Senate bill this year. But Ms. Shotwell said the
coalition, which includes universities and the Chamber of Commerce, was asking
Congress to raise the cap on H-1B visas and green cards for the remainder of the
fiscal year.

Members of the coalition are hopeful that legislation modeled after the Senate
bill could be enacted next year, when Democrats will control Congress. House
Democrats have promoted what they are calling an innovation agenda that includes
wide availability of visas for skilled immigrants.

The National Venture Capital Association, which is among those advocating an
expansion in visas and green cards for skilled workers, is backing that case
with a study, to be released Wednesday, that highlights the role of immigrant
entrepreneurs in the American economy.

The study found that one in four publicly traded American companies that were
initially financed by venture capitalists in the last 15 years included at least
one immigrant among their founders. During the 1980s, immigrants were involved
in founding one in five such companies, and prior to 1980 only 7 percent.

''The notion of being able to come here and shape your own destiny is
tremendously appealing and, you have to believe, valuable for the economy, job
creation and wealth creation,'' said Axel Bichara, a partner at Atlas Venture in
Boston. Mr. Bichara came to the United States from Germany in 1986 to study at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A year later, he became co-founder of
a software company.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Low Pay and Broken Promises Greet Guest Workers in U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words


To a rice farmer from Thailand making $500 a year, the recruiter's pitch was
hard to resist -- three years of farm work in North Carolina that would pay more
than 30 times as much as he earned at home.

The pitch was so persuasive that the farmer, Worawut Khansamrit, put his farm up
as collateral to pay the recruiter $11,000 to become a guest worker. ''The
amount of money they promised was very attractive,'' said Mr. Khansamrit, a
slight, soft-spoken 40-year-old with a 15-year-old daughter he wants to send to
college.

But after he arrived in North Carolina with 30 other Thai workers, he found
there was only about a month's work. He was then taken to New Orleans to remove
debris from a hotel damaged by Hurricane Katrina -- work he says he was never
paid for. This month, he and other Thai workers filed a federal lawsuit
asserting that they were victims of illegal trafficking.

Mr. Khansamrit's tale highlights the abuses that many guest workers face at a
time when President Bush and many in Congress are pushing to expand the guest
worker program as part of an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws.

Each year 120,000 foreign workers receive visas to do farm work or other
low-skilled labor, usually for three to nine months. These programs grew out of
the World War II bracero program, in which hundreds of thousands of Mexicans
worked on farms and railroads, often in deplorable conditions.

Labor experts say employers abuse guest workers far more than other workers
because employers know they can ship them home the moment they complain. They
also know these workers cannot seek other jobs if they are unhappy.

''I'd say a substantial majority of U.S. guest workers experience some abuses
with their paycheck,'' said David Griffith, a professor in the anthropology
department at East Carolina University and author of the new book ''American
Guestworkers: Jamaicans and Mexicans in the U.S. Labor Market.'' ''It's the
recruitment process especially where they get cheated.''

The abuses take many forms. Guest workers often pay exorbitant fees and are
frequently given fewer weeks of work and lower wages than promised. Many
employers fail to make good on their commitment to pay transportation costs. The
Thai workers, who were supposed to be paid $16,000 a year for three years, ended
up earning a total of just $1,400 to $2,400. Most of the Thai workers had their
passports taken away after they arrived, leaving them trapped.

''The program has been rife with abuses, even during the best of times,'' said
Cindy Hahamovitch, a history professor at the College of William and Mary, who
is writing a book about guest workers. ''There will never be enough inspectors
to check every labor camp, contract and field.''

For decades, farmers, tree-planting companies, and hotel and restaurant owners
have argued that they need guest workers, citing a shortage of Americans willing
to fill jobs in their industries. In Washington, many supporters of an expanded
guest worker program say they want to strengthen protections to curb abusive
treatment.

''The business community supports the idea that these temporary workers should
have the exact same employment protections as American workers,'' said Randel
Johnson, co-chairman of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, a business
group lobbying to expand the guest worker program. ''When an employer can't find
an American worker to fill a job, the economy is helped if the employer can find
someone else.''

Critics, including many labor unions and immigrant groups, say employers
exaggerate the labor shortage because they are eager for cheap, docile,
temporary labor from abroad. The critics say there would not be such a shortage
of American workers if employers offered a living wage for these jobs.

In Congress, proposals to expand protections for guest workers include a
provision to bar employers from retaliating when these workers protest and one
that would let them sue in federal court over contract violations.

Earlier this month, Mr. Khansamrit and 21 other guest workers sued several labor
contractors and farmers in federal court in North Carolina, accusing them of
fraud, breach of contract, minimum wage violations and illegal trafficking.

The lawsuit, brought by Legal Aid of North Carolina, asserts that the
contractors received recruitment fees that are illegal under Thai law, provided
far less work than promised, and violated federal law by not paying
transportation costs from abroad and not paying three-fourths of the wages
promised.

''None of them gave us what they promised,'' said Pradit Wiangkham, 42, a Thai
electrician turned guest worker. Mr. Wiangkham also worked unpaid in New
Orleans, where he said the contractor ordered the workers to sleep in a
foul-smelling hotel that had no electricity, lights, hot water or potable water.
In North Carolina, the living arrangements were not much better; at times 33
Thai workers slept in a storage shed behind the labor contractor's house, the
workers said.

The workers' lawyers say federal officials should have detected that something
was awry because the contractors were applying to bring in so many Asian workers
to work just three months.

''Why would someone want to bring workers from Asia all the way to the East
Coast for such a short-term, low-wage job?'' said Lori Elmer, a lawyer for the
workers. ''They couldn't break even unless there was fraud.''

Seo Homsombath, the president of Million Express Manpower, a small labor
contracting company that works closely with recruiters overseas, did not respond
to faxes and a letter to his home in North Carolina. Roy Raynor, another
principal, declined comment.

But in a separate lawsuit, Mr. Raynor testified that Mr. Homsombath and he were
supposed to receive payments from the recruiters in Thailand. He said he was to
receive $1,200 for each worker, ostensibly for training them to pick cucumbers.

David James, a Labor Department spokesman, said the department was investigating
whether the contractor failed to provide adequate wages and housing and failed
to pay for transportation. He said the department had no rules regarding the
payment of recruitment fees overseas.

Advocates say the Labor Department should require employers to repay recruitment
fees and transportation costs from abroad when such costs effectively bring the
workers' wages below the minimum wage.

The Thai guest workers are not alone in their complaints. Legal Aid of North
Carolina has also sued on behalf of three Indonesians.

Several of the Indonesians and Thais have applied for special visas available to
workers who have been trafficked illegally. With such visas, they hope to work
in the United States to repay their debts.

''I felt completely defrauded,'' said Indra Budiawan, who had been a waiter in
Indonesia. ''They never gave me any work after I arrived.''

Mr. Budiawan, 28, paid $6,000 -- 10 times his annual pay -- putting up his
in-laws' ancestral land as collateral after a recruiter showed him a brochure
about farm work in North Carolina and about the good housing and food that guest
workers receive. ''When I was at the airport in Jakarta, I felt very happy,'' he
said. ''I felt extremely proud about the job I would have in America, given that
there is so much poverty and unemployment in Indonesia.''

But when he arrived, the head of the GTN Employment Agency, Leeta Kang, told him
there were no farm jobs. He was taken to a sign-making store that was the
contractor's main business. There, Mr. Budiawan slept on the storage room floor,
waiting for work that never materialized.

Mr. Budiawan told Ms. Kang that he wanted to leave. But he said she demanded
$2,000 for a return ticket and for the passport she had taken from him. After
two weeks without work, Mr. Budiawan fled. He is now living in Miami with two
other Indonesian guest workers.

Mr. Budiawan called his father-in-law, whose land was used as collateral, to
explain his predicament. ''I felt very ashamed,'' he said. ''Everyone was
depending on me. And now the bank has taken steps to repossess our ancestral
land.''

Ms. Kang insisted that it was not her fault there was no work for Mr. Budiawan.
''He showed up way behind schedule,'' she said. ''By the time he arrived, the
farm owner had already canceled everything.''

Ms. Kang said a squash farmer had completed his harvest and no longer needed Mr.
Budiawan. She said she had tried in vain to contact the recruiters in Indonesia
to alert them that she no longer needed Mr. Budiawan and several others.

''The agents in Indonesia were obviously just trying to get money out of them,''
Ms. Kang said. ''Whatever these people paid, none of it went to us.''

Mike Moore, the squash farmer, said Ms. Kang had asked him to apply for far more
guest workers than he needed. ''She told me to take 50,'' he said. ''I told her,
'I might need five. I might need 25.' She said, 'That's no problem. Even if you
don't need them, we have plenty of work for them in other places.' ''

Some experts say abuses are more likely when contractors, rather than farmers,
bring in guest workers.

''The guest worker program is not for contractors who feel they might be able to
find work for other people,'' said Mary Bauer, director of the Immigrant Justice
Project at the Southern Poverty Law Center. ''It's for people who have a
compelling need to bring in workers from abroad. There's an enormous incentive
for contractors to bring in as many people as possible, even when there isn't
enough work, because they often make money from recruitment fees.''

Experts say that in some states, contractors bring in less than 10 percent of
the guest workers, while in other states, they bring in half.

Like the other Thai guest workers, Chinnawat Kompeemay, who ran a grocery store
near Bangkok, is in limbo, living in temporary housing in Virginia.

''All I wanted was to provide my children with a better education and living
standards,'' he said. ''If my children get the education I want them to have,
they won't be tricked the same way. They won't be taken advantage of like their
father.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pradit Wiangkham, right
Chinnawat Kompeemay, center
and Worawut Khansamrit, behind Mr. Kompeemay, were recruited from Thailand.
(Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 Andre Sanipar, left, and Komang Agus Suryata, guest workers from Indonesia,
have joined a federal lawsuit against a labor contractor. (Photo by Barbara P.
Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush on the Border

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 603 words


President Bush went to the Mexico border in Arizona on Monday and showed once
again that immigration is an issue he understands. He said America suffers from
a system that exploits people who come to do jobs that citizens won't do. He
said the country needed ''a practical answer'' that promotes an orderly flow of
legal immigrants, eases pressure at the border and opens a path to citizenship
for the hidden 12 million who keep our economy humming. And he urged Congress to
find that answer through a ''serious and civil and conclusive debate.''

It was good that Mr. Bush made these points, as he periodically does. But there
was a dissonance in his speech, because it came only two weeks after he and a
group of Senate Republicans circulated a list of ''first principles'' about
immigration that amounted to a huge step backward for efforts to fix a broken
system in a reasonable, humane way.

It proposed new conditions on immigrant labor so punitive and extreme that they
amounted to a radical rethinking of immigration -- not as an expression of the
nation's ideals and an integral source of its vitality and character, but as a
strictly contractual phenomenon designed to extract cheap labor from an
unwelcome underclass.

New immigrant workers and those already here would all be treated as itinerant
laborers. They could renew their visas, but only by paying extortionate fees and
fines. There would be a path to legal status, but one so costly and long that it
is essentially a mirage: by some estimates, a family of five could pay more than
$64,000 and wait up to 25 years before any member could even apply for a green
card. Other families would be torn apart; new workers and those who legalize
themselves would have no right to sponsor relatives to join them.

In a country that views immigrants as its lifeblood and cherishes the unity of
families, the Republican talking points were remarkable for their chill of
nativism and exploitation. They were also unrealistic. The hurdles would create
huge impediments to hiring and keeping a stable work force, while pushing the
illegal economy deeper underground.

The thrust of Mr. Bush's speech leaves little room for a vision as crabbed and
inhumane as the one he and his party have circulated. It's hard to tell whether
his plainspoken eloquence in Yuma was meant to distance himself from those
earlier and benighted talking points, or whether he has simply been talking out
of both sides of his mouth.

Mr. Bush should clear up the confusion. He should reaffirm the importance of
family-based immigration and of an achievable path to citizenship for those
willing, as he put it, ''to pay their debt to society and demonstrate the
character that makes a good citizen.''

Clarity and forcefulness from Mr. Bush are important because the prospects for a
good immigration bill this year are so uncertain. The Senate plans to take up
the issue next month, but there is no bill yet, and the talking-points memo
shows the debate drifting to the hard right. Edward Kennedy, the Senate's most
stalwart advocate of comprehensive reform, has been left in the lurch as the
Republican presidential hopefuls John McCain and Sam Brownback have run away
from sensible positions to court hard-line voters. A decent bipartisan House
bill, sponsored by Representatives Jeff Flake and Luis Gutierrez, may not get
the hearing it deserves.

Mr. Bush made a strong case for comprehensive reform on Monday. He should keep
it up -- publicly and forthrightly, as he did this week, and forget about
backroom negotiations that produce harsh political manifestoes to appease
hard-liners.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Raids 6 Meat Plants In ID Case

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 495 words


In simultaneous dawn raids, federal immigration agents swept into six Swift &
Company meatpacking plants in six states yesterday, rounding up hundreds of
immigrant workers in what the agents described as a vast criminal investigation
of identity theft.

More than 1,000 agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement appeared at 6
a.m. at the Swift plants with warrants to search for illegal immigrants. Inside,
agents separated American citizens from immigrants, interviewing all the foreign
workers and taking hundreds away in buses to immigration detention centers.

In a new enforcement tactic, federal officials said they planned to bring
criminal charges against some of the immigrants accused of using stolen
identities. They said the raids were tied to complaints from United States
citizens who discovered that their names were being used by Swift plant workers.

''There are several hundred Americans who were victimized,'' said Marc Raimondi,
a spokesman for the immigration agency, known as I.C.E.

Other immigrants who are found to be living illegally in the United States will
be deported, Mr. Raimondi said.

The raids brought protests from Swift, the only business singled out, and from
the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, which organizes
employees at five of the six plants.

Sam Rovit, chief executive of Swift, said the company learned of the I.C.E.
investigation in March, but had been ''rebuffed repeatedly'' when it offered to
cooperate. Mr. Rovit said the company had participated since 1997 in a federal
program known as Basic Pilot, which allows employers to use a federal database
to verify documents presented by job-seekers.

''We have complied with every law that is out there on the books,'' Mr. Rovit
said in an interview.

The six plants employ more than 10,000 people, Swift executives said.

Mr. Rovit said the company had been careful to avoid inquiring too deeply into
backgrounds of job applicants. He said the Justice Department sued Swift in 2001
charging that it discriminated against immigrant workers. The case was settled
for $200,000, a company statement said.

Illegal immigrants frequently use false Social Security cards or residency
documents known as green cards when they apply for jobs. I.C.E. officials said
the operation focused on immigrants who had obtained documents with identity
information corresponding to that of United States citizens, in some cases by
buying them from underground organizations that traffic in false documents.

Officials at the union called the operation a ''wholesale roundup'' and said
they would seek injunctions on behalf of the detained workers.

''Worksite raids are not an effective form of immigration reform,'' said Jill
Cashen, a spokeswoman for the union. ''They terrorize workers and destroy
families.''

The immigration agency raided plants in Hyrum, Utah; Greeley, Colo.; Cactus,
Tex.; Grand Island, Neb.; Marshalltown, Iowa; and Worthington, Minn.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marta Granillo, right, crying for her husband, relatives and
friends who were arrested yesterday in an immigration raid at a plant in
Greeley, Colo. (Photo by Ahmad Terry/The Rocky Mountain News, via Associated
Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 24, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Go From Farms to Jails, And a Climate of Fear Settles In

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1764 words

DATELINE: ELBA, N.Y.


A cold December rain gusted across fields of cabbage destined for New York City
egg rolls, cole slaw and Christmas goose. Ankle-deep in mud, six immigrant
farmworkers raced to harvest 120,000 pounds before nightfall, knowing that at
dawn they could find immigration agents at their door.

The farmer who stopped to check their progress had lost 28 other workers in a
raid in October, all illegal Mexican immigrants with false work permits at
another farm here in western New York. Throughout the region, farm hands have
simply disappeared by twos and threes, picked up on a Sunday as they went to
church or to the laundry. Whole families have gone into hiding, like the couple
who spent the night with their child in a plastic calf hutch.

As record-setting enforcement of immigration laws upends old, unspoken
arrangements, a new climate of fear is sweeping through the rural communities of
western and central New York.

''The farmers are just petrified at what's happening to their workers,'' said
Maureen Torrey, an 11th-generation grower and a director of the Federal Reserve
Bank's Buffalo branch whose family owns this field and more than 10,000 acres of
vegetable and dairy farms.

And for the first time in years, farmers are also frightened for themselves. In
small towns divided over immigration, they fear that speaking out -- or a
disgruntled neighbor's call to the authorities -- could make them targets of the
next raid and raise the threat of criminal prosecution.

Here where agriculture is the mainstay of a depressed economy, the mainstay of
agriculture is largely illegal immigrant labor from Mexico. Now, more aggressive
enforcement has disrupted a system of official winks, nods and paperwork that
for years protected farmers from ''knowingly'' hiring the illegal immigrants who
make up most of their work force.

''It serves as a polarizing force in communities,'' said Mary Jo Dudley, who
directs the Cornell Farmworker Program, which does research. ''The immigrant
workers themselves see anyone as a potential enemy. The growers are nervous
about everyone. There's this environment of fear and mistrust all across the
board.''

In a recent case that chilled many farmers, federal agents trying to develop a
criminal case detained several longtime Hispanic employees of a small dairy farm
in Clifton Springs, and unsuccessfully pressed them to give evidence that the
owners knew they were here illegally.

Since raids began to increase in early spring, arrests have netted dozens of
Mexican farm workers on their way to milk parlors, apple orchards and vineyards,
and prompted scores more to flee, affecting hundreds of farms. Some longtime
employees with American children were deported too quickly for goodbyes, or
remain out of reach in the federal detention center in Batavia, N.Y., where
immigrants are tracked by alien registration number, not by name.

Federal officials say events here simply reflect a national commitment to more
intensive enforcement of immigration laws, showcased in raids in December at
Swift & Company meatpacking plants in six states.

The effort led to a record 189,924 deportations nationally during the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, up 12 percent from the year before, officials said,
and 2,186 deportations from Buffalo, up 24 percent. It includes prosecuting
employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants, better cooperation with state
and local law enforcement, and new money from Congress for more agents, more
detention beds and quicker deportations.

In small towns like Sodus, Dresden and Elba, where a welcome sign declares that
the population of 2,369 is ''Just Right,'' some residents quietly approve of the
crackdown. They are unhappy with the growing year-round presence of Mexicans
they consider a drain on public services, resentful of the political clout of
farmers, or concerned about the porous borders denounced nightly on CNN by Lou
Dobbs. Others are torn, praising Mexican families but worried that some farmers
exploit them.

Farm lenders and lobbyists warn of economic losses that will be measurable in
unharvested crops, hundreds of closed farms and revenues lost in the wine
tourism of the Finger Lakes. On the other side, supporters of stringent
enforcement expect savings in schools and hospitals, and a boost to low wages as
the labor market tightens.

The harvest of fear may be harder to chart, but it is already here. It can be
felt in Sodus, where an October raid left a dozen children without either parent
for days, and in vineyards near Penn Yan, where a grower of fine cabernet grapes
reluctantly permits a worker to sleep in a car, hidden in the vines that he
prunes. Everywhere, rumors fly about why one place was raided and not another,
feeding suspicion and a fear of speaking out.

For Rodney and Debbie Brown, the dairy farmers in Clifton Springs who lost 6 of
their 10 employees to immigration arrests, the experience began like an episode
of ''The Twilight Zone.''

When no workers showed up at 6:30 a.m. on Aug. 28 to help milk 580 waiting cows,
Mr. Brown went to the farmhouse where most of their Hispanic employees lived,
only to find it eerily empty. Some of the workers had been with the Browns for
more than seven years.

''All of a sudden they were all gone,'' Mrs. Brown said. ''It was very scary.''

Later, the Browns learned that agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement
had been waiting for the workers in their driveway at dawn with state troopers,
and had whisked them to the 450-bed detention center in Batavia, where there
were 3,094 admissions this year. Like an estimated 650,000 immigrants in New
York State and some 11 million nationally, the employees were in the United
States illegally; the permits and Social Security cards they had shown to the
Browns were fake.

What prompts such raids is rarely disclosed. But federal officials have said
that they pursue tips from the public, adding to uneasy speculation about
private vendettas or political retaliation. Such talk abounded in Sodus, for
example, after an October raid at Marshall Farms, a large breeder of ferrets and
dogs for pharmaceutical companies. The consensus, several residents said, was
that a disgruntled American employee had called in the complaint.

More than 18 workers, many of them longtime employees with children in Sodus
schools or day care, were summoned by name to the office from their jobs
cleaning animal cages, and taken away -- the men to Batavia, the women to
unspecified county jails.

''A lot of the employees down there were very heartbroken to see the women walk
out with shackles around their feet and handcuffs chained around their waists,
crying,'' said Cliff DeMay, a large private labor contractor who supplies
agricultural businesses in seven states with workers, and accepts their papers
at face value -- part of a system that has allowed deniability to everyone but
the illegal worker.

''The I.C.E., they've always picked up people on complaints,'' he added. ''It's
not the Border Patrol or I.C.E.'s fault. It's the fault of our damn
politicians.''

But Mr. DeMay also echoed a widespread view that those who criticized the raids
were asking for trouble.

Others, including the Farm Bureau, pointed to the unusual intensification of the
dairy investigation after Mr. Brown was quoted in a Sept. 11 Associated Press
account. Michael W. Gilhooly, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, responded that raids were ''carefully planned'' and ''result from
investigative leads and intelligence.''

Mrs. Brown, 46, said she was summoned to thefederal building in Rochester and
questioned for an hour and a half by immigration agents who threatened to
subpoena her phone records. Federal prosecutors then brought felony charges
against the workers for using fake Social Security numbers to get their milking
jobs.

But rather than turn against their former employers in exchange for leniency, as
prosecutors wanted, the Mexican men pleaded guilty to felonies and accepted
deportation, said Michael Bersani and Anne Doebler, lawyers who represented them
in immigration court. Government lawyers would not discuss the case.

Neighboring farmers, who helped the Browns milk, seemed shaken. ''A lot of them
say, 'We should write letters to the editor, but we don't want to draw attention
to ourselves,' '' Mrs. Brown said. ''Everyone is very panicky.''

Some have a different perspective. Ray Woodhams, 58, a Sodus resident who works
at a Rochester hospital that was sued by Hispanic employees who were barred from
speaking Spanish, said he was glad to read of the arrests.

''The farmers have got their view, but they're shortsighted -- they're not
looking at the country as a whole,'' said Mr. Woodhams, who notes that he is a
registered Democrat and the son of a Dutch immigrant farmer. ''The farmers say
they can't get labor. Well, if they paid a decent wage, maybe they could.'' The
Browns, echoing many farmers, counter that they have found no one steady to fill
the vacant jobs.

Many labor advocates, after years of fighting farmers for wage and hour
protections, find themselves in an uneasy alliance with their old foes.

''Suddenly everybody's interest is the same: Save the lives of the migrants,''
said John Ghertner, who is on the board of Rural and Migrant Ministry, an
interfaith advocacy group. ''From the farmers' perspective, so they have labor.
From our point of view, human rights.''

The smaller the farm and the more settled the work force, the more wrenching the
arrests. Or so it seemed as friends gathered around the wife of a vineyard
worker arrested in Yates County four days earlier, on his way to prune vines he
had tended for a decade. His three children, 14, 11 and 2, are all
American-born.

His wife, weeping, described how the agents who had taken him and two others
into custody on the road circled back to the house to try to take her, too. As
the agents banged at the door and tried to open it, she hid in the bedroom with
the 2-year-old, she said, and put her hand over his mouth when he started to
cry.

Victor Feria Reyes, the state-licensed labor contractor who had dispatched the
father and the others to the vineyard, said that throughout the Finger Lakes,
his crews were down by half. ''A lot of people hate us,'' he said as his
daughter Elenita, 8, leaned close. ''They just say, 'Take them away.' ''

The owner of the vineyard, who had lost three of his five workers to immigration
arrests, called them ''part of my family,'' but begged not to be named. ''I'm
afraid of retaliation,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, top: Harvesting cabbage in Elba
Debbie and Rodney Brown on their dairy farm in Clifton Springs. Above, from
left: Victor Feria Reyes, with his daughter, Elenita, discussing farmworkers'
situation
and Gerardo Gomez, visiting the Browns' dairy farm. He faces deportation, but
refused to testify against them, saying they were good to him. (Photo by Kevin
Rivoli for The New York Times)
(Photo by Mike Groll for The New York Times)
(Photos by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)(pg. 21)
 Migrant workers on the way to work at the Morse Farm, above, in Branchport,
N.Y., were recently arrested. (Photo by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)(pg.
24)Chart: ''More Deportations''The number of people deported from the U.S. rose
more than 75 percent from fiscal years 2000 to 2006. Many of these removals
stemmed from stricter enforcement against illegal workers.Graph tracks the
number of people deported from the U.S. since 2000.(Source by U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement)(pg. 24)Map of New York State highlighting Elba. (pg.
24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing Americas: Mexico: U.S. Security Chief In First Visit

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 87 words


On his first official visit to Mexico, Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff said he considered an expanded guest-worker program for Mexican
migrants as key to stopping terrorists and criminals from slipping into the
United States. ''Every time a Border Patrol officer is transporting a load of
future housekeepers and landscapers to some place to be returned, he's not
looking for drug dealers or drug loads,'' Mr. Chertoff said after two days of
meetings with Mexico's top security officials.   JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: Immigration Seen Raising Worker Pay

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 97 words


The huge influx of immigrant workers to California since 1990 generated a 4
percent increase in the wages of the average American worker in the state,
according to a study by the Public Policy Institute of California, a nonpartisan
research group. American workers moved into higher-paying jobs as immigrants
filled low-skilled occupations, concluded the study by Giovanni Peri of the
University of California, Davis. The study also found no evidence that
immigrants arriving after 1960 had displaced American workers with the same
education in the state's job market.   JULIA PRESTON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Immigration Maze, With No Answers

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME.

E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y.


Like a stranger in a strange land, Carlos Morales, a 26-year-old day laborer who
came to Long Island six years ago from Mexico, is a perceptive observer of the
suburban terrain where he works, goes to school and dreams of a better life.

So as he rides the bus or walks to Suffolk County Community College, past the
mysterious signs reading ''Rose Riot'' (that's a $7.99-a-dozen sale) or
recruiting youths for lacrosse, as he observes the women in their big S.U.V.s
and the hostile glares when he enters non-Latino businesses, he takes note of
many things.

There are the kids tossing bottles or tomatoes at immigrant workers from passing
cars. There are the men who, he insists, protest illegal immigration at night
and then turn around and hire the same laborers by day. There's the policeman
who stopped him on the street and demanded to know what was in his backpack
(schoolbooks) and who photographs immigrant workers for a running dossier.

There's the 12-year-old boy he can't get out of his head, who, when asked by a
television interviewer what he thought of immigrant workers, answered, ''I hate
them.''

But sitting the other day at the Paisa Pan Colombian bakery with a beef empanada
and a cup of coffee, he could not begin to figure out the maze that is
immigration policy in America.

After all, he lives in a place where the county executive, Steve Levy, has made
a national reputation for himself as an outspoken critic of illegal immigration
and last week called for a crackdown in the county, including antiloitering
legislation and the assignment of federal immigration officials to the county
jail, the better to deport people who are here illegally.

At the same time Mr. Morales knows that other communities, mostly larger than
Farmingville, like Newark, Trenton and New Haven, have formally or informally
set themselves up as safe havens for immigrants, where workers are welcome
whether they are here legally or not.

And then there are the Minutemen, the self-appointed border patrol that seems to
him a throwback to vigilante justice in Texas 100 years ago.

It is as if immigration policy is not a national issue but a local one, like
zoning or the school curriculum. New Haven, si, Danbury, no. Trenton, si,
Freehold, no.

And that, of course, is pretty much the case. It is, after all, entirely
possible that immigration has become an issue with so many disparate
constituencies and competing economic interests to please that we've given up on
a solution. Better to muddle along than make hard, unpalatable choices.

''No matter what position you take, someone is not going to like it,'' Mr.
Morales said.

He is not sure what will work, either. He thinks a just policy would provide
legal status for people like him who came illegally but have worked hard, doing
jobs Americans often won't.

But when asked why he should be rewarded ahead of people seeking legal status
through available channels, he doesn't pretend to have an easy answer. He puts
himself inside the mind of his neighbors in Suffolk County and can understand
some of their unease about this new population of people living in the shadows,
working for less.

THIS is how Carlos Morales came to this country. The youngest of eight children,
and hoping to support his family, he paid a coyote the enormous sum of $1,500 to
cross the Sonoran Desert. The group of immigrants went without water for three
days, finally finding a muddy pond on a cattle ranch that was good enough for
the cows and good enough for them.

Since arriving here he has worked construction and odd jobs. He fell from a tree
doing tree work, hurt his back and is still paying his hospital bills.

He has passed the English as a second language course at Suffolk and is now
working on his G.E.D. He hopes to go to college and study photojournalism or
political science. He has seen more at 26 than many of us ever do, so he watches
the morass of immigration policy and knows at least two things.

First, he says, this is not new. America honors its immigration history in the
abstract but often looks with disdain on its newcomers -- the Italians, the
Irish, the Chinese, the Jews. Now, it's Hispanics. Second, it will take more
than an antiloitering law or bottles and tomatoes to get him to leave. He fought
to get here. He'll fight to stay here.

''I hear people say they have to go back, they have to go back,'' he said of
immigrants here illegally. ''Well, they're not going to go back. They're already
here. They're not going to go back to Mexico and live in the same situation they
were before. So that's being realistic. People are not going to go back.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quota Quickly Filled on Visas For High-Tech Guest Workers

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 322 words


The federal Citizenship and Immigration Services reached its 2008 limit for
skilled-worker visa petitions in a single day and says it will not accept any
more, to the dismay of technology companies that rely on the visas to hire
foreign employees.

The agency began accepting petitions Monday for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1
and said it received about 150,000 applications by midafternoon.

The temporary H-1B visas are for foreign workers with high-technology skills or
in specialty occupations. Congress has mandated that the immigration agency
limit the visas granted to 65,000, although the cap does not apply to petitions
made on behalf of current H-1B holders, and an additional 20,000 visas can be
granted to applicants who hold advanced degrees from American academic
institutions.

The agency said it would use computers to pick visa recipients randomly from the
applications received Monday and Tuesday. It will reject the rest of the
applications and return the filing fees.

Employers seek H-1B visas on behalf of scientists, engineers, computer
programmers and other workers with theoretical or technical expertise. About
one-third of Microsoft's 46,000 employees in the United States have work visas
or are legal permanent residents with green cards, said Ginny Terzano, a
spokeswoman for the company.

''We are trying to work with Congress to get the cap increased,'' Ms. Terzano
said. ''Our real preference here is that there not be a cap at all.''

Compete America, a coalition that includes Microsoft, the chip maker Intel, the
business software company Oracle and others, voiced its opposition to the visa
cap in a statement Tuesday.

''Our broken visa policies for highly educated foreign professionals are not
only counterproductive, they are anticompetitive and detrimental to America's
long-term economic competitiveness,'' said Robert E. Hoffman, an Oracle vice
president and co-chairman of Compete America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 11, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Arizona: Money Seizures Ruled Illegal

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 79 words


A judge has ruled that the state has no right to seize money transfers that
originate in other states, dealing a blow to its effort to clamp down on
immigrant smuggling money. Judge Kenneth L. Fields of Superior Court ruled that
the effort by the Arizona attorney general's office was unconstitutional and
that prosecutors had not demonstrated that the Western Union customers in
question were involved in crimes. The attorney general, Terry Goddard, said he
planned to appeal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Immigrant Centers Inspected

BYLINE: By RACHEL SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 103 words


A federal inspection of 5 of the nation's 325 immigrant detention centers found
that most did not provide timely and responsive health care and sometimes failed
to comply with the government's standards of disciplining, classifying and
housing detainees. The audit by the Department of Homeland Security also found a
rape of a detainee in one center and a failure to provide access to legal
services in another. Three centers did not translate handbooks into Spanish and
other languages. Homeland security officials said the study was too small to be
representative of the country's detention centers.    RACHEL SWARNS

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Groups Compare Immigrant Detention Centers to Prisons

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21


Two advocacy groups for refugees said on Wednesday that the Bush administration
routinely detained immigrant families in prisonlike housing that separated young
children from their parents and sometimes provided inadequate medical care, food
and educational opportunities, despite calls from Congress to house such
families in ''nonpenal, homelike environments.''

The Department of Homeland Security, which allowed the advocacy groups to visit
the two detention centers that house immigrant families, has already corrected
several problems identified by the groups. The two groups, the Women's
Commission for Refugee Women and Children and Lutheran Immigration and Refugee
Services, are expected to release their report on Thursday.

But department officials, who said they were still reviewing the report,
vigorously defended the quality of services provided by the 512-bed T. Don Hutto
Residential Center, which opened last year in Texas, and the Berks Family
Shelter Care Facility, which houses about 80 families in Pennsylvania. The
centers hold immigrants and asylum seekers awaiting the outcomes of their cases.

''They adhere to the highest standards,'' said Marc Raimondi, a department
spokesman.

The complaints come one month after a federal inspection of 5 of the nation's
325 immigrant detention centers found that most did not provide timely and
responsive health care and sometimes failed to comply with the government's
standards of disciplining, classifying and housing detainees. Officials of the
Homeland Security Department say the study was too small to be representative.

The new report found that women at the Hutto center received inadequate prenatal
care and that children received only one hour of schooling a day. At both
centers, children as young as 6 were separated from their parents, and
separation of families and the threats of separation were used as disciplinary
tools.

The study praised the Berks center for providing adequate educational
opportunities and allowing families to participate in field trips and outdoor
recreation time. But it says both centers are modeled on prisons, even though
they hold people who are fleeing persecution or stand accused of violating civil
immigration laws, not criminal codes.

''The prisonlike conditions, this form of detention, is not necessary,'' said
Michelle Brane, who heads the detention and asylum program at the Women's
Commission for Refugee Women and Children.

''We release criminals,'' said Ms. Brane, pointing to parole and monitored
supervision programs. ''Yet for immigrants in civil proceedings, they have not
explored those options. And these are families with children.''

Mr. Raimondi said the family detention system was expanded to help end the
routine practice of releasing immigrant families caught sneaking across the
border. Smugglers began taking advantage of the loophole and pairing children
with unrelated adults in hopes of ensuring their release, officials say. Some
children were abandoned or abused. Mr. Raimondi said the centers provided a safe
place for families and ''serve as a deterrent to alien smugglers who needlessly
endanger children's lives.''

Ms. Brane said officials of the Homeland Security Department had addressed some
of her concerns.

The Hutto center contracted with a local clinic to provide medical care to
pregnant women. It also expanded the educational program to four hours a day
from one.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 14, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taxi Workers' Alliance May Join Labor Group

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 648 words


The New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a group of 7,000 taxi drivers, is not a
labor union, but in an unusual move, the New York City Central Labor Council
will vote tomorrow to make the alliance its newest member.

Ed Ott, the labor council's executive director, said his group was eager for the
taxi drivers to join because organized labor wants to strengthen its ties with
immigrant workers' groups.

The taxi workers' alliance sees many advantages to joining the labor council,
which is made up of one million workers from 400 union locals. The drivers say
they hope the council will use its lobbying muscle to help them obtain health
coverage and short-term disability insurance.

In addition, many taxi drivers are pleased that the move will give them access
to low-cost computer classes and English classes at the Consortium for Worker
Education, a union-sponsored school.

''For us, this is a big deal,'' Mr. Ott said. ''This is an important
organization in this city. We want to refocus our immigration work on
organizations that really have the potential to become unions and are leading
immigrant workers to organized labor.''

A majority of the city's 26,000 taxi drivers are from South Asia, and about
one-fourth of all drivers belong to the taxi workers' alliance. Over the years,
the alliance has shown its power by organizing a one-day taxi strike and by
playing a pivotal role in securing the 11 percent fare increase that takes
effect next month.

''We've been able to do a lot on our own, and we're proud of it,'' said Bhairavi
Desai, executive director of the alliance. ''We recognized that by affiliating
with the central labor council, that will increase our resources and political
strength.''

Under rulings from the National Labor Relations Board, the drivers -- who
generally lease their cabs or medallions -- are considered independent
contractors, not employees, and therefore do not have a right to unionize and
negotiate contracts with the taxi garages.

Mr. Ott said the alliance had done well despite that challenge. He said,
''They're a real organization of working people that has managed to improve
standards for their members.''

In August, the national A.F.L.-C.I.O., the labor council's parent group,
announced that it would push to strengthen ties with immigrant workers' groups
to help attract these workers to unions and to improve immigrants' wages and
working conditions. . As part of this push, the taxi workers' alliance will be
the first immigrant workers' group nationwide to affiliate with a central labor
council.

Ms. Desai said she hoped the labor council would help lobby the City Council to
ensure that the city's garages provide health insurance to taxi drivers.

''Because this is a hyper-regulated industry, we think there can be a political
solution to every problem the drivers face,'' Ms. Desai said. ''There's no
reason that the owners in the industry can't contribute to a health fund.''

Javaid Tariq, a Pakistani immigrant who has been a taxi driver for 10 years,
said he was glad to join the labor council, not just because it will help
drivers, but because ''we want to help other working-class people.''

''Health issues are our biggest problem,'' Mr. Tariq said. ''The drivers don't
have any type of health insurance. We drive 12-hour days, and after many years,
there are a lot of health issues: bladder infections, stomach problems, muscle
problems, back problems.''

Ms. Desai said New York's taxi drivers generally work 60 to 70 hours a week and
earn $27,000 to $33,000 a year.

She said many drivers were eager to take computer classes to learn how to use
the Internet.

''These workers haven't had access to the American educational system,'' she
said. ''A lot are members in their 40s and 50s who want to learn the computer
specifically because they want to keep up with their children back in their home
countries.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 12, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Indentured Servants In America

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 720 words


A must-read for anyone who favors an expansion of guest worker programs in the
U.S. is a stunning new report from the Southern Poverty Law Center that details
the widespread abuse of highly vulnerable, poverty-stricken workers in programs
that already exist.

The report is titled ''Close to Slavery: Guestworker Programs in the United
States.'' It will be formally released today at a press conference in
Washington.

Workers recruited from Mexico, South America, Asia and elsewhere to work in
American hotels and in such labor-intensive industries as forestry, seafood
processing and construction are often ruthlessly exploited.

They are routinely cheated out of their wages, which are low to begin with. They
are bound like indentured servants to the middlemen and employers who arrange
their work tours in the U.S. And they are virtual hostages of the American
companies that employ them.

The law does not allow these ''guests'' to change jobs while they're here. If a
particular employer is unscrupulous, as is very often the case, the worker has
little or no recourse.

One of the guest workers profiled in the report was a psychology student
recruited in the Dominican Republic to work at a hotel in New Orleans in the
aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The woman had taken on $4,000 in debt to cover
''fees'' and other expenses that were required for her to get a desk job that
paid $6 an hour.

But after a month, her hours were steadily reduced until she was working only 15
or 20 hours a week. That left her with barely enough money to survive, and with
no way of paying off her crushing debt.

The woman and her fellow guest workers had hardly enough money for food. ''We
would just buy Chinese food because it was the cheapest,'' she said. ''We would
buy one plate a day and share it between two or three people.'' She told the
authors of the report: ''I felt like an animal without claws -- defenseless. It
is the same as slavery.''

Steven Greenhouse of The Times recently reported on a waiter from Indonesia who
took on $6,000 in debt to become a guest worker. He arrived in North Carolina
expecting to do farm work but found that there was no job for him at all.

The report focused primarily on the 120,000 foreign workers who are allowed into
the U.S. each year to work on farms or at other low-skilled jobs. In most cases
the guest workers take on a heavy debt load to participate in the program,
anywhere from $500 to more than $10,000. Worried about the welfare of their
families back home, and with the huge debt hanging over their heads, the workers
are most often docile, even in the face of the most egregious treatment.

The result, said the report, is that they are ''systematically exploited and
abused.''

Some of the worst abuses occur in the forestry industry. The report said,
''Virtually every forestry company that the Southern Poverty Law Center has
encountered provides workers with pay stubs showing that they have worked
substantially fewer hours than they actually worked.''

A favorite (and extremely cruel) tactic of employers is the seizure of guest
workers' identity documents, such as passports and Social Security cards. That
leaves the workers incredibly vulnerable.

''Numerous employers have refused to return these documents even when the worker
simply wanted to return to his home country,'' the report said. ''The Southern
Poverty Law Center also has encountered numerous incidents where employers
destroyed passports or visas in order to convert workers into undocumented
status.''

Without their papers the workers live in abject fear of encountering the
authorities, who will treat them as illegals. They are completely at the mercy
of the employers.

President Bush has been relentless in his push to greatly expand guest worker
programs as part of his effort to revise the nation's immigration laws. To
expand these programs without looking closely at the gruesome abuses already
taking place would be both tragic and ridiculous.

''This is not a situation where there are just a few bad-apple employers,'' said
Mary Bauer, director of the Immigrant Justice Project at the Southern Poverty
Law Center, which has initiated a number of lawsuits on behalf of abused
workers. ''Our experience is that it's the very structure of the program that
lends itself to abuse.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Suit Says Nursery Paid Illegal Wages

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, April 9


The federal Department of Labor has sued a Connecticut nursery and its
recruiter, supporting migrant workers who claim they were forced to work nearly
80 hours a week and were paid less than the minimum wage.

In the suits, filed last week and announced on Monday, the Labor Department
accused the nursery, Imperial Nurseries in Granby, Conn., of failing to pay the
workers the minimum wage and its labor recruiter of failing to obtain transport
approval.

The suits come after a dozen Guatemalan workers filed a federal lawsuit in
February against Imperial and its recruiter, Pro Tree Forestry.

The workers say they were promised jobs planting trees in North Carolina for
$7.50 an hour. Instead, they say, they were taken in a van to Connecticut
without their consent, had their passports confiscated so they would not escape
and were threatened with arrest or deportation.

The latest suits, filed in United States District Court, accuse Imperial and Pro
Tree Forestry of failing to pay the workers properly.

Labor officials are asking a judge to order the defendants to pay 27 workers
back wages and damages and to prohibit the defendants in the future from
violating the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act and the
Fair Labor Standards Act.

Pro Tree, based in Tallahassee, Fla., was also accused of failing to adhere to
the Worker Protection Act requirement to obtain approval to use a van to
transport the workers.

Imperial's parent company, Griffin Land and Nurseries, declined to comment on
Monday.

In February, Griffin said the workers were hired by Pro Tree, an independent
labor contractor that Imperial had retained. Griffin said it cooperated with an
investigation by the Labor Department.

''The D.O.L. later advised Imperial that they were satisfied over the Pro Tree
workers' living conditions and transportation and found no basis for the human
trafficking allegations,'' the company said.

Labor officials did advise Imperial that some Pro Tree employees were not being
paid the legally required wage. Imperial terminated its contract with Pro Tree
on June 30, the company said.

A phone message was left for William L. Forero-Rozo, Pro Tree's owner, who did
not respond.

The workers say in their suit that they were afraid to talk freely to labor
investigators because of the threats of deportation and arrest.

Imperial's sales volume places it among the 20 largest landscape nursery growers
in the country, according to the suit.

The workers were paid about $3.75 an hour but also incurred substantial, illegal
deductions that further reduced their wages, according to their suit. The
workers also incurred substantial debts in Guatemala to pay for their visas and
the trip to the United States, according to the suit.

Some of the workers flew to North Carolina, and were then taken to Hartford in a
small van. When they arrived, they were housed in filthy apartments, according
to the suit.

The work involved preparing flowers, trees, shrubs and other plants for sale to
residential and wholesale customers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Parsing the Truths About Visas for Tech Workers

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Anand Giridharadas contributed reporting from Mumbai,
India.

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1164 words


THE United States has benefited immensely from its role as a magnet for the best
and brightest workers from around the world, especially in innovative fields
like high technology. Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, sounded precisely
that theme in Senate testimony last month when asked about the visa program for
skilled workers, the H-1B.

Mr. Gates said that these workers are ''uniquely talented'' and highly paid --
''taking jobs that pay over $100,000 a year'' -- and that America should
''welcome as many of those people as we can get.''

But that is not how the H-1B visa program as a whole is working these days,
according to an analysis by Ronil Hira, an assistant professor of public policy
at the Rochester Institute of Technology. The median salary for new H-1B holders
in the information technology industry is actually about $50,000, based on the
most recent data filed by companies with the United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services agency. That wage level, Mr. Hira says, is the same as
starting salaries for graduating computer science majors with bachelor's
degrees.

Yet salaries, according to Mr. Hira, are only part of the story. He says that
while Microsoft may be paying its H-1B visa holders well and recruiting people
with hard-to-find talents, other companies have a different agenda. The H-1B
visa program, Mr. Hira asserts, has become a vehicle for accelerating the pace
of offshore outsourcing of computing work, sending more jobs abroad. Holders of
H-1B visas, he says, do the on-site work of understanding a client's needs and
specifications -- and then most of the software coding is done back in India.

''Information technology offshore outsourcing has just swamped the H-1B program
in recent years,'' he said. The list of the top 10 companies requesting H-1B
visas in fiscal 2006, the most recent government data available, was dominated
by Indian-based technology outsourcing companies like Infosys Technologies,
Wipro Technologies and Tata Consultancy Services, and a few other companies that
offer outsourced services and have sizable operations in India like Cognizant
Technology Solutions, Accenture and Deloitte & Touche, according to a paper last
month by Mr. Hira, which was published by the Economic Policy Institute, a
liberal research group.

Over the years, the H-1B visa, which allows a person to work in the United
States for three years and can be renewed for an additional three, has been used
by many people as a steppingstone to becoming a permanent resident.
Traditionally, about half of all H-1B holders eventually get green cards,
immigration experts say.

Yet the major outsourcing companies, while seeking thousands of H-1B visas, are
asking for relative handfuls of green cards, according to government figures.

The statistics marshaled by Mr. Hira are not absolutely conclusive. The reported
company-by-company numbers are for H-1B visas requested, not granted, but that
is because the government does not publish visa counts by company. Since the
visas are granted on a first-come-first-served basis, it seems reasonable that
the companies seeking the most visas would, proportionately, get the most.

It is not just critics like Mr. Hira who point to the crucial role that the H-1B
visa program plays in the fast-growing global outsourcing industry. ''It has
become the outsourcing visa,'' said Kamal Nath, the commerce minister of India.

But is that a bad thing? Many economists say that paving the way for more
efficient global trade in technology services should be a policy goal, and that
the American economy will be more competitive and create more jobs as a result.
Technology services like software programming and maintenance, they say, are an
''input,'' in economic terms, in industries from banking to manufacturing.

It used to be that all the parts in a car or a computer were made in a single
country; now they are manufactured wherever it is most efficient. The same thing
is happening in technology services. ''We're seeing this growing international
division of labor in services just as we saw in manufacturing decades ago,''
said Aaditya Mattoo, an economist at the World Bank.

Still, the issue behind the H-1B controversy is how a nation devises a policy to
benefit from global trade in technology services while treating its own workers
fairly. The proposals before Congress range from significantly expanding the
visa quota to tightening rules to protect American workers.

This month, the government announced that it had received more petitions for
H-1B visas in one day than it could grant in the entire fiscal year that begins
in October. It received 150,000 petitions; the current visa cap is 65,000.
Technology lobbying groups declared that the immediate overflow demand for H-1B
visas was proof of the skills shortage in the United States and the need for a
sharply higher visa limit. But some immigration policy experts and economists
say that this argument fails a simple test of economics. It is not surprising,
they say, that global companies -- including I.B.M., Microsoft and Oracle --
that benefit from the H-1B program would like to see it enlarged. ''There is no
labor market test, using technically sound criteria, to determine whether or not
there is a shortage,'' said David M. Hart, an associate professor of public
policy at George Mason University. The measures, Mr. Hart suggests, would
include recent wage trends and unemployment rates in specific professions.

Other suggested changes include phasing out caps but holding auctions for H-1B
visas in, say, lots of 30,000. After the first auction, the bidding for the next
batch would begin at the high end of the initial sale's prices. In 1994, a
commission appointed by Congress recommended letting companies hire skilled
foreign workers easily if the employers paid a $10,000-a-person fee that would
go into a fund to train domestic workers. And there might be a limit on the
number of visas that any one company can get.

''How to match policies to people in this emerging global labor market is
something we really haven't thought through yet,'' said B. Lindsay Lowell,
director of policy studies at the Institute for the Study of International
Migration at Georgetown University. The current system, he said, tends to depend
too much on the companies and how they use the complicated work-visa program.

Microsoft, it seems, is paying its H-1B holders quite well -- a median salary of
$82,500 for new visa applicants, whose wages over the subsequent three to six
years could well rise to about the $100,000 Mr. Gates mentioned. And in fiscal
2006, Microsoft applied for 1,181 green cards and 4,471 H-1B's, a ratio of more
than 26 percent. For the leading Indian outsourcing companies, the ratio was
less than 1 percent.

''Microsoft may well be using the program to bring in the best and the
brightest,'' Mr. Hira said. ''But it's definitely not representative of how the
H-1B program is being used today.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Employees at the training center of Infosys Technologies in
Mysore, India. Infosys and others that specialize in outsourcing top the list of
companies requesting H-1B visas. (Photo by Aijaz Rahi/Associated Press)
 Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, told Congress last month that having
more visas for skilled workers would increase American competitiveness. (Photo
by Shawn Thew/European Pressphoto Agency)  Chart: ''Looking to India'' Companies
that specialize in offshore outsourcing of technology work to India have the
most requests for skilled-worker visas in the United States.  COMPANIES WITH THE
MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES IN 2006: Infosys Technologies H-1B POSITIONS REQUESTED:
22,590  COMPANIES WITH THE MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES IN 2006: Wipro Technologies H-1B
POSITIONS REQUESTED: 19,450  COMPANIES WITH THE MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES IN 2006:
Cognizant Technology Solutions H-1B POSITIONS REQUESTED: 11,330  COMPANIES WITH
THE MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES IN 2006: Patni Computer Systems H-1B POSITIONS
REQUESTED: 9,922  COMPANIES WITH THE MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES IN 2006: MphasiS* H-1B
POSITIONS REQUESTED: 9,908  COMPANIES WITH THE MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES IN 2006: HCL
America H-1B POSITIONS REQUESTED: 9,128  COMPANIES WITH THE MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES
IN 2006: Deloitte & Touche H-1B POSITIONS REQUESTED: 8,367  COMPANIES WITH THE
MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES IN 2006: Tata Consultancy Services H-1B POSITIONS REQUESTED:
7,528  COMPANIES WITH THE MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES IN 2006: Accenture H-1B POSITIONS
REQUESTED: 7,253  COMPANIES WITH THE MOST H-1B EMPLOYEES IN 2006: Satyam
Computer Services H-1B POSITIONS REQUESTED: 7,235  *Now a subsidiary of
Electronic Data Systems  (Source by Department of Labor)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 17, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Talk Radio Wavers, Bush Moves to Firm Up Support

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1243 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16


On an overcast Friday morning last month, White House aides ushered an
influential group of conservative radio hosts into the Oval Office for a private
audience with the president.

For an hour and a half, Mr. Bush discussed his case for the war in Iraq, his
immigration proposals and even the personality of his Scottish terrier Barney,
who scratched on the door during the session until the president relented and
let him into the office, according to several hosts who attended.

The meeting, which was not announced on the president's public schedule, was
part of an intensive Republican Party campaign to reclaim and re-energize a
crucial army of supporters that is not as likely to walk in lockstep with the
White House as it has in the past.

Conservative radio hosts are breaking with the Republican leadership in ways not
seen in at least a decade, and certainly not since Rush Limbaugh's forceful
advocacy of the party in 1994 spawned a new generation of stars, said Michael
Harrison, publisher of the industry's lead trade publication, Talkers.

Disgruntlement can now be found not only among the more flamboyant radio voices,
like Michael Savage, who raged against Mr. Bush's proposals on immigration and
other issues, but also among more mainstream hosts, like Laura Ingraham, who
told her listeners in the wake of the scandal involving former Representative
Mark Foley and under-age Congressional pages, ''You have to ask yourself, the
people who are in positions of power now in the Republican Party, are they able
to credibly articulate the conservative agenda to the American people -- to
rally the base, to rally the country?''

Such questions, coming from such quarters, have created yet another challenge
for the White House and the central party leadership as they work to steer
Republicans to victory next month in the face of low approval ratings and
dissatisfaction among the party faithful.

Strategists on both sides agree that the party's greatest hope for holding
control of Congress now rests with its ability to get core Republicans to vote,
and that talk radio, which reaches millions of them, is crucial to the task.

Democratic strategists say talk radio remains a fearsome Republican advocacy
force for which they have little direct answer. (Air America, which features
liberal hosts, including Al Franken, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy last week.)
The top two rated conservative hosts, Mr. Limbaugh and Sean Hannity, have done
more than their part to rally their listeners this year, especially during the
Foley scandal, to the great relief of Republican Party officials. And even those
critical of Mr. Bush or the party on specific issues still consider themselves
major supporters in general, with perhaps the exception of Mr. Savage.

But Mr. Savage is the third most popular host in the nation, with at least eight
million listeners weekly, according to Talkers. And the Democrats have watched
happily as he and others have at times sent reverberations of conservative
frustration into what they often call the ''Republican echo chamber.''

The challenge now falls to party strategists to persuade the hosts to overcome
the frustrations of many hard-core listeners over issues like spending and
border security without alienating them.

''When conservatives are agitated at the president, radio hosts feel pressured
to stand with the conservatives against the president to prove their
independence,'' said Tim Graham, an analyst at the Media Research Center, a
conservative news monitoring group. But, Mr. Graham said, ''realizing what life
would be like if we lost the House is concentrating people's minds.''

The White House and the Republican National Committee are hammering home that
point in interviews, talking-point bulletins and a healthy dollop of pomp that
only a White House can provide.

The effort will peak on Oct. 24, when the administration will hold something of
a talk-radio summit meeting, inviting dozens of hosts to set up booths on the
White House grounds, where top cabinet officials are expected to sit for
interviews.

The party chairman, Ken Mehlman, has already been working overtime on the talk
radio circuit. From Wednesday to Friday of last week, he was interviewed a total
of 20 times in Missouri, Tennessee and Ohio, promoting party stances on tax cuts
and terrorism.

But, several hosts said, the most telling development so far this year was the
White House decision to invite some of the most popular hosts to the Oval Office
for off-the-record time with the president.

Kevin Sullivan, the White House communications director, said the meeting was
among the latest examples of the administration's effort to put Mr. Bush in
front of more news media as his own best spokesman. The president also gave
interviews recently to several television anchors and held an Oval Office chat
with a group of conservative writers.

And Mr. Bush granted an on-camera interview to Bill O'Reilly of the Fox News
Channel. The first of three parts ran Monday night.

Still, officials said, the meeting with the radio hosts gave Mr. Bush a chance
to speak intimately with a group that reaches an overwhelmingly Republican
audience of 30 million people per week.

''You want to make sure that your friends are friendly,'' said Tony Snow, the
White House press secretary, who has been crucial to the effort and who was a
conservative radio host who turned harshly critical of Mr. Bush just months
before he went to work for him last spring.

Mr. Snow said that while ''any party has its disagreements,'' there was little
division among Republicans on the top two issues Mr. Bush has tried to push this
year: terrorism and taxes.

And the fight against terrorism dominated the discussion at the meeting.

''This was clearly, clearly an effort to kind of rally the troops when the
troops need rallying,'' said Mike Gallagher, who attended the meeting and whose
daily program reaches at least 3.75 million people each week. ''They know that
we've got an audience of people who may or may not be on the political fence
right now.''

Mr. Gallagher said that he and the other hosts -- Mr. Hannity, Ms. Ingraham,
Neal Boortz and Michael Medved -- talked about the experience on their programs
''for days and days and days.''

(Mr. Limbaugh said that he met with Mr. Bush and Karl Rove, the president's
chief strategist, in the Oval Office in June, but generally tried to keep his
distance to maintain independence.)

On his Web site, Mr. Medved wrote how Mr. Bush spoke about his commitment to his
immigration plan in terms of the fight against terrorism. He said the president
made a case that if he were to give in to conservative complaints, ''the
nation's enemies (and the rest of the world) would take away the belief that the
president could be bullied, prodded, overwhelmed and intimidated.''

Mr. Hannity said of the meeting, ''I think he'd have an 80 percent approval
rating if he could bring people into the Oval Office six people at a time and
explain it all to them.''

But Ms. Ingraham, who recently went bike riding with the president, has
continued to complain about federal spending, progress in Iraq and, lately, the
Republican leadership's handling of the Foley scandal. Ms. Ingraham likened
herself to a sports fan who nonetheless has occasional criticism of the coach.
But, she said pointedly on her show: ''I am not an advocate for the G.O.P. I'm
an advocate for conservative ideas.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush discussed his policies with conservative radio
hosts last month at the White House, including, from left, Mike Gallagher, Neal
Boortz, Laura Ingraham, Sean Hannity and Michael Medved. (White House photo by
Eric Draper)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 20, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's Voter-Fooling Time in America

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 502 words


The homestretch of the campaign season historically puts treacherous distortions
of the truth before the voters, none more so this year than a mysterious
California letter informing thousands of Latino-Americans that immigrants have
no right to vote. ''You are advised,'' begins the Spanish-language letter,
dripping with authority, that if ''you're an immigrant, voting in a federal
election is a crime that can result in incarceration.'' It now appears that
someone in a Republican Congressional campaign conjured a contemporary spin on a
classic scare tactic from torchlight politics.

Comparable outrages surface daily now, with an ad for black voters in six states
misrepresenting the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s politics in a staged chat
between two black women: ''Dr. King was a real man,'' says one actress. ''You
know he was a Republican,'' the other chimes in.

Democrats are no less tempted to flash bare-knuckle mischief. In a prime
example, Representative Nancy Johnson, a Connecticut Republican, is being
portrayed by Chris Murphy, the Democrat, as heartlessly unresponsive to a woman
whose child needed insurance coverage for a cleft lip and palate. Of course, Ms.
Johnson has represented Mr. Murphy as being opposed to the surveillance of
terrorists.

So it goes, with some ethically challenged spinners creating false news
clippings and tucking them knifelike into campaign videos of real stories. Even
Lincoln is being falsely quoted by defenders of the Iraq war. The 16th president
never said that Congressional critics who damage wartime morale ''should be
arrested, exiled or hanged.''

One of the more widespread canards is rooted in the divisive and fruitless
immigration debate. Democrats in more than two dozen races are being falsely
accused of wanting to give Social Security benefits to illegal immigrants -- a
distortion of a proposal to actually block immigrants from being credited for
benefit days worked before they had legal status. One Web site coated with
obvious racism and xenophobia is MuchasGraciasDebbie.com, which skewers Senator
Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, dressing her digitally in a sombrero,
grinning and declaring, ''No problema!''

What to do, beyond celebrating the continuing pungency of free speech across the
nation? The most obvious answer is that voters need to pay ever closer attention
to what the candidates say in this world of mixed media and mixed messages. The
Internet is a powerful ally.

The head of Google, Eric Schmidt, is cautioning politicians stuck in the
sound-bite era that ''truth predictor'' software is in the works so that
computer-wise voters will be instantaneously able to check on the probability,
if not the certainty, of what candidates claim as fact. Actually, careful
parsing of egregiously misleading campaign ads is already available on the Web
at factcheck.org, a nonprofit service that thinks voters should be treated as
intelligent consumers entitled to the plain facts. If only the candidates saw it
that way.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 19, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Outgoing Chief Warns G.O.P. On Outlook For 2008 Races

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18


Ken Mehlman, the departing chairman of the Republican National Committee, warned
on Thursday that his party would suffer even more devastating losses in 2008
than it did in 2006 if it did not reach out to minorities and address voter
concerns about ethics.

In his farewell speech after two years as chairman, Mr. Mehlman said that the
2006 elections, in which Republicans lost control of both houses of Congress,
was not a fluke that could be attributed to the calendar, a few scandal-tainted
candidates and the tough going in Iraq.

''Each of these factors combined to create an environment that was unfavorable
for Republicans,'' said Mr. Mehlman, one of the chief architects of President
Bush's two national election victories. ''But, folks, these factors cannot be an
excuse.''

He said that if Republican officials shrugged off the repudiation of the party
in the 2006 elections they would lose the White House in 2008 and remain in the
minority in Congress indefinitely. He said the party had to recommit itself to
political reform, fiscal restraint and personal ethics.

Mr. Mehlman addressed the roughly 170 members of the Republican National
Committee at their annual winter meeting, a rather glum affair at a downtown
hotel here. Party members are still nursing the wounds of the mid-term elections
and are riven by divisions over Iraq, immigration and other issues. Members are
also beginning to take sides in the contest for the Republican presidential
nomination in 2008.

On Friday, committee members are expected to ratify Mr. Bush's selection of
Senator Mel Martinez of Florida as the party's new general chairman. Mr.
Martinez, who emigrated from Cuba as a child, will be the public face and voice
of the party as it tries to reach out to Hispanics and other minorities who have
abandoned the party in large numbers in recent years.

Mr. Martinez is expected to win the job by a large margin, but a handful of
dissidents plan to vote against him because of his support for liberalized
immigration laws.

One Martinez opponent, Randall Pullen, Republican national committeeman from
Arizona, said that illegal immigration was the biggest problem in Arizona ''and
it's not getting any better.''

''It's such a huge issue and his past votes are not to the liking of Arizonans
in general and the state party, for sure,'' Mr. Pullen said.

But he said he did not think more than a few national party officials would defy
the president and vote against Mr. Martinez.

Mr. Martinez, who appeared at the meeting briefly Thursday morning before
returning to the Capitol, said he believed that one of his chief jobs as general
chairman would be to try to reconnect with Latino voters, whose support for the
Republicans dropped to 29 percent in 2006 from 44 percent in 2004, in large part
because many Republican candidates ran explicitly anti-immigrant campaigns.

''The president, in naming me to this position, was saying we need to speak with
a voice that speaks to all Americans,'' Mr. Martinez said. ''My job is to make
clear that our door is open and we're reaching out to all Americans, speaking to
their hopes and aspirations and dreams.''

Robert M. Duncan, a longtime Republican lawyer and operative, is expected to be
elected the party's chairman, responsible for day-to-day business.

Ed Gillespie, a former Republican Party chairman, attended in his capacity as
the new Virginia state party chairman. He acknowledged that the last two months
had been painful for the party.

''Fortunately,'' Mr. Gillespie said, ''there are 12 months in a year.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 17, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Law on Overseas Brides Is Keeping Couples Apart

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1295 words

DATELINE: PALM COAST, Fla.


Adam Weaver thought everything was set to bring his Colombian fiancee, Yesenia
Meza, to the United States.

But Mr. Weaver did not count on being hindered by a Congressional effort
intended to protect women from potential abuse by American men who seek brides
from other countries on the Internet. In June, the federal immigration service
froze 10,000 visa applications for foreign fiancees because they did not conform
with a law that went into effect in March.

Mr. Weaver and Ms. Meza, who were expecting to be together here by now, were
caught in the net.

''Smuggling a ton of cocaine into this country,'' Mr. Weaver fumed, ''is
probably easier than bringing your fiancee.''

The law, known as the International Marriage Broker Regulation Act, or Imbra, is
intended to give foreign women and the American government more information
about the men who seek so-called mail-order brides.

''This is an unequal partnership where you have somebody dependent on somebody
else in a profound way,'' said Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, who
was a leading sponsor of the law. ''It puts women at a significant disadvantage,
in a potentially violent situation.''

Reports of violence in international marriages, some of them Internet matches,
have increased in recent years. In 1998, fewer than 2,500 foreign women applied
to become permanent residents under the Violence Against Women Act, which allows
abused wives to apply for residence without the support of their husbands. In
the fiscal year that ended in September, 9,500 applied.

The new law has angered many men, who argue that there is no definitive evidence
that violence is more likely to take place in an international marriage arranged
over the Internet than in a domestic one. Unwilling or unable to find a spouse
in the United States, some worry that the law could make it more difficult to
find a wife abroad.

''We should have the right to correspond with, date and marry the person of our
choosing,'' said David Root, who has been involved with many women from the
former Soviet Union in the past decade but has not married any of them. ''The
government shouldn't interfere in this.''

Helped by the Internet, international matchmaking has mushroomed. In 1999, a
report by the immigration service found some 200 international dating agencies
in the United States. A study in 2004 found 500.

The immigration service said 37,500 women entered the country last year on
fiancee visas or temporary visas for spouses of American citizens. That was a 50
percent increase from 2002, when the temporary spouse visa came into existence,
and a fourfold increase over the 9,500 women who entered on fiancee visas in
1998. Estimates based on the 1999 government report suggested that one-third to
one-half of these visas were for women who had met their American partners
through matchmaking brokers.

Under Imbra, dating agencies that specialize in matching American men with women
overseas must first obtain information about a man's criminal record and marital
history, relay it to the woman and then get her consent before disclosing her
contact information. Men must also provide this information to the government
when applying for a fiancee visa. Generally, applicants have a lifetime visa
limit of two foreign fiancees.

Web sites offer men in affluent countries contacts with women from just about
everywhere in the developing world; Brazil, Colombia, the Philippines, Russia,
Ukraine and Vietnam are among the most popular countries.

The businesses vary in their approaches. Russianladies.com, owned by European
Connections, based in Georgia, charges men for membership and requires a fee for
sending and receiving e-mail messages. Two others, A Foreign Affair and Filipina
Ladies, organize trips to places like Bangkok, where a dozen men may meet
several hundred women.

''It all started with women's lib,'' said Sam Smith, a former salesman of
insurance and mutual funds, who founded I Love Latins in Houston six years ago.
''Guys are sick and tired of the North American me, me, me attitude.' ''

Mr. Smith and others in the industry said most clients were middle-aged and
middle-class, and able to spend several thousand dollars courting a woman
overseas. Seventy percent of Mr. Smith's clients are divorced, he said.

Mr. Weaver, a 40-year-old construction manager, had almost given up on dating
after a two-year marriage and a strained six-year relationship with a mother of
three, which ended when she left him ''for a younger man who liked to dance.''

At his age, Mr. Weaver figured, the only American women who would be interested
in him would be divorced, with a former husband and children in the background.
''Been there, done that, not going back again,'' he said.

Moreover, he said, American women are self-centered, competitive and too
critical. ''I would prefer a more old-fashioned girl,'' he said.

Last year, he found Ms. Meza, a Colombian 17 years his junior, on the I Love
Latins Web site. ''Her profile,'' he wrote in an e-mail message, ''was one of
the only ones that said, 'I want to know a man who knows about God.' ''

Mr. Weaver bought Ms. Meza a computer, a digital camera and a high-speed
connection so they could talk every day by Internet phone. He sends her money on
occasion, paying for her English and driving lessons. In September, he visited
Ms. Meza in Colombia for the third time.

''My relationship with Yesenia,'' he said, ''is real and more valid than
anything I ever had in my life.''

Ms. Meza also says she is eager to start her life with Mr. Weaver. ''In Colombia
most men are womanizers and want to dominate women,'' she said in a telephone
interview. ''I want a loving man who will treat me like a queen.''

So far, however, they have not cleared immigration. A spokesman for the
immigration service said that most of the backlogged visa applications frozen in
June had been processed.

''Innocent people are being punished by a law aimed at the misdeeds of a few,''
Mr. Weaver said. The only time he was ever involved in a violent episode, he
said, was a barroom brawl some 20 years ago.

Supporters of the law insist they are not trying to stop marriages between
American men and foreign women but say the women should be informed about what
they are getting into.

Seeking a woman on some matchmaking sites is not unlike shopping at Amazon.com.
The sites often allow men to search for women by age, weight, height, religion
and command of English, among other characteristics. And they frequently market
the women as untouched by modern American culture.

Russianladies.com states, ''Russian ladies are traditional, unpretentious,
down-to-earth, and their views of relationships have not been ruined by
unreasonable expectations.'' BarranquillasBest.com offers tips on how to prevent
foreign brides from becoming ''Americanized.''

Randall Miller, a lawyer in Washington who has represented abused women, said
such depictions were an invitation to violence.

''The guy doesn't have to be a predator,'' Mr. Miller said. ''He wants to be the
king of the house and buys into the promotional claim that he can get a more
traditional woman in Russia -- she will cook dinner and have sex and otherwise
shut up. And he is taken aback when the woman is outspoken and has opinions and
wants to get a job.''

Two matchmaking companies have sought to block the law in court.

Mr. Weaver, for all his exasperation over the wait, acknowledges that providing
the extra information required by the law may be warranted. So does Ms. Meza.
But they do not see why they should have to suffer in the meantime.

''If men are investigated it will be good for all women,'' Ms. Meza said. ''But
when you are in love and want to go there, you get desperate.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adam Weaver met his Colombian fiancee, Yesenia Meza, over the
Internet last year, but his application for a visa to bring her to the United
States has been held up. For now, they talk every day by Internet phone. (Photo
by Adam Weaver)
 (Photo by Oscar Sosa for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Green Was My Rally

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; The City Life; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 584 words


To roars and applause and whistles so loud and shrill they stabbed the ears even
more than his double-bagpipe escort, Senator Charles Schumer swept into the
packed church auditorium, levitating on a cloud of affection. For another
entrance as grand, you'd probably have to go back to Groucho Marx in ''Animal
Crackers,'' borne in on a litter by bare-chested natives and multiple choruses
of ''Hooray for Captain Spaulding.''

This happy moment was a rally by Irish immigrants the other night at St.
Barnabas Church in the Woodlawn section of the Bronx. Mr. Schumer wore a green
tie and that grin of his, so wide you could drive on it from Galway to Dublin.
He was there to announce the miraculous rebirth of immigration reform, courtesy
of the new Democratic Congress. But first he did what politicians always do
before a throng of happy Hibernians. After a few courteous preliminaries and a
line from St. Matthew's Gospel, he committed Irish identity theft.

''My sister's name,'' he let slip in a lusty roar, ''is Fran  Schumer
McNULTY!''

Cheers and more cheers.

''Up Mayo!'' the senator cried. ''Up Leitrim!''

He was just getting started. He introduced an aide, the one who named his
daughters Siobhan, Fiona, Maeve and Nora. The love spilled over, like foam on a
Guinness.

''The more Irish there are in America, the better we all are!'' Mr. Schumer
declared, repeating a line he had caught some flak about a few months before.
Some non-Irish immigrants had grumbled about how unlikely it would be to hear
another group's name tucked into that equation. They had a point about ethnic
favoritism, though Mr. Schumer, who sweet-talks everybody, was perhaps not the
best example of it.

Mr. Schumer's final bit of stagecraft was in Gaelic. ''Tiocfaidh ar la!'' he
bellowed. It means ''our day will come'' and is pronounced, to the senator's
evident gratitude, ''Chucky-AR-LA.'' With that he tied the ribbon on the gift
wrap of his speech. The wave of cheers crested and fell, and Mr. Schumer
departed into the windy night.

It's now a regular thing for big-ticket politicians to go to Woodlawn, where the
Irish pubs and delis have been struggling as people go back home to ride the
Celtic Tiger, as Ireland's resurgent economy is known. With Irish-American
neighborhoods in decline, Irish illegal immigrants have rallied urgently to the
cause of friendlier immigration laws. They are a drop of 50,000 in a bucket of
12 million illegal immigrants, but as Mr. Schumer's special blessing showed,
they command attention.

He is far from the only politician to be drawn to the white, English-speaking
sliver of the immigration problem. That fondness for Irish audiences helps
reinforce the odd sense of solipsism surrounding the Irish immigrant lobby. When
you hear the chairman of the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform, Niall O'Dowd,
vow to fight ''to get what is rightfully ours'' -- more visas for the Irish --
you can't help wondering how quickly such words would get a Latino banished to
the militant fringe.

''We Are America'' is the Latinos' and Asians' cry. The well-organized Irish
don't feel the need to say that. Their slogan, on T-shirts and the Irish Lobby's
Web site, is blunt: ''Legalize the Irish.''

The Irish have a just cause, but I only wish they and their many friends would
preach the gospel of immigration reform in a bigger tent. It is, after all,
every immigrant group's fate to start out in this country unloved, as the Irish
are only too eager to remind us.   LAWRENCE DOWNES

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 23, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Watching the Exits

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 517 words


In 1996, Congress ordered immigration officials to create a system to track
everyone who enters the country and everyone who leaves. That sensible directive
lay on a back burner until 9/11. The Department of Homeland Security then
hastened to set up the U.S. Visit program, which requires people to be
photographed and fingerprinted at ports of entry for checking against databases
of terrorists and other undesirables.

That system has been running since 2004, and has plucked hundreds of bad people
from the huge visitor stream without horribly disrupting tourism and business
travel. But news came last week that the other half of the program -- monitoring
foreign travelers when they leave -- has been abandoned.

The Homeland Security Department had hoped to begin tracking departures at the
50 busiest land border crossings by next December. But it has given up meeting
that deadline after deciding that the cost -- including time lost in long lines
at the borders -- would be prohibitive. Part of the problem is technological:
tracking methods that would work are too expensive.

The Government Accountability Office, echoing the Bush administration's
conclusions, said that a cost-effective departure system may not emerge for five
to 10 years. And so, after spending $1.7 billion since 2003 on the U.S. Visit
program, the administration will keep doing what it has been doing at the
nation's land exits, which is basically nothing.

It's good to know who's leaving the country -- and who isn't. About a third of
illegal immigrants are believed to be those who entered lawfully but stayed
after their visas expired. Some of the 9/11 hijackers were in this group.
Hunting such people down is not even theoretically possible until you know whom
you are looking for.

There are a few lessons in this downbeat development. One is simply a reminder
that faith in technology is easily misplaced. Border security is a paradoxical
mission -- maximizing the steady, efficient flow of tourists, students and
seasonal workers while admitting exactly zero terrorists and visa-defying
illegal immigrants. All this while respecting everyone's privacy and not
spending too much money. There may be a technological fix that will solve all
these problems cheaply, but we could grow old and poor waiting for it.

Another is that the same people who make lofty arguments for things like sealed
borders tend to disappear when the discussion gets down to the nitty-gritty of
trade-offs and acceptable costs. Washington has tons of people who want to keep
out terrorists and illegal immigrants, but far fewer who want to commit the time
and money to a realistic discussion of how to do that. The Bush administration
says that keeping Americans safe at home is the overriding mission of our time.
But it has allowed distractions to get in the way, like invading Iraq, cutting
taxes for rich people and minimizing disruptions to everyday life for everyone
not in the military. This administration keeps reminding us of the high price we
all must pay for homeland security, but it always blanches when the bills
arrive.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 27, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Small Businesses Fight Fickle Rules

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words


In 1995, Joseph N. Cooper won a multiyear contract worth up to $8 million to do
public relations for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He received the
contract through a Small Business Administration program established to increase
opportunities for small companies.

But not long after the work was under way, the deal was awarded instead to three
multimillion-dollar companies, which were listed as disadvantaged in contract
documents. After years of trying to win the contract back, Mr. Cooper filed a
false-claims lawsuit against the companies, asserting that they had committed
fraud by saying they were small businesses.

This year, to Mr. Cooper and his lawyer's surprise, the court ruled that
although evidence showed the companies were indeed not small businesses, fraud
had not been committed because the I.N.S. knew their true status when the work
was awarded to the companies -- J. Walter Thompson, the Bernard Hodes Group and
Cass Communications.

The case was dismissed.

''We were floored,'' Mr. Cooper said in an interview. ''The ruling essentially
said that I was right, the companies were not small, but so what.''

That experience points to the kind of Catch-22 world that some small-business
owners face when they challenge the awarding of government contracts.

Many studies have shown that hundreds of government contracts set aside for
small business are being awarded to large corporations. Federal laws provide
several mechanisms that allow small-business owners who suspect that contracts
have been awarded to large companies to protest.

But small-business owners say that the rules in many cases impose nearly
impossible standards on them. Even if they do succeed in protesting an award,
they say, and prove that federal agencies are intentionally awarding
small-business contracts to big companies, there are almost no penalties. Often,
the large companies get to keep the contacts.

''It's a hollow victory,'' said Raul Espinosa, a small-business owner in Florida
who has won several protests. ''You might win the size protest, but you can't
claim the contract because the agency allowed delivery to take place and what's
worse, the penalties for the violations aren't enforced.''

Mr. Espinosa is leading a coalition of six small-business associations seeking
to change the process.

Congress may be more receptive to their calls for change next year, when two
longtime critics of the practice assume leadership positions for the committees
overseeing small business.

Senator John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and the incoming chairman of
the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, has proposed giving the
S.B.A. more time to complete size determinations and to help prevent big
businesses from slipping under the radar of a bureaucratic contracting process.

The S.B.A. recently required businesses to report their size every five years.
Mr. Kerry's proposal would make the reports annual.

''The protest process is supposed to keep the system honest, but what's the
point of protesting a contract if nothing happens?'' Senator Kerry said

Nydia M. Velazquez, Democrat of New York and the incoming chairwoman of the
House Small Business Committee, said she would work to rectify the problems
faced by Mr. Cooper and other small businesses by ensuring that there is an
effective protest system in place. She also wants to make sure that penalties
are enforced.

''The fact that large businesses are being awarded with small-business
contracts, and that there is no system in place with penalties or consequences
for this, is extremely concerning,'' Ms. Velazquez said.

If a small-business owner believes that a company has been illegally awarded a
small-business contract the owner has several options in protesting the award.

The first is to file a so-called size protest with the S.B.A., asserting that
the competitor is too big.

Under this process, a company has five days after being notified of a winning
bidder to initiate the protest. If the agency decides that the winning company
is not small, it can recommend that the contract be rescinded.

But that almost never happens, Mr. Espinosa says.

Last year, Mr. Espinosa protested an Air Force contract, offering documentation
showing that the winning company was actually a subsidiary of a larger concern,
and thus ineligible.

At first, the S.B.A. ruled that the company was a small business, but Mr.
Espinosa appealed the decision to the agency's Office of Hearings and Appeals
and an administrative law judge ruled in his favor. Despite the ruling, the
winner kept the contract.

''There needs to be some reform in the size protest system,'' Mr. Espinosa said.
''Otherwise, why should small-business owners bother and why would large
companies worry about getting caught?''

The S.B.A. said it could only recommend that contracts be rescinded and could
not compel other agencies to follow the recommendation.

Albert B. Krachman, a lawyer at the firm of Blank Rome in Washington, who has
represented small businesses, said, ''The system is basically set up in such a
way that the policing is left up to the businesses themselves.''

What's more, he said, ''There is no incentive from the contracting officers or
other government officials to see if the companies they are giving small
business set-asides to are indeed small-business concerns.''

Gary M. Jackson, assistant administrator for size standards at the S.B.A.,
agrees that the policing of the small-business contracting system is left up to
competitors, but asserts that they are in a better position than contracting
officers to know which is a small business and which is not.

Another remedy for small businesses is through the courts.

As Mr. Cooper did, small-business owners can file lawsuits asserting that fraud
was committed in the awarding of set-aside contracts to large businesses. But
legal specialists say the filing false-claims lawsuits can be a costly
undertaking. The law also contains several legal hurdles that make it almost
impossible to win, they say.

Mr. Cooper said that he was convinced that a lawsuit was his only hope.

At first, Mr. Cooper and his lawyer argued in the Court of Federal Claims that
the I.N.S. had not operated in good faith when it stopped giving him work on the
contract.

The I.N.S. said it was not satisfied with Mr. Cooper's work and the cost
associated with it. But in a deposition, a contacting officer at the agency said
no evidence was ever offered to him questioning the quality of Mr. Cooper's
work. A government audit found that the cost was actually reasonable.

Still, the court sided with the I.N.S. and said that because the agency had
given Mr. Cooper the minimum amount on the contract there was no evidence the
agency had not operated in good faith. Mr. Cooper appealed the ruling, but an
appeals court upheld the lower court ruling.

Mr. Cooper and his lawyer then filed a lawsuit in the Federal District Court for
the District of Columbia. They argued that the two companies that had been
awarded contracts to complete the work that Mr. Cooper's firm had originally
been awarded had committed fraud when they said that they were disadvantaged
businesses.

A lawyer for the companies, Bruce M. Ginsberg of the law firm of Davis and
Gilbert in New York, denies that they ever misstated their size to the I.N.S.
''These are multimillion-dollar companies,'' Mr. Ginsberg said. ''They would not
represent themselves as small businesses. We have no idea how they came to be
marked that way in the I.N.S. documents.''

Among the evidence offered by Mr. Cooper were contract documents in which the
companies were described as disadvantagedand a Justice Department investigative
report showing that the companies had verbally confirmed their disadvantaged
status with an officer at the I.N.S., though both companies were two of the
largest advertising firms in the country.

''We thought we had a slam-dunk,'' said Cyrus Phillips, a lawyer doing pro bono
work for Mr. Cooper.

But when the judge ruled otherwise, he not only dismissed the case but also
ordered Mr. Cooper to pay legal fees and other expenses to the companies he had
sued.

Mr. Cooper said the ruling was a fatal blow to his personal and professional
life. The legal bills he incurred have left him bankrupt and out of work.

''I did nothing wrong and tried to point out that the government was
intentionally giving set-asides to large companies, and I'm the one who pays for
it,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''I wish I'd never done business with the federal
government.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph N. Cooper says his small business was treated unfairly.
(Photo by David Scull for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 27, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Children Shielded From State Tests, but for Whose Protection?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER.

E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION;
Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1338 words

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER, N.Y.


''Put your pencils down!'' Yannyn Suarez commanded her third-grade
English-as-second-language class. ''Eyes on me! Sit up straight!''

She began telling a story about a boy named Kirby who could not find the gym
shoes he needed for the big game. The story ended happily. When Kirby's dog,
Buster, scrambled off his dog bed, there, to Kirby's delight, were the shoes.

The third graders, all from Latino immigrant families though some were born in
the United States, listened with the nervous intentness of children practicing
for the first make-or-break test of their young lives, the New York State
English language arts test. One portion assesses the ability to listen and
remember details without seeing the text, so when the teacher read the story a
second time, the students took notes. But not all notes were of the same
caliber.

Israel Arellano, a squirmy 8-year-old with a crew cut, was able to take polished
notes with just one misspelling:

''Kirby lost his gym shoes and was sad because he had a champinship,'' he wrote
in neat lowercase.

Dayana Ceja, a more earnest 8-year-old with a flawless ponytail, took notes that
were far more disjointed. ''Kirby Shouse Mom Dad Gym,'' she wrote.

School officials in this working-class village tucked between the wealthy towns
of Rye, N.Y., and Greenwich, Conn., would rather that neither Dayana nor Israel,
both of whom were born in the United States, take the English test when it is
given statewide on Jan. 8. They say they do not want such children to be
embarrassed by their scores. But they also do not want those scores to embarrass
the village. Theirs is a district where 90 percent of fourth graders score well
enough to be regarded as proficient readers. That statistic helps the district
attract well-heeled transplants from New York City.

But that statistic is also not a true reflection of the district because so many
students from immigrant homes have been exempted from taking the test, even if
they were born in this country. The district's policy, which state law allows,
has been to spare children from immigrant families from taking the test if they
have been in the school system less than five years. That excludes about 15
percent of Port Chester's elementary school students and 10 percent of
middle-school students. And so those students have been taking easier substitute
tests.

Then last June, the United States Department of Education, enforcing the No
Child Left Behind law, deemed New York's substitutes inadequate and required all
students in school for more than a year to take regular tests. Tests in 21 other
states face have similarly been challenged.

That was bad news for Port Chester. Officials here now predict that when the
January scores are published, the proportion of proficient students will drop
into the 70s. They worry that their schools will be branded in need of
improvement and suffer penalties. They worry that prospective homebuyers may opt
for other towns. And they worry about the students' self-confidence.

''That poor child is going to have to sit through a test that is completely
developmentally inappropriate and feel a sense of anxiety and failure,'' said
Jessica O'Donovan, Port Chester's director of programs for English language
learners.

Those concerns explain why officials here joined with those in Tarrytown,
Ossining and other suburban districts with large immigrant populations to
prevent so-called English language learners like Dayana and Israel from taking
the test. The members of the State Board of Regents were sympathetic.

''For someone who has been in this country a year, the chances of passing are
almost nonexistent so it's destructive of a kid's self-image,'' Harry Phillips
III, a regent, said in an interview.

But the Regents Board members ultimately decided that they could not disobey
federal law. State officials, however, are asking that when federal officials
rate schools, they not count the January test scores of those students who have
been in American schools for less than two years.

THERE are few issues in education more complicated and politically charged than
the education of immigrant children -- whether they should be immersed in
English or placed in more gradual bilingual classes, and whether they should be
tested in the same way as their non-immigrant peers.

There are strong arguments to be made that five years may be too long to exempt
immigrant students from taking mainstream tests but that one year may be too
short. Perhaps someone like Dayana, whose parents speak no English and cannot
help with schoolwork, should be exempted. But perhaps Israel, who has older
siblings fluent in English, should be encouraged to dip into the mainstream, not
just on tests but also in the classes to which he is assigned.

Forcing every immigrant to take a grade-level English test after one year in
this country can be callous. Perhaps a 6- or 7-year-old can slip into a new
language in a year's time, but experts say older children may take years to feel
secure.

Catherine Snow, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education who
specializes in language development, points out that tests given to immigrant
children who enter American schools late, say in middle school, put them at a
particular disadvantage because they do not have the same cultural references as
their classmates.

On the other hand, some educators think younger students from immigrant families
should be given mainstream tests sooner, just as they should be placed in
mainstream classes sooner -- where they can be exposed to more rigorous course
work and fluent English speakers.

''The question is how we use the information,'' said Pedro Noguera, professor of
sociology at Steinhardt School of Education at New York University. ''If we're
going to use it to penalize schools, we're going to create disincentives for
schools to want to serve needy children.'' He worries that schools, fearful of
lower rankings, may discourage some immigrants with from enrolling.

Many schools like to play an exemption game -- removing from the totals the
scores of children who are, say, poor or have learning disabilities. But
postponing tests for immigrant children for five years conceals from parents and
from schools themselves whether students are improving or not.

''Think of this as a parent,'' said Chad Colby a United States Department of
Education spokesman. ''You have a child who starts kindergarten and then they're
still in school at the end of fourth grade, and that's the first time you're
going to be held accountable for an education?''

Like Mr. Noguera, Diane Ravitch, the education historian, says she thinks
testing students after one year may not be a bad idea, but is concerned about
how the scores are used. Comparing this year's Port Chester fourth graders with
last year's based on the upcoming test will put this year's students and the
schools needlessly to shame because last year's classes did not have many
immigrant children tested. But comparing how well students do this school year
with how those same students do a year later, Ms. Ravitch said, would provide a
telling reflection of the school's progress. The federal government has started
a pilot program in such so-called ''growth model'' comparisons in Tennessee and
North Carolina.

What many experts seem to agree on is that No Child Left Behind testing policy
lacks a fine enough filter for the nuances of immigrant education. A more
calibrated policy -- one that can distinguish between a Dayana and an Israel,
for example -- would allow Port Chester to figure out more intelligently how
well it is doing.

As the system is now, many Port Chester students who have worked hard to master
English may feel deflated by next year's test results. Kristin Favale, who
teaches a bilingual third grade class, said some students who have been here
little more than a year would struggle with the test's vocabulary and phrasing.
''The test will not show the progress they've made in one year,'' she said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Administration Offers Plan To Ease Rules On Asylum

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11


After months of pressure from lawmakers, conservative groups and advocates for
immigrants, the Bush administration announced plans on Thursday to seek
legislation that would provide relief to thousands of refugees and asylum
seekers who have been inadvertently denied refuge because of antiterrorism laws.

The laws, including the USA Patriot Act and the Real ID Act, deny entry to
anyone who belongs to or has provided material support to armed rebel groups,
even if that support was coerced and even if the armed groups fought alongside
American troops or opposed authoritarian governments criticized by the Bush
administration.

The new legislative proposal would allow the resettlement of combatants and
members of those armed groups, including refugees fleeing the authoritarian
government of Myanmar, formerly known as Burma; hundreds of refugees from
Vietnam and Laos who fought alongside American troops in the Vietnam War; and
dozens of Cubans who supported armed groups opposed to Fidel Castro in the
1960s.

The Bush administration would also exercise its authority to provide waivers to
allow the resettlement of thousands of refugees from Myanmar, Vietnam, Tibet and
Cuba who provided material support to rebel groups. It would also, for the first
time, provide relief to the 5,600 people from those countries whose asylum
claims have been placed on hold here or who have been admitted as refugees but
prevented from becoming permanent residents here because of the antiterrorism
laws.

The administration would also allow some individuals who were forced to provide
support to groups deemed as terrorist to be resettled or granted asylum here.
Many were barred because the statutes broadened the definition of terrorist
groups to include any group of two or more people who take up arms against a
state, even if the group supports the aims of American foreign policy and do not
appear on the government's designated list of terrorist groups.

Refugee advocacy groups, including Human Rights First and Human Rights Watch,
and conservative groups like Concerned Women for America and the National
Association of Evangelicals, had pressed for such changes for months. And
officials acknowledge that many refugees suffered from the ''unintended
consequences'' of the antiterrorism laws, remaining stranded in bleak refugee
camps or in American jails while immigration courts debated their fates.

But Paul Rosenzweig, acting assistant secretary for international affairs at the
Department of Homeland Security, told reporters that the administration expected
to present legislation to Congress by the end of the month and to exercise most
of its waivers within a day or so. The waivers allowing for relief for Hmong and
Montagnard refugees, who fought with American troops in Vietnam, are also being
processed.

''There isn't anybody in this room who doesn't wish we could have moved more
quickly than we have,'' Mr. Rosenzweig said.

Advocacy groups hailed the decision as an important step forward, but warned
that it would still leave many people vulnerable.

Under the new plan, for instance, refugees and asylum seekers forced to
cooperate with groups on the government's list of terrorist groups would be
ineligible for resettlement or asylum here. That would affect Colombians forced
to support their country's largest rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia, among others.

The process would also leave out individuals who do not belong to the ethnic
groups named in the waivers.

''I think they have made some real progress, and as a result more people will be
protected,'' said Jennifer Daskal of Human Rights Watch. ''But many people will
continue to be barred and put at real risk. There's a need to go further.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 4, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Price of Citizenship

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 342 words


With one hand, Lady Liberty lifts her lamp beside the golden door. With the
other, she roots around in an immigrant's wallet, plucking out bills. It's not
an appealing image, but that's where we are, now that Citizenship and
Immigration Services, the beleaguered federal bureaucracy that makes new
Americans, has announced plans to increase fees sharply to cover its costs.

The agency is distinctive in the federal government for being entirely dependent
on fees it collects. It is also notable for backlogs and what its director,
Emilio Gonzalez, acknowledges are ''dingy buildings'' and ''rude employees.''
Mr. Gonzalez promises that if the agency is granted an average increase of 66
percent in the price of visas and citizenship papers, it will process
applications more quickly and take other steps to fulfill its responsibilities,
the costs of which have risen sharply since 9/11.

What this means for aspiring immigrants is simple: more cash upfront. The
application fee for citizenship would rise to $595 from $330. The fee for
permanent residency would increase to $905 from $325, and charges for bringing
in a foreign spouse or employee would more than double. Refugees and victims of
human trafficking or sex crimes would still have their fees waived, and other
applicants could request hardship waivers.

There are no easy formulas for pricing services like these, but advocacy groups
on both sides of the immigration debate agree that the increases are exorbitant,
and we agree. The proposed fees would become a means test for new Americans,
slamming the door on many people who desperately want to be part of this country
and have much to contribute.

The blame clearly lies with Congress, which has required the agency to support
itself entirely with fees. Congress should abandon this misguided rule and
allocate the money to run the agency adequately and efficiently. All Americans
benefit from the healthy, invigorating flow of naturalized citizens, and all
Americans -- not just the newest, least powerful ones -- should help pay for it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Considers Broader Visa Plan for Iraqis

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 308 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14


The Bush administration is considering legislation that would allow Iraqis who
have been singled out as collaborators for working or associating with American
officials to come to the United States on special immigrant visas or through
other programs, officials said Wednesday.

The program would be broader than the current special visa for translators,
which now provides 50 visas each year for translators who have worked for the
American military in Iraq and Afghanistan. That program already has a six-year
waiting list, according to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts
Democrat, who convened a hearing on Iraqi refugees last month.

Under the legislation being considered, Iraqis who have worked for the United
States government in various capacities or have associated with American
officials would be eligible for a special immigrant visa or a form of
humanitarian parole that would include the benefits typically provided to
refugees.

State Department officials, who described the program at a news conference on
Wednesday, said they hoped to finalize work on the legislation soon. Ellen
Sauerbrey, an assistant secretary of state, said that several thousand Iraqis
had worked for the United States in Iraq, but added that it was unclear how many
would be interested in resettling here.

She said the United States Embassy in Baghdad would be working with the United
Nations to identify such individuals, who may now be living in Syria or Jordan,
so that they can be given priority for refugee status.

Also at the news conference, Paula J. Dobriansky, the under secretary of state
for democracy and global affairs, announced that the United States planned to
resettle 7,000 Iraqi refugees. Officials say they hope that half of them will
arrive by Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year, and that more will arrive by the
end of 2007.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Demand for English Lessons Outstrips Supply

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON, N.Y.


Two weeks after she moved here from her native Brazil, Maria de Oliveira signed
up for free English classes at a squat storefront in this working-class suburb,
figuring that with an associate's degree and three years as an administrative
assistant, she could find a good job in America so long as she spoke the
language.

The woman who runs the classes at Mount Vernon's Workforce and Career
Preparation Center added Ms. Oliveira's name to her pink binder, at the bottom
of a 90-person waiting list that stretched across seven pages. That was in
October. Ms. Oliveira, 26, finally got a seat in the class on Jan. 16.

''I keep wondering how much more I'd know if I hadn't had to wait so long,'' she
said in Portuguese.

As immigrants increasingly settle away from large urban centers -- New York's
suburbs have had a net gain of 225,000 since 2000, compared with 44,000 in the
city -- many are waiting months or even years to get into government-financed
English classes, which are often overcrowded and lack textbooks.

A survey last year by the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials found that in 12 states, 60 percent of the free English programs had
waiting lists, ranging from a few months in Colorado and Nevada to as long as
two years in New Mexico and Massachusetts, where the statewide list has about
16,000 names.

The United States Department of Education counted 1.2 million adults enrolled in
public English programs in 2005 -- about 1 in 10 of the 10.3 million
foreign-born residents 16 and older who speak English ''less than very well,''
or not at all, according to census figures from the same year. Federal money for
such classes is matched at varying rates from state to state, leaving an uneven
patchwork of programs that advocates say nowhere meets the need.

''We have a lot of folks who need these services and who go unserved,'' said
Claudia Merkel-Keller of the New Jersey Department of Labor and Workforce
Development, noting that her state has waiting lists in every county, ''from
beginner all the way through proficient level.'' New Jersey, like New York and
many other states, does not keep statewide figures on how many people are on
waiting lists.

Luis Sanchez, 47, a Peruvian truck driver for a beer distributor in New
Brunswick, has been in this country 10 years -- and on the waiting list for
English classes in Perth Amboy five months. ''You live from day to day, waiting
to get the call that you can come to class,'' Mr. Sanchez said in Spanish,
explaining that he knew a little English but wanted to improve his writing
skills so he could apply for better jobs. ''I keep on waiting.''

Mr. Sanchez is unlikely to get the call soon: Perth Amboy's Adult Education
Center recently discovered that it was operating in the red and canceled 9 of
its 11 evening classes in English as a second language, including all at
beginner and intermediate levels. In Orange County, N.Y., where the immigrant
population doubled in the past 16 years, the Board of Cooperative Education
Services' adult education program has stopped advertising for fear its already
overflowing beginner classes will be overwhelmed.

In Framingham, Mass., 20 miles west of Boston, hundreds of people used to spend
the night in line to register for English as a second language, so the program
now selects students by picking handwritten names from a big plastic box.

''With the lottery, everyone has the same chance,'' said Christine Taylor Tibor,
director of Framingham's Adult E.S.L. Plus program. ''Unfortunately, you might
have to enter the lottery several times before you get in.''

Census figures show that in the United States there were 32.6 million
foreign-born residents 18 years or older in 2005, up about 18 percent from the
27.5 million counted in 2000 (and nearly twice the 17.1 million in 1990).
Federal spending on adult education, about $580 million last year, has increased
23 percent since 2000 and more than tripled since 1990; some 45 percent of the
money is devoted to English.

But financing varies widely across the states, which are required to allocate at
least one quarter of what was provided by the federal government: Kansas,
Nebraska, Oklahoma, South Dakota and Texas spent the minimum in 2003, according
to the Education Department, while California and Connecticut each spent about
seven times that.

In New York, the state Education Department added $76 million to the federal
government's $43 million for the 2005 fiscal year. That year, according to a
recent report by the Center for an Urban Future, a nonprofit research group
based in Manhattan, there were about 86,500 people enrolled in
government-sponsored adult programs for English as a second language, serving
about 5 percent of the state's 1.6 million adults with limited English skills.

Last fall, Arizona voters approved an initiative banning illegal immigrants from
benefiting from all state-financed programs, including English instruction;
administrators of English-as-a-second-language classes in several other states
said they do not check for documentation when registering students and thus do
not know how many of them may be in the country illegally.

Advocates for more English classes say the state-federal financing split leaves
an adult education system whose quality and reach vary widely from place to
place -- and is lacking most everywhere. Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee,
where the immigrant population has tripled since 1990, largely because of an
influx of Mexicans, sponsored a bill last year that would have given legal
immigrants $500 vouchers to pay for English classes since so many of the free
ones were full.

''Most education policy is the prerogative of state and local governments, but I
would argue that the prerogative to help people learn our common language is a
federal responsibility,'' said Senator Alexander, a Republican who was education
secretary under the first President George Bush. ''If we make it easier for
people to learn English, they will learn it. I think that ought to be a priority
of our government, and I don't think it has been.''

The government-financed classes are most often run by school districts or worker
training centers and generally require only a registration fee of perhaps $10.
Libraries, churches and community centers often also provide free or inexpensive
classes, like the English Language Institute at Westchester Community College in
Valhalla, N.Y., which offers nine levels of instruction for $76 to $247 per
three-month session. Then there are private programs like the one at Pace
University in Pleasantville, N.Y., which costs $790 for two classes a week for
14 weeks.

With immigrants accounting for half of the growth in the nation's labor force
from 1990 and 2000, and expected to make up all of the growth in the two decades
to come, ''the issue of English proficiency has become an issue of economic
development,'' said Tara Colton, the author of the Center for an Urban Future
report. Indeed, some business owners, frustrated at the lack of low-cost
classes, have begun teaching immigrants English at work.

At Skyline Furniture Manufacturing Inc. in Thornton, Ill., a suburb of Chicago,
about half of the company's 60 employees have learned English at the factory
over the past five years, under a state program in which the government pays to
bring teachers to work sites if companies pay workers for the hours in class.

''It makes sense to us because our workers can do their jobs better, and it
makes sense to them because they can advance in their jobs,'' said Cinthia
Nowakowski, the plant's manager, adding that three of the company's eight
foremen were promoted after completing the program. ''Besides, it's convenient.
The guys don't have to worry about having to arrange transportation to get to
school or getting there and finding that there's no room in the class.''

In Newburgh, N.Y., an Orange County town where one in five of the 29,000
residents are immigrants, Blanca Saravia has amassed an impressive portfolio of
odd jobs since arriving from Honduras in 2004: gas station attendant, office
janitor, cook's helper, and, for the last 14 months, packager at a local
nail-polish factory. Speaking in her native Spanish, Ms. Saravia said that she
has been able to get by with co-workers' translating, but that ''when the boss
gives orders, I don't understand.''

So earlier this month, Ms. Saravia joined 30 others in a cramped classroom
learning to conjugate the verb ''to be'' as part of the adult English program in
Orange County, where the immigrant population doubled in the last decade -- and
the number of free English classes has jumped to 26 from 2 in 1995.

''If I tell her, 'We're full, come back in a couple of months,' chances are
she'll get discouraged and never come back,'' said Ramon Santos, who runs the
Newburgh program.

Carl DeJura, director of adult basic education at Brookdale Community College in
Long Branch, N.J., said he has lately crammed as many as 40 students into a
class -- ''double what it should be.''

''If you have to cut back on textbooks, supplies and materials to serve the
people who need it,'' he said, ''that's what you do.''

In Mount Vernon, Haitian, Chinese, Somali, Arab, Mexican and Brazilian students
flock to the beginner class each morning at 8:30 before heading out to work or
to look for work. Ahmed Al Saidi, 49, who works at a gas station and moved from
Yemen in 1994, said in halting English that he wants to learn the language ''for
better work and to talk to people when I go to the store.''

Ms. Oliveira, the immigrant from Brazil, said she still knows too little English
to venture into the marketplace; her husband, who is American born and supports
the couple financially, encouraged her to enroll in the classes, held five
mornings a week.

''I hope that when I'm speaking a little better, I'll be able to find a job
where I can use the English I learned here and the skills I have from back
home,'' she said in Portuguese. ''When I was on the waiting list, there were
times I thought this time would never come.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: While many English language classes for immigrants, like this
one in Mount Vernon, N.Y., are free, they often have long waiting lists. (Photo
by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Ramon Santos, who runs the English language program in Newburgh, N.Y., above
left, with a new student, Blanca Saravia. Right, Maria de Oliveira, in the
middle, had to wait three months for a class in Mount Vernon. (Photographs by
Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart/Map: ''Waiting Lists
Lengthen''Financing for English as a Second Language (E.S.L.) classes has not
kept up with the surge in the foreign-born population needing such programs.
Each state is required to contribute at least one-quarter of federal money
received for E.S.L. and other adult programs. Some states contribute more, while
others contribute the bare minimum.Graph tracks the total spent on E.S.L. and
other adult programs in New York State from 1997 to 2005.Map of the United
States highlighting percentage of funds for E.S.L. and other adult programs that
comes from each state(July 1, 2003 to Sept. 30, 2005)NEW YORK STATE: 65%Map of
the United States highlighting estimated percentage of adults in each state in
need of E.S.L. service(Based on 2000 Census data)NEW YORK STATE: 10%(Sources by
U.S. Department of Education
 Census Bureau)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Family Second

BYLINE: By Michele Wucker.

Michele Wucker is the author of ''Lockout: Why America Keeps Getting Immigration
Wrong When Our Prosperity Depends on Getting It Right.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 557 words


THE Senate's expected introduction this week of a revamped education bill will
draw needed attention to the question of who may live and work in the United
States. Making sure that the workers we need can come here legally should be a
priority -- but it's not. Of the permanent-resident visas (green cards) awarded
in 2005, 58 percent went to foreign-born relatives of United States citizens;
only 22 percent were connected to employment.

Family ties are profound, and we should continue to admit spouses, minor
children and parents of naturalized and native-born American citizens without
quotas. But it makes no sense that roughly as many green cards are available to
adult siblings and adult children of citizens -- with no regard for their job
abilities -- as for skilled workers.

There are shortages of both temporary and permanent visas for scientists,
engineers, mathematicians, doctors and nurses. I've interviewed dozens of
talented people who gave up waiting and took their skills elsewhere. Meanwhile,
family chain migration is common: an immigrant becomes a citizen, then invites
his brother, who brings in his children and his wife, who eventually can sponsor
her parents and her sister, who can bring her children and husband and his
parents. As a result, the foreign-born population in the United States has
increased to record numbers since the current system was created in 1965.

Our economy depends heavily on skilled immigration. Half of research and
development workers, one-quarter of doctors and nurses, and a quarter of all
doctoral degree holders were born in other countries. Government and trade
groups estimate that we need some 20,000 more doctors and 300,000 more nurses.
Yet because only 140,000 employment-based visas are available each year, skilled
workers can wait five years or more for a green card. Annual per-country visa
caps make the wait even longer for high-migration countries like India and
China, which send us many engineers and scientists, or the Philippines, which
sends many nurses.

Skilled workers with professional careers are less likely than unskilled,
low-wage workers to risk working under the table. A few lucky ones obtain visas
when they marry American citizens. Even those who get green cards can find their
spouses and children entangled in the system; there's a six-year wait to reunite
the nuclear family of a Mexican green card holder.

Phasing out family-based preferences for adult siblings and adult children would
free up 138,066 green cards a year, nearly doubling the size of the job-based
category and making space for green card holders to bring wives and younger
children. Adult siblings and adult children could still immigrate under more
readily available job-based visas.

As adult-relative visas are phased out, we must address the plight of roughly a
million extended adult relatives waiting for visas because of country or
category caps. Still, eliminating the system's false promise would be fairer for
all concerned.

New laws could make it easier for the workers we need to come in the front door
instead of sneaking through the back door -- or going elsewhere. Even those who
so far have opposed increasing work visas ought to see the value of doing so in
return for a solution that eases chain-migration pressures and reflects
demographic and economic reality.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2007



CORRECTION: An Op-Ed article yesterday, about expanding visas for skilled
workers, at one point misidentified the relevant legislation that the Senate is
taking up this week. It is a revamped immigration bill, not an education bill.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Backs Union Rights for Airport Screeners

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6


The Senate voted Tuesday to give 45,000 airport screeners the same union rights
as border patrol, customs and immigration agents, despite a White House threat
to veto it.

The vote, 51 to 46, rejected an amendment by Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of
South Carolina, which would have removed the union rights from a broad
antiterrorism bill to carry out recommendations of the Sept. 11 commission
previously rejected by Congress.

The House passed a similar bill with the same union provision for airport
screeners in an indication of organized labor's strength with Democrats now
running Congress.

Republicans vowed to remove the provision when negotiators sit down to merge the
House and Senate bills.

''We're not going to let big labor compromise national security,'' said Senator
Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky.

Mr. McConnell, the minority leader, said there were not enough votes in either
the House or Senate to override a veto by President Bush.

White House officials released a statement last week saying President Bush's
senior advisers would recommend that he veto the bill if it included the
provision for screeners.

''It's absolutely absurd,'' said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North
Carolina. ''Terrorists don't go on strike. Terrorists don't call their union to
negotiate before they attack.''

Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said collective bargaining rights would
not allow screeners to strike and would grant them basic protections from
overwork, dangerous conditions and retaliation if they report security breaches.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Special Visas For Victims Remain Elusive Despite a Law

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words


The law was hailed as a tool to crack down on violent crimes against immigrant
women and children when President Clinton signed it. It authorized up to 10,000
special temporary visas a year to eligible victims in the United States who
helped the police and prosecutors, despite fear of deportation. And it let those
with the visas eventually apply for permanent residency on humanitarian grounds.

But more than six years later, not a single such visa has been issued. Thousands
of immigrants throughout the country are still awaiting a chance to apply for
the ''U-visas,'' as they are known, despite support from law enforcement
officials in eligible cases involving domestic violence, rape, sexual
exploitation, involuntary servitude, murder, attempted murder and assault.

The federal government has not issued regulations to implement the law, set
filing fees or even printed application forms. Instead, by the middle of last
year, more than 5,800 potential U-visa applicants who passed the first hurdle of
approval had been granted only one-year work permits and interim protection from
deportation. That tenuous legal status does not allow them to visit their
children abroad or bring them to the United States or legalize children who are
here.

Now, advocates for thousands of would-be applicants are suing the Bush
administration to compel it to follow the law, signed on Oct. 28, 2000. The
suit, filed yesterday in federal district court in San Francisco, asks for
class- action status, and was brought by a national coalition of civil rights
advocates and social service agencies including Sanctuary for Families, which
serves victims of domestic violence in New York.

''The fault lies with the Department of Homeland Security,'' said Julie
Dinnerstein, a lawyer at Sanctuary for Families, who praised the work done by
trained gatekeepers at United States Citizenship and Immigration Services who
screen the applications for interim relief and have granted more than 82 percent
of them. ''It has to do with inattention in Washington, D.C., where domestic
violence victims and victims of crime are a low priority.''

Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is
part of the Department of Homeland Security, said the delay reflected what she
called the agency's commitment ''to ensuring that the U-visa regulations are
well thought out.''

''It's a very complex process,'' she said. ''This is a visa for undocumented
immigrants who are victims of a long list of crimes. We're working with federal,
state and local law enforcement agencies, and the visa applications have not
only to reflect the needs of our law enforcement partners, but to offer
protection to those who are in the United States who are victims of criminal
activities.''

One plaintiff, Constantina Campos, 35, began seeking a U-visa in 2002, after her
husband was prosecuted in Brooklyn on charges of kicking and punching her and
throwing her down the stairs.

With the help of Sanctuary for Families, Ms. Campos, who came from Mexico
illegally with her oldest child in the 1990s, was eventually granted interim
relief from deportation and a one-year work permit. But unlike a U-visa, which
is good for three years, her status leaves her in legal limbo, she said, with no
way to legalize her eldest daughter, Luz Maria, a 16-year-old high school
student in New York who is worried that without papers she will be unable to
work or go to college.

''I've already renewed my work permit three times,'' said Ms. Campos, who
planned to speak at a news conference with lawyers outside City Hall today to
urge victims of domestic violence to seek help.

''I want to feel that I won't get arrested or deported, to be able to work
freely.''

And to Michael Chertoff, the secretary of Homeland Security, who is a defendant
in the suit, she added:

''Please, please give us something more -- the U-visa and the residency, so we
can be more secure in the United States, and so my daughter can study and be
eligible for scholarships.''

Another would-be U-visa applicant, Myriam Florez, 36, of Colombia, credited the
New York City police with saving her life when her abusive husband broke into
her apartment in violation of an order of protection in 2001. But she said that
many women like her were afraid to complain for fear of deportation.

Ms. Florez, a nurse's aide with two children in New York and one, a 15-year-old
daughter, in Colombia, said she was unable to attend her brother's funeral in
Colombia last year. On Sunday, she said, her daughter called her, crying, to say
''I can't make it any more. I want to be with you.''

''Many days, many months, many years I was crying for her,'' said Ms. Florez,
who left when her daughter was a year old. ''I say, how much time, God, how much
time do I have to wait to see my daughter?''

The charged debate over immigration since 9/11 has undoubtedly complicated the
politics of devising regulations for U-visas. Supporters of more restrictions on
immigration and stricter enforcement of immigration laws call the ''alphabet
soup'' of special visas enacted by Congress loopholes that do more harm than
good. Other critics of immigration policies say the visas are no substitute for
comprehensive overhaul.

But Peter Schey, a lawyer at the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law
in Los Angeles, one of the organizations that filed the suit yesterday, said the
failure to issue rules for U-visas was unlawful and had discouraged hundreds of
thousands of crime victims from coming forward.

He said that after a similar suit was filed in federal court in Los Angeles in
October 2005 , Congress gave the Department of Homeland Security until last July
to issue U-visa application forms and regulations.

Originally, he said, ''the intent of Congress was to help put violent criminals
behind bars, and for this to sit there for six years without action is
outrageous. It not only thwarts the will of Congress, it helps violent criminals
stay out of jail.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Passover Sermon, a Play, and a Century of the Melting Pot

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1217 words


The melting pot metaphor, touchstone of America's debate over immigration, was
claimed by the rabbi of a New York City synagogue, who said he coined it in a
Passover sermon he gave exactly 100 years ago.

The image has been traced to a naturalized New Yorker in 1782, and also to
DeWitt Clinton and Ralph Waldo Emerson. Later in 1907, a book by the English
writer Ford Madox Ford included a chapter titled ''The Melting Pot,'' which said
Britain had been revitalized by the influx of foreigners.

And finally, the following year, the phrase was popularized for eternity in
''The Melting Pot,'' a stage play by Israel Zangwill that preached the gospel of
assimilation.

''I coined the term,'' Rabbi Samuel Schulman said years after his 1907 sermon.
''But I used it in a much different sense than Zangwill subsequently did.
American democracy, in my mind, is a vast 'single melting pot,' in that it
absorbs all races, brings out the common humanity in each, separates the gold
from the dross and preserves only the gold.''

The play by Zangwill, a London-born son of Russian Jewish immigrants who was a
Zionist, made its debut in Washington in 1908 and played in New York for four
months the next year. The protagonist is David Quixano, a Jewish immigrant,
orphaned by a pogrom, who lives with his uncle on Staten Island and becomes
smitten with the daughter of a Russian nobleman.

In the end, love triumphs, inspiring David to declare from the rooftop of a
Lower East Side settlement house that ''America is God's crucible'' and to
declaim: ''What is the glory of Rome and Jerusalem where all nations and races
come to worship and look back, compared with the glory of America, where all
races and nations come to labor and look forward!''

Prof. Edna Nahshon, of the Jewish Theological Seminary in Manhattan, wrote in
the introduction to a new collection of Zangwill's plays that ''unlike its major
competitors -- salad bowl, stew, mosaic and symphony -- the melting pot image
focuses on process, not on outcome, and presents a prophetic vision that is
entirely futuristic.''

She said: ''The figurative term is an intrinsic element of American discourse
and functions as a key image in the country's self-definition.''

The play's title, wrote Nathan Glazer and Daniel Patrick Moynihan a half century
after its premiere, ''was seized upon as a concise evocation of a profoundly
significant American fact.'' At least in New York City, though, Moynihan argued
in their influential book ''Beyond the Melting Pot,'' ethnicity would eventually
be subsumed, yet would never be entirely submerged.

Zangwill originally titled the play ''The Mills of God,'' then ''The Crucible,''
before settling on ''The Melting Pot.'' The phrase has many fathers, including
J. Hector St. John de Crevecoeur, a French writer who lived for many years in
New York. He wrote 225 years ago that in America, ''individuals of all nations
are melted into a new race.'' In his famous sermon, Rabbi Schulman of Temple
Beth-El and later of Temple Emanu-El, both on Fifth Avenue, described America as
''the melting pot of nationalities'' (but went on to caution his congregation
against too much assimilation).

By that time, the phrase had appeared in various writings about assimilation,
including at least two articles in The New York Times in the fall of 1889 that
referred to the ''American melting pot'' as a ''mysterious force which blends
all foreign elements in one homogeneous mass.''

Zangwill's play debuted in New York at the Shuberts' Comedy Theater on Sept. 6,
1909, to criticism from Jewish religious leaders because it tacitly sanctioned
intermarriage. (Zangwill himself had married a non-Jew.) The New York Times
unambiguously pronounced it a ''very bad play''; another review said the play
''has nothing in it to interest man, woman or child, Jew, Heathen or
Christian.''

After it opened, Zangwill altered the text because President Theodore Roosevelt
complained that a line seemed to imply that Americans didn't take marriage
seriously enough. (Roosevelt later said the play ''shall always count among the
very strong and real influences upon my thought and my life.'') Starring Walker
Whiteside, an accomplished Indiana-born actor who later appeared in a silent
film version, ''The Melting Pot'' endured a four-month run on Broadway. It was
published and occasionally revived, but, as a play, was largely forgotten.

Zangwill, who also wrote ''Children of the Ghetto'' and ''The King of
Schnorrers,'' first visited the United States in 1898 (he likened New York to
''little toy houses built by children of giants'') and maintained an abiding
fascination with America.

In 1923, on his fifth visit, he urged fellow Jews to unite politically to
deliver a ''Jewish vote'' on vital issues. He berated New York audiences with a
jeremiad against hypocrisy over Prohibition, slow restaurant service, Sunday
newspapers, the dirtiness of Central Park, too many towels in hotel rooms,
''Southern slackness in New York'' and postwar restrictions on immigration.

''You shut out immigrants instead of holding out hospitable hands,'' he said.
''And how did you get your country? You took it by force from the Indians, and
your duty is to hold it in trust for humanity. You call it 'God's own country.'
For God's sake, make it so.''

Before returning to Britain, he said: ''I do not dislike America; I love her.
When I wrote 'The Melting Pot' I believed her the hope of humanity. How much
more terribly true that is today!''

Zangwill added, however: ''I must confess that at one time I had thought of
becoming an American citizen, but I have the desire no longer. I thought I could
help America, even though I would be debarred from becoming the president.''

He died in Britain in 1926 at age 62.

Since then, the metaphor of the melting pot has evolved. ''If it means that
cultures have mixed and impacted each other, he'd have no problem with it,''
said Professor Nahshon, whose book ''From the Ghetto to the Melting Pot'' was
published last year. ''If it meant uniformity, he'd totally reject the
meaning.''

The Zangwills had three children: Margaret, who was committed to a sanatorium;
Oliver, who became a professor of experimental psychology at the University of
Cambridge; and Ayrton, a metallurgical engineer who was about to marry a Welsh
woman when he was prodded by his mother to pursue his career instead. He left
Britain for a job in Mexico with a company owned by friends of the family, the
Guggenheims.

Ayrton changed his first name to Jorge and married Sara Terrazas Olivares, the
granddaughter of a cattle baron. The couple moved to El Paso, where their three
daughters were raised as Catholics.

''From that day forward, Ayrton never missed voting in an election,'' a
granddaughter, Patricia Z. Holland-Branch, who runs an interior design company
in El Paso, said the other day. He also became a Yankee fan.

Today, Israel Zangwill's descendants in the United States are a mixture of
Irish, Scottish, German, Pennsylvania Dutch, Italian, Swedish, Austrian and
Filipino.

''Israel Zangwill would have been proud to know,'' Ms. Holland-Branch said,
''that the family he helped create has become a tapestry of diverse cultures and
ethnic backgrounds, which personify the 'melting pot' he wrote about.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 1916 program for an Israel Zangwill play extolling
assimilation. (Photo by University of Iowa Libraries, Iowa City)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 10, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Edison Works to Cope With Simmering Ethnic Tensions

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1259 words

DATELINE: EDISON, N.J.


For a while, it looked like this sprawling township was coming apart at the
seams.

The unraveling began this summer, when Indian immigrants accused the police of
brutality during a Fourth of July incident. Then the local Police Benevolent
Association called for the mayor's resignation. Finally, ugly protests erupted
in which Indians were called ''cockroaches'' and were confronted by signs that
read, ''Act like animals and you will be treated like animals.''

''Unfortunately, the incidents over the summer exposed some raw feelings of
members of our community,'' said Parag Patel, 37, a former Township Council
president who is an ally of the mayor. ''And I think, unfortunately, the racial
tensions may still be underlying.''

In this ethnically mixed township of 100,000 in central New Jersey -- the
sixth-largest municipality in the state -- some residents still harbor
resentment, while others are working to defuse the situation. The furor has set
longtime residents against recent Indian immigrants, Indian against Indian and
the mayor against the Police Department.

The issues troubling Edison are not unfamiliar in towns with a fading industrial
base and a disaffected, largely white, blue-collar population. Ford Motor
Company closed a production plant here in 2004, eliminating 900 jobs, and Revlon
and Westinghouse have long since departed.

At the same time, Indians have been coming here since the late 1960's, and in
the last 15 years, the influx has been significant. Indians now total 17,000,
according to the United States census, nearly tripling since 1990. There are
also about 5,500 Chinese living here, making up the next largest ethnic group,
and a sizable Filipino community.

Trying to smooth the edges in this town -- an arresting clash of culture,
language, food and opinions -- the mayor, Jun H. Choi, a Korean-American who
himself was the subject of racial slurs during the mayoral campaign last year,
is being tested in his first year of office.

Normally, tensions are held in check, though misunderstandings persist. During
last year's campaign, for instance, a resident explained to The Home News
Tribune that she voted for Mr. Choi's opponent ''because he speaks English,'' a
statement that astounded aides to Mr. Choi, who speaks unaccented English.

For his part, Mr. Choi, 35, acknowledged that trying to lower the temperature
here would be ''complicated and challenging,'' but he said he was not deterred.

''The reality is that Edison Township can serve as a model for how positive race
relations can work in the community,'' he said.

The recent trouble began on the Fourth of July, when the police were called to
investigate reports that fireworks were being set off outside a housing complex
occupied largely by Indians.

What exactly happened is a matter of dispute. One Indian immigrant who lived
there, Rajnikant Parikh, a liquor store clerk, claimed that he was struck and
beaten by a police officer who had tried to disperse the crowd. The police and
the mayor said that the officer did not use excessive force, but was simply
trying to control the situation. Mr. Parikh was initially charged with
aggravated assault on a police officer, inciting a riot and resisting arrest,
though the charges were later downgraded to disorderly conduct.

An internal investigation cleared the officer, Michael Dotro, who a year earlier
had been involved in another clash between Indians and the police.

A month later, Mr. Parikh was seized by federal customs agents during a protest
over his arrest outside the township municipal building. Mr. Parikh, who the
authorities say is in the United States illegally, is being detained at a Hudson
County jail awaiting deportation. And the F.B.I. is investigating his July
Fourth arrest, according to township officials.

When the mayor asked for a review of police involvement leading to Mr. Parikh's
arrest, some police officers responded that Mr. Choi's move was ''politically
motivated'' and an attempt to appease members of the Indian community. The
president of the local Police Benevolent Association even called for the mayor's
resignation.

In a recent interview, Mr. Choi, who was elected in part because of the support
he got from Asian groups, admitted making missteps, mainly in communication.

''I certainly have not done everything right,'' he said.

But he insisted that the police had acted appropriately, and he pointed to ways
that he has been trying to ease some of the tensions.

But even those efforts have been marked by skepticism.

In mid-September, Mr. Choi announced the formation of an Advisory Committee on
Community Relations, which included members of the police, residents and two
Indian representatives, to hash out differences among factions in town.

But at a news conference at the municipal building that day, some Indians who
had gathered were angry at the mayor for choosing Mahesh Shah, who is the
president of the local Indian Business Association but does not live in the
township.

The news conference quickly devolved into raucous questions from competing
Indian factions, finger-pointing, and shouts of ''keep your mouth shut!''
Afterward, Bimal Joshi, the owner of a sign-making company here, accosted the
mayor and asked why he put a nonresident on the committee rather than a second
qualified resident. ''Why did you not consider them?'' he asked.

Yet there have been efforts at reconciliation as well.

On a chilly Friday night later that month, the chiefs of the Police and Fire
Departments and the president of the P.B.A. showed up at a Hindu festival known
as Navratri.

While young girls shivered in their traditional outfits, men exchanged business
cards. Later, the event's organizers beckoned police officers to light lamps for
an offering to the deities, marking the beginning of the festival. The officers
removed their shoes, smiled awkwardly, and later pronounced the night a good
first step in healing relations.

''Nice people,'' said the police chief, George Mieczkowski. ''We have a great
rapport with them.''

Later, as women and men danced a traditional dance known as a garba, the P.B.A.
president, Michael Schwarz, admitted that there was still much work to be done.
''We still have some problems,'' he acknowledged, noting that many Indians have
a fear of the police that was cultivated in their native country.

While Mr. Schwarz called the mayor's advisory committee, on which he sat, ''a
good idea'' and ''a first step,'' he said that the mayor still had a way to go.
''Hopefully, his inexperience will turn to experience,'' he said.

A week later, Mr. Schwarz resigned from the panel, deeming it too political.

One of the mayor's harshest critics, Pradip Kothari, the president of the Indo
American Religious and Cultural Center, has called for an apology from the
police, and accused the mayor of trying to ''divide the community.''

But Mr. Choi said that no apology would come, because, in his view, the police
did nothing wrong.

In his office in neighboring Woodbridge, Mr. Kothari, who owns a travel
business, said that many longtime residents believe that ''this country belongs
to them only.''

''They have forgotten a basic principle: that immigration is on which this
country is built,'' he said.

But Bill Stephens, a former councilman who ran against Mr. Choi in last year's
mayoral race, said that long-term white residents feared being forced from their
own town.

''I think there's a little thought of 'they're taking over and I'm being pushed
out of my community,' '' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sandip Patel, an Edison businessman, and George Mieczkowski, the
police chief, at the opening of the Navratri festival in September. Edison now
has about 17,000 Indian residents, according to census figures. (Photo by
Richard Perry/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 10, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Terms of Deportation

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 194 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Justices Ponder Conditions for Automatic Deportation'' (news article, Oct.
4):

Not only can legal permanent residents living in New York (even ones who have
lived here most of their lives) be deported for petty offenses such as turnstile
jumping, many are not aware of this dire consequence when accepting a guilty
plea.

If defendants were made aware of the possibility of deportation, they could
choose to go to trial or perhaps even find an alternative plea that would not
result in deportation. Inexplicably, New York State law requires only that
judges notify defendants that there may be immigration consequences from
convictions for felonies, creating the false belief that they are safe from
deportation if pleading to a misdemeanor.

Legislation pending in New York State would require judges to warn all
noncitizen defendants that there may be immigration consequences from a guilty
plea, but it has been ''dead on arrival'' in the State Senate.

New York needs this law to ensure that immigrant New Yorkers can make informed
choices when accepting a guilty plea.

Barry Kamins
President
New York City Bar Association
New York, Oct. 6, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

300 Million

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 416 words


America's 300 millionth person will be here any day now. The Census Bureau has
combined birth, death and immigration rates and expects him or her to arrive in
mid-October. No one knows where or how -- squalling in a birthing room in Los
Angeles, maybe, or darting out of the desert east of Phoenix.

That's too bad, because whoever it is should get a bouquet and a thank-you card.
It should be signed by President Bush on behalf of a grateful nation that is
buzzing with a youthful energy for which the aging powers of Europe would gladly
trade their pension obligations. If the newcomer is an immigrant, he or she
should also get an apology from Mr. Bush for the scarcity of worker visas, and a
promise to get right on that problem.

Whenever the population odometer hits a huge round number, it creates unease,
but we usually get over it. Predictions of planetary famine made the 1968 book
''The Population Bomb'' a raging bestseller, but today you find it only at
garage sales.

The doomsayer's torch has lately been grabbed by cultural sentinels like Patrick
Buchanan, whose new book warns that the United States is being reconquered by
disease-carrying Latinos. Unless Americans of white European descent can Ziploc
the borders and start churning out babies, he says, their age of civilizing
domination is done for.

Mr. Buchanan's fantasy is a common one among social conservatives, a supposed
era of cultural homogeneity that roughly corresponds with the postwar baby boom.
But if you take the longer view of our nation, you will see that it has been fed
and nourished by immigrants, and has an iron stomach for seemingly undigestible
newcomers.

Mr. Buchanan wants us all to go back to Mayberry, but the retro-future he
imagines would have the sedated stillness of a gated community. Or a nursing
home, which the rest of the rich, industrialized world -- Japan, Italy, Germany
and Britain, for instance -- is beginning to resemble.

In America, growth and vitality are the same thing. The engine of assimilation
hums on, with immigrants' children trading their mother tongues for teenage
upspeak with clockwork regularity. Annoyingly brilliant young people, of which
we have lots, keep coming up with world-upending ideas like Apple, Google and
YouTube.

Our teeming immensity keeps us from going stale, and despite some people's panic
attacks, our population issues have mysterious ways of working themselves out.
America has big problems, but it also has 300 million reasons to be hopeful.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  West: California: Portliness Thwarts Border Run

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 99 words


Five people trying to sneak into the United States from Mexico became trapped in
a narrow tunnel after the largest of them, a 200-pound man, got stuck trying to
climb out through a storm drain, the authorities said. Firefighters used
jackhammers at the San Diego-Tijuana border to widen the opening and free the
man, who had become stuck at the hips, said James Jacques, a spokesman for
Customs and Border Protection. Seven more people behind the group crawled back
into Mexico through the tunnel, Mr. Jacques said. The tunnel, about two feet
across, is part of San Diego's storm drainage system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Albany Men Are Convicted In Missile Sting

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON; Dennis Gaffney contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 10


A federal jury on Tuesday convicted two Muslim immigrants of participating in a
plot with a man who said he was helping plan a missile attack on a Pakistani
diplomat in New York City in 2004.

The man to whom the immigrants were linked was actually an informant working
with the F.B.I. in a sting operation against the two defendants, Yassin M. Aref,
36, an Iraqi refugee and the imam at an Albany mosque, and Mohammed M. Hossain,
51, a Bangladeshi immigrant and the owner of a pizzeria here. The gestation of
the case, with the government's informant ingratiating himself with the men and
initiating all the conversations about a shoulder-fired rocket launcher, led to
claims of entrapment from Mr. Hossain's lawyers during the three-week trial in
Federal District Court.

''Obviously we had a couple of individuals that were prone to supporting
terrorism,'' United States Attorney Glenn T. Suddaby said after the verdict.

Mr. Aref, the imam, smiled at his lawyers Tuesday as he left the courtroom in
custody. He has been in jail for the past year awaiting trial in the case. Mr.
Hossain, who had been free on bail, turned to address the handful of supporters
from the Masjid as-Salam Mosque where he and Mr. Aref met several years ago.
''Peace is my victory,'' he shouted. ''God is great. He is watching who is right
and who is wrong. Thank you so much to everyone.'' He, too, was led away in
shackles.

Prosecutors argued that he was driven by greed to enter a money-laundering
scheme, and the imam by ideology. The defense argued that both men were duped
into taking part in a deal they never understood. The garbled words supporting
both versions played out before the jury in several hours of surveillance tapes.

A lawyer for Mr. Hossain, Kevin A. Luibrand, said that the defendants would
appeal, and that the entrapment theory would again be raised. ''Before the
government arrived on the scene, they were not committing any crimes and were
not thinking about committing any crimes,'' he said.

The men are to be sentenced on Feb. 12. The lengths of their sentences were
unknown Tuesday, with Mr. Luibrand estimating 20 years in prison for Mr.
Hossain, who was convicted of more crimes than Mr. Aref.

The case began when the undercover informant, Shahed Hussain, who used the name
''Malik,'' introduced himself to Mr. Hossain at the Little Italy Pizzeria on
Central Avenue in July 2003, bringing gifts for the restaurateur's children,
according to testimony. The two became friends, and the informant offered to
lend Mr. Hossain $50,000 for improvements to the pizzeria. At later meetings,
Mr. Hussain testified that he told Mr. Hossain that the money he was going to
lend to him came from the sale of a missile launcher that would be used to kill
a Pakistani diplomat in New York.

In reality, there never was a plot. In one meeting, captured on a video that was
played at the trial, the informant showed Mr. Hossain a launcher. The
restaurateur said he had only seen such a weapon on television, and he asked if
it was legal, and the informant replied, ''What is legal in this world?''

The defense argued that such cryptic statements made it unclear what was being
discussed. Mr. Hossain, at the informant's request, began repaying the loan in
small checks of $2,000 to $6,000 over several months.

According to testimony, Mr. Hossain asked Mr. Aref to attend another meeting
with the informant to act, by Muslim custom, as a witness to the loan. Mr. Aref,
whose name and telephone number in Albany the government said were found in Iraq
that same year on papers discovered among suspected terrorists, testified that
he never knew of any plot.

A friend of Mr. Aref testified that at a dinner in 2004 at the imam's home, the
informant suddenly blurted out that New York would soon be attacked by a
missile, and that Mr. Aref quickly patted him down and asked, ''Are you carrying
a recorder?'' That time, there was none.

Mr. Aref testified that he thought Mr. Hussain was joking.

He also testified that anyone looking to attack the United States ''came to the
wrong person.'' Mr. Hossain had been interviewed several times at his pizzeria
over the years, saying once, after the Sept. 11 attacks, ''I'm proud to be an
American.''

The men were convicted of conspiring to aid a terrorist group and provide
support for a weapon of mass destruction, as well as money-laundering and
supporting a foreign terrorist organization, Jaish-e-Mohammed, or JEM, a group
in Pakistan that the informant told the men he supported. Mr. Aref was acquitted
of most of the 30 counts that involved writing checks.

Mr. Hossain is a citizen, but Mr. Aref, who arrived as a refugee from the
Kurdish region of Iraq, will eventually be deported, prosecutors said.

Before the verdict, Mr. Hossain's wife, Mossammat Fatima Hossain, sat quietly in
a booth at the pizzeria, which was empty but for a friend and her eldest son,
who is 13. Business had fallen since the indictment, she said. After she learned
of the verdict, she sat in the restaurant, unable to speak.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yassin M. Aref, in top photograph, and Mohammed M. Hossain were
convicted after a three-week trial. (Photo by Chip East/Reuters)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Threat to Free Speech

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 154 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Disruption of a Speech Causes a Furor at Columbia'' (news article, Oct. 7):

The Columbia University students who ''shut down'' the speech of Jim Gilchrist,
the head of the Minuteman Project, because they disagreed with his ideological
viewpoint on immigration issues need to be told, in no uncertain terms, that
their actions are simply unacceptable and antithetical to free speech.

Free speech is premised on the neutral principle that everyone has the
fundamental right to say what he or she wants on any subject, regardless of the
content of one's views or the stridency of one's language.

Any deviation from this long-honored principle, especially at American colleges
and universities, must be rejected as undermining a cornerstone of our basic
freedoms.

Norman Siegel
New York, Oct. 8, 2006

The writer, a civil rights lawyer, was executive director of the New York Civil
Liberties Union, 1985-2001.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Did You See That Elephant Cross The Border?

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 128 words


A Pennsylvania Congressional candidate and former reality TV personality used an
elephant and a mariachi band for a political stunt designed to make a point
about border security. The man, Raj Peter Bhakta, who appeared on the ''The
Apprentice,'' paraded an elephant and the band through the water near the mouth
of the Rio Grande on Tuesday. ''The elephant never made landfall into Mexico,
but I tell you something, he could have made 15 laps back and forth, but no one
showed up,'' Mr. Bhakta, a Republican, told The Brownsville Herald. Mr. Bhakta,
who favors construction of border fence, said he was in Brownsville to raise
money when he saw half a dozen men swimming under one of the international
bridges ''with complete immunity'' and decided to pull the stunt.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

As American as Vartan, Luis and Na

BYLINE: By CINDY CHANG

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Thursday Styles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1440 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


TO the people who suggest it might be easier if he calls himself Victor, Vartan
Zhamkochyan has a simple answer: no way. And though his last name is more of a
tongue twister than his first name, that, too, is nonnegotiable.

Mr. Zhamkochyan and his wife, Naira Mnatsakanyan, shunned the time-honored
immigrant tradition of anglicizing their names when they became United States
citizens last month. Both are determined to keep using their full Armenian
names, despite the obvious inconveniences.

''They can't say my first name or my last name,'' said Ms. Mnatsakanyan (whose
full name is pronounced NIGH-rah meh-naht-sah-KHAN-yahn), 35, an accounting
student from Burbank, outside Los Angeles. ''It's really hard for them. But I
love for them to try and say it, since it's my name, it's my father's name.''

Hayedeh or Heidi? Estuardo or Steve? Simhe Kohnovalsky or Sam Cohn? From the
ragtag Polish farmer at Ellis Island to the wealthy businessman who arrives on a
first-class flight from Tehran, immigrants with names likely to trip up the
average American have to confront questions about one of the most defining
pieces of a person's identity.

Plenty of immigrants still change their names to something easier for their new
compatriots to pronounce. But unlike their Ellis Island predecessors, modern
immigrants live in a multicultural society where assimilation no longer means
having to sever all ties to where they are from.

Today's anglicizations are less likely to be forced by bosses or teachers and
more likely to be the product of careful consideration about the tradeoff
between fitting in and giving up a part of one's heritage, immigrants and
cultural experts say.

Increasing acceptance of nonmainstream names seems an inevitable next step, as
immigrant pride finds a prominent place on the national stage -- witness the
millions of Spanish speakers chanting ''Si, se puede'' (''Yes, we can'') in the
streets last spring -- and new Americans maintain a firm grip on their native
languages, foods and customs.

Only 16 percent of the nearly 700,000 people who became naturalized citizens in
the last year requested a name change, according to statistics from the United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services. The rest decided to stick with
given names like Quirino, Takero, Wenyi and Erendira.

''Obviously, early in the 20th century, with the whole Americanization movement,
people were encouraging the immigrant community to be more American,'' said
Marian Smith, the immigration services historian. ''If you fast forward 50
years, you find an America where people say that's something you really have to
think about, how much of your identity is your name. To even suggest to someone
that they change their name is to suggest there's something wrong with their
name as it is.''

While many choose American first names for their offspring, that is also
changing. Angel was the most popular name for Hispanic boys born in New York
City in 2005, according to its Health and Mental Hygiene Department, with Jose
and Luis also among the top 20. There were 162 Carloses, 95 Giovannis, 41
Guadalupes, 25 Anjalis and 17 Yukis born to New Yorkers last year.

In a country where falafel and pad thai are now nearly as commonplace as Chinese
takeout, some children of immigrants are even reclaiming their ethnic names,
suddenly announcing that they will no longer use the American first names their
parents gave them but will henceforth be known as Aiko or Ying-hui.

''We feel much more accepted into American society now,'' said Hongxia Liu, who
came to the United States from Beijing in 1986 and has kept her Chinese name,
which means rainbow. ''Why not keep our own identity, our cultural heritage,
including the name, especially the name coming from your parents?''

Ms. Liu, the director of an international legal assistance center in Washington,
says that friends puzzle over how to pronounce her name, especially the ''x.''
She tells them to think of it like the ''sh'' sound.

She and her husband, Jianye Wang, named their daughter and son Lumay and Jayon
-- derivatives of the Chinese names Lumei and Jiyang. The Wang children, now
teenagers, love their names.

''We wanted to keep the Chinese identity but in the meantime make them easy to
pronounce and remember,'' Ms. Liu said.

Tina Cordova, who owns a construction company in Albuquerque, grew up in an era
when many Hispanic parents avoided speaking Spanish at home in the hope that
their children would grow up to be wholly American. Her father, Anastasio
Antonio Cordova, always went by Tony, and he named his four children Tina,
Tammy, Matthew and William.

Now, all of Ms. Cordova's immigrant employees go by names like Santiago and
Alejandro. Her grandchildren, Marcus Philimon and Demetrius Anthony, have names
that, if not traditionally Mexican, are a departure from the ''Leave It to
Beaver'' names of her generation.

''Everyone was trying back then to fit in, hence me and my brothers and sister
have very American names,'' said Ms. Cordova, 47. ''Now there's a tendency
toward not feeling so uncomfortable naming your children something that sounds
ethnic.''

Based on data compiled from birth certificates, Stanley Lieberson, a Harvard
sociology professor, concluded that until the 1980's, immigrants quickly
conformed to prevailing norms in naming their children. But he also noticed that
African-American names diverged increasingly from the mainstream in a pattern
that correlated with growing social status and racial pride. A similar trend may
be developing among immigrants today.

''Declaring I am whatever it is I am is cool now, where it might not have been
earlier, partly because of a greater tolerance to nonassimilation,'' Professor
Lieberson said. ''There is a shift over time toward ethnic assertiveness.''

Frank and Na Hong, like many other Asian immigrants, gave their two children
American first names and Korean middle names. Their son, Timothy Seung-Ho Hong,
often fended off ethnic slurs while growing up in Seattle and New Orleans.

But in college, Mr. Hong took ethnic studies classes and joined Asian-American
advocacy groups. When he moved back to New Orleans six years ago, Mr. Hong
started going by Seung-Ho, later shortening it to Seung after people had trouble
pronouncing the full name.

The transition has mostly gone smoothly, though his father still slips up and
addresses him as Timmy. People routinely butcher the name, calling him Shawn or
Sang -- it is pronounced ''Sung'' -- and are more likely to assume that he is a
foreigner. But for Mr. Hong the inconvenience is worth it.

''I wanted to more strongly connect with my history, my culture and having my
name be kind of like a reminder of who I am,'' said Mr. Hong, 30, who is the
legislative director for a New Orleans city councilwoman.

Some Asian-Americans who started out using their ethnic first names switched to
more traditional American names, only to reclaim their original names as adults.
After moving to Indiana from Southern California, Fumiko Chino's parents decided
she would have a tough enough time being half Japanese in the Midwest without
having a foreign-sounding name. From then on, she was known by her middle name,
Catherine.

Ms. Chino is now using her Japanese name again, and three of her four siblings
have also reverted.

''I love the fact that it's an old Japanese name,'' said Ms. Chino, 29, who
until recently worked in the art department of an anime film company in Houston.
''People who are Fumikos are in their 70's. It's unique, and I like that. It
also helps clarify who I am. I hate getting the question, 'What are you?' ''

In Hollywood, too, where name changes are as common as nose jobs, the tide may
be turning, as Asian actresses like Zhang Ziyi and Gong Li star in big-budget
productions.

The actress Ming-Na tried going by Maggie and Doris as a teenager, an attempt to
fit in better at a school in the Pittsburgh area, where she was the only Asian
student. But she said none of those names felt right, and she stuck with her
given name as she tried to forge a career in Hollywood, even rejecting advice
from Wayne Wang, the director of ''The Joy Luck Club,'' that she anglicize it.

She went on to become one of Hollywood's best-known Asian-American actresses. At
her suggestion, the Chinese-American doctor she played on ''ER'' underwent a
name change from Deb to Jing-Mei.

''What's great is that as you grow up, you have a stronger idea of who you are
and pride about your heritage,'' she said. ''It becomes more of, 'No, no, you
guys have got to come around to learn how to pronounce our names.' ''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: IT'S MY NAME -- Naira Mnatsakanyan and her husband, Vartan
Zhamkochyan, new citizens, don't intend to change their names to be more
American. Chando Mapoma, with Alaric, his son, would agree. (Photographs by Rick
Friedman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Citizenship Minutes Away, Woman Is Stopped Over a Gun

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 406 words


Mal Soon Jin, a Korean woman who has lived in the United States for 20 years and
run a fruit store with her husband, was minutes away from a moment that looms
large for many immigrants in their quest for the American Dream: the
naturalization ceremony that would make her a United States citizen.

But when she walked into the marble lobby of United States District Court in
Brooklyn about 8 a.m. yesterday to take the oath, and placed her handbag on the
X-ray machine's conveyor belt, she hit a snag. A court security officer
operating the machine spotted an unloaded five-shot .22-caliber silver derringer
in a zippered compartment in her handbag, according to the authorities.

As a result, Ms. Jin did not attend the morning naturalization ceremony on the
second floor with hundreds of other soon-to-be citizens. Instead, she was
arraigned on federal gun charges in a smaller courtroom, just steps away on the
second floor.

After a brief hearing, United States Magistrate Judge Cheryl L. Pollak released
Ms. Jin, 49, of Flushing, on a $100,000 bond after her lawyer, Peter
Kirchheimer, said that her home, worth more than $800,000, was in her name and
that she also owned a commercial property.

The crime of possessing a gun in the courthouse, a felony, carries a possible
penalty of 6 to 16 months under federal sentencing guidelines, Mr. Kirchheimer
said in court. Conviction could bar Ms. Jin from citizenship. But Mr.
Kirchheimer said that the government must prove that she knowingly possessed it,
and because she watched scores of people place their belongings on the X-ray
machine's conveyor belt and pass through a metal detector before passing through
herself, he contended she could mount a strong defense.

''She was here to be naturalized,'' he told the judge. ''She wins the case,
she's still going to be naturalized.''

The chief deputy United States marshal at the courthouse, Timothy E. Hogan, said
that it was the first time in his four years there that someone had been caught
taking a gun into the courthouse.

One law enforcement official said that when court security officers found the
unlicensed gun, Ms. Jin first suggested that someone else had stuck it in her
bag, then accused the officers of planting it, and finally said she did not know
from where it had come.

Her brother-in-law, Francis Jin, said Ms. Jin did not even know how to shoot a
gun. ''She said she's always scared about those things,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New American Name

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 263 words



To the Editor:

Re ''As American as Vartan, Luis and Na'' (Thursday Styles, Oct. 12):

My daughter, now 7, has the most common female name of recent years, Emily. So
we had prepared her for the idea that she would probably be one of many Emilys
when she began school.

As it turned out, she was the only Emily in her kindergarten class. But there
were two Rafaels, because of the recent immigration of Hispanic families into
our community.

To the TV-trained Anglo children in Emily's class, though, the nod to heritage
for the Rafaels was lost.

Instead, they were all very envious because they were sure their classmates had
been named after a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle!

Diane Fitzsimmons
Norman, Okla., Oct. 12, 2006

To the Editor:

With the increased level of travel and communication with our home countries, it
would be so odd for an immigrant, like me, to be known by different names in two
places.

I visit, phone and e-mail home with such regularity that changing my name for my
life here would be a strange rejection of my family and background.

Back when immigrants had limited contact with their home country, and rarely if
ever went back to visit, it really was much more feasible to establish a new
name and identity.

But in my situation, I had a perfectly ordinary name until I came to the United
States from Ireland.

On one of my earliest days here, a foreign-born engineer at my first job pulled
me aside and gave me some advice: ''If you can learn to say their last names,
they can learn to say your first name.''

Fionnuala Quinn
Fairfax, Va., Oct. 13, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 20, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

County G.O.P. Asks Candidate To Withdraw Over Letter Threat

BYLINE: By CINDY CHANG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 19


The Orange County Republican Party asked one of its Congressional candidates on
Thursday to withdraw from the November election after a campaign worker from his
office sent a letter threatening Hispanic voters with jail if they went to the
polls.

The candidate, Tan Nguyen, who is running on an anti-immigration platform, said
in a news release on Thursday: ''Evidently, an employee took it upon herself to
allow our database to be used to send out the letter. It was disseminated
without my authorization or approval. The employee has been discharged.''

The letter, which The Los Angeles Times reported was sent to about 14,000 voters
in central Orange County last week, wrongly claimed that immigrants could be
subject to criminal penalties if they voted in a federal election. Immigrants
may vote only if they are naturalized citizens.

The letter also claimed that anti-immigration groups would be able to access a
federal computer system containing the names of those who vote in October and
November. No such database exists.

Despite Mr. Nguyen's disavowing involvement with the letter, local Republican
leaders said they thought he had played a direct role in it, said Adam
Probolsky, a spokesman.

''The Republican Party of Orange County has asked Mr. Nguyen to resign his
candidacy,'' Mr. Probolsky said. ''We condemn all voter intimidation, and Mr.
Nguyen is not a welcome member of our party.''

Mr. Nguyen, a Vietnamese immigrant, is running an underdog campaign for the 47th
Congressional District seat held by a five-term Democrat, Loretta Sanchez, a
member of the House Hispanic Caucus. The district has a sizable Vietnamese and
Hispanic population.

The Justice Department and the California attorney general are investigating the
case. Bill Lockyer, the attorney general, said Wednesday on a local radio
station, KPCC-FM, that the sender of the letter might have violated state laws
against voter intimidation.

Written in Spanish and mailed to residents with Hispanic surnames, the letter
advised that ''if you're an immigrant, voting in a federal election is a crime
that can result in incarceration'' or deportation.

It was signed Sergio Ramirez and printed on stationery purporting to be that of
the anti-immigration group California Coalition for Immigration Reform. That
group's leader, Barbara Coe, said the stationery did not resemble her group's
and denied it had sent the letter.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 21, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where the Ancient Gods of China Are Remembered

BYLINE: By LILY KOPPEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 996 words


Tucked between a bodega and a fish market on Broome Street sits Fulai Temple,
one of Chinatown's many storefront temples displaying large golden buddhas
shrouded in mysterious chants and clouds of incense. Unknown to most people are
the dreams and desires in these buildings, along with the gold statues, golden
paper and rainbow colors.

Looking for love, marriage, happiness? Fertility? Those precious things are
promised in large red Chinese characters over traditional imperial yellow on
plastic awnings, much like those over the front of a deli or a cellphone store.
Open to the public, the temples provide a gateway to answers, but negotiating
the terrain can be difficult.

That is why Isabel Chang, 31, a Web designer, decided to demystify the
experience. Ms. Chang spent the last year studying these houses of worship,
intent on showing how they place ancient Chinese beliefs in the contemporary
landscape.

Her work has been turned into a public Web project that was opened yesterday on
the Web (http://gods.tenement.org/), sponsored by the Lower East Side Tenement
Museum, where Ms. Chang is the digital artist in residence.

Her project, called Gods of Chinatown, consists of a map and visual tour of the
temples. Ms. Chang, who lives in an apartment building on Essex Street with two
storefront temples, sees them as ''windows of insight into the hopes, dreams and
longings of immigrant lives.''

They are often a first stop for Chinese immigrants seeking spiritual guidance
and practical advice. Ms. Chang, who graduated from Cornell and holds a master's
degree in digital media from Columbia, was born in Taiwan, immigrated with her
parents to Bolivia, then Florida, Texas and finally New York, where she has
lived for a decade.

For her temple project, Ms. Chang's own urban quest provided an added eccentric,
romantic element. ''At the time I was working at an ad agency and wanted to know
if I should quit my job,'' she said. ''I was looking for a boyfriend with an
XBox and a rice cooker.''

Ms. Chang is a petite woman with long black hair and a Brussels Griffon dog
named Chewie. She took him with her when she interviewed, in Mandarin or
Cantonese, the women in the temples who tell fortunes as they burn ceremonial
money and cast the I Ching, the ancient Chinese book of divination.

Ms. Chang described 10 Taoist and Buddhist temples in her project and recently
toured some of them. First stop, one of her favorites, the Temple of the Great
Yellow Immortal, at the corner of Bowery and Pell Streets. She said that Chinese
gods have their own personalities and that they were often people who had made
significant contributions while alive and were deified after death. ''He was a
famous doctor 2,000 years ago,'' she said of the deity honored by this temple.
''He is known for being very accurate.''

Temples are both impersonal and communal. As Ms. Chang visited this one, a
passing woman paused outside, put down her plastic grocery bags in the doorway,
bowed several times with her hands in a prayer pose without entering, and then
walked on.

Inside, beyond a large goldfish tank, two women were chatting. The one who
worked there kept a watchful eye on the donation box. She politely declined to
give her name or have her picture taken, and Ms. Chang said that was her
experience with many temple workers and that some said they feared that Ms.
Chang worked for the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''They were surprised I was interested in this type of worship,'' she said of
the mostly older women who volunteer several hours of their day to watch over
the temples, with the intense gaze of a Parisian concierge. ''Young Chinese are
not interested.''

Successful temples show their gratitude to patrons with red strips of paper that
display the names of donors and the amount they give. For sale are plastic
bottles of canola oil stacked in yellow pyramids.

The central focus of the room is the shrine. In the middle is the statue of the
temple's deity flanked by symbolic offerings of plentitude -- stacked oranges,
green curlicues of bamboo, fragrant lilies, fake shocking-pink petals, gold
coins shaped into a pineapple and red-tasseled paintings of gods.

Protocol varies from temple to temple, but the basic practice involves putting
several dollars in a donation box for a few sticks of incense. These are lighted
before the deity from small candles floating in bowls of canola oil and then
placed in an urn, like a miniature sandbox. ''With your left hand!'' Ms. Chang
admonishes.

Then it is time to pick up the moonstones, two wooden croissant-shaped objects
that are tossed like dice on the floor until the right combination appears, one
facing up and one facing down. A fortune stick is selected from a canister
followed by a visit to the woman of the temple, who provides a pink divination
slip with writing that matches the writing on the stick. For a few extra dollars
in the donation box, she may interpret the slip, which is in traditional poetry,
and the fortune can be, Ms. Chang explained, ''good, bad, really good or
medium.''

Some temples are oriented exclusively toward women. The Temple of Zheng Fourteen
Mother Saint at 100 Eldridge Street honors a famous folklore goddess. As Ms.
Chang entered, she was sprayed with drops of water by a woman who said it was to
make her fertile. The woman lived in back of the temple, her bed fitted into a
closet-size space near a makeshift kitchen.

Unexpectedly, in the course of her temple hunting, many of Ms. Chang's own
soul-searching questions were answered. She quit that earlier job, postponing
her freelance work in order to pursue her artistic projects. A photographer whom
she found to take pictures for her Web map of Chinatown temples became her
boyfriend (with an XBox and a rice cooker, too).

Above all, she began to better understand and appreciate her role in the
neighborhood. The temple workers now ask her to translate their English mail.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Isabel Chang, 31, in the Temple of the Great Yellow Immortal.
She said temple women didn't expect one so young to be interested in the old
ways.
 The worshipers put incense sticks in an urn after they have made donations to
the temple, which usually are a few dollars. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 23, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Shorter Path To Citizenship, But Not for All

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Jo Craven McGinty contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1641 words


Beverly Lindsay, a Jamaican-born practical nurse who has made her home in New
York for 26 years, filed for citizenship in June with the help of her union, and
prepared for a long wait. After all, as recently as a year ago, the United
States government acknowledged a huge backlog in such applications, and
estimated that processing typically took almost a year and a half in New York --
triple the wait in San Antonio or Phoenix.

But a mere three months and 10 days after Ms. Lindsay applied, she was sworn in
as a citizen. ''I'm proud, and I'm happy I'm going to vote in November,'' said
Ms. Lindsay, 49.

Her success, however, underscores the frustration of Sophia McIntosh, another
New Yorker from Jamaica who applied for citizenship through the same health care
workers union program three years ago. Not only is she still waiting, but her
case is also now among at least 960,000 immigrant applications pending
nationwide that federal officials have simply stopped counting as part of their
backlog -- a backlog they had pledged to eliminate by this month.

''It's not fair,'' said Ms. McIntosh, 34, a nursing assistant and mother of two,
who has been a legal resident of the United States since 1992. ''I did all the
right things. I want to be able to have a voice in this country.''

Until recently, the glut of pending cases was so large that President Bush's vow
in 2001 to cut the standard wait to six months or less nationwide seemed
unreachable. Now immigration officials say they have more than met that goal,
shrinking the average wait to five months for a citizenship decision. And no
district shows more dramatic improvement than New York, where the wait has
officially shrunk to 2.8 months.

But the numbers are not quite as rosy as they seem. To accomplish their mission,
officials at the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services explain,
they identified and stopped counting thousands of backlogged cases that they now
define as outside the agency's control, mostly those delayed by unexplained lags
in standard security clearances by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The result is a two-tier system. More applicants than ever are receiving a
decision in record time, in part because of an influx of temporary workers
working for the agency and new efficiencies. But others are still falling into
the system's black holes, joining thousands who have been waiting for years, but
are now off the map. While praising the agency's improvements, immigrant
advocates contend that officials have manipulated the figures to declare victory
and made it harder to seek redress.

Behind the clash over the agency's new math are anxieties heightened by the
immigration debate and looming elections, advocates and officials said. Legal
residents who lack the security of citizenship feel more vulnerable to
deportation these days and deprived when they cannot vote. And the immigration
agency is under political pressure to show that it can handle any new programs
without derailing old ones.

''Why should we be faulted for sitting on cases that we aren't sitting on?''
asked Emilio T. Gonzalez, director of Citizenship and Immigration Services,
which now takes responsibility for fewer than 140,000 of the 1.1 million
immigrant applications that it identifies as pending for more than six months.

Mr. Gonzalez added that he would soon seek ''significant'' fee increases to
cover the costs of processing applications. The agency is losing many of the
1,200 temporary employees who helped speed lagging cases under a four-year
Congressional grant that ended Sept. 30.

But to Laura Burdick, a national deputy director of Catholic Legal Immigration
Network, raising the fees would only compound the inequity experienced by those
who have nothing to show for what they pay -- for a citizenship application, the
cost is now almost $400. As for the change in the way cases are counted, she
added, ''It makes you just question the validity of any of the information
they're giving us.''

Data supplied by the government to The New York Times showed some unusual
fluctuations. The New York office, for example, has long had the largest pending
citizenship caseload in the nation, averaging about 100,000 through much of 2004
and 2005. The estimated wait for a decision was more than 16 months in October
2005. But a month later, it dropped to nine months, and 33,240 applications
vanished from the count of pending cases.

Christopher Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, said
a physical inventory conducted for the first time in three years had revealed
that the agency had overcounted its backlog by more than 33,000 cases. ''The
really good news is the vast majority of those cases were cases that had already
been completed,'' he said.

Temporary workers were deployed to help from as far away as Texas and Nebraska,
Mr. Bentley added, and the remaining caseload in New York shrank to 33,017 by
July. New definitions deducted 10,663 more city cases as being outside the
agency's control, which cut the estimated wait for the remaining 22,354 to less
than three months. Such calculations have puzzled Crystal Williams, deputy
director of programs for the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

''I really don't understand why they're doing this,'' she said, ''because they
have accurate good news to give: They have improved enormously. But it's pretty
obvious to anyone who has observed this process for any amount of time that they
are playing with the numbers.''

She added, ''All these cases they aren't counting still have to be adjudicated
-- it's not like they've gone away.''

Thousands of applicants are being omitted from the backlog for reasons other
than security checks, usually because the agency has asked for more information,
the applicants are awaiting a second interview or a local court has not yet
scheduled an oath of allegiance.

But delays in conducting security clearances are especially frustrating for
applicants. Lorenzo Zepeda, 38, who immigrated from El Salvador at 18 and worked
his way up from pot washer to head chef at a nursing home in Woodmere, N.Y.,
applied for citizenship almost three years ago.

''We already write, like, 10 letters to them; we never get no answer back,''
said Mr. Zepeda, who is married to an American. The couple are expecting a child
in April. ''I really love this country. I want to make decisions in this
country. And I'm paying my taxes like everybody else.''

Also still waiting are a number of Iraqi Kurds who arrived in the United States
a decade ago as political refugees, settled in Nashville and were interviewed by
the F.B.I. before the Iraq war as experts loyal to the United States.

One refugee, Hadi Gardi, 49, says he teaches Arabic and Kurdish to American
soldiers at an Army base in Georgia. He passed background checks for that job,
as he did for earlier ones dating to his work as a translator for Americans in
Iraq. His wife gained citizenship last October. But though he applied when she
did, he is still waiting, told only that the F.B.I. is checking his name.

''I lost so many opportunities,'' he said, referring to government jobs that
were open only to citizens. He added that he had made fruitless appeals to his
congressman.

By law, applicants who are not given the citizenship oath 120 days after passing
the interview can seek a court order compelling government action. Such suits
have pushed the authorities to expedite some security name checks that had been
languishing, including cases of elderly and disabled refugees who have to
naturalize within seven years or lose government aid.

But in May, citing national security concerns, Citizenship and Immigration
Services closed off that path by ordering district offices not to hold
interviews until clearances were completed.

Last month, in court papers seeking the dismissal of a federal lawsuit brought
on behalf of stymied applicants in New York, lawyers for the government provided
a rare window into the F.B.I.'s National Name Check Program, giving insight on
why the process can take so long.

The first step involves a computerized search of the F.B.I.'s Universal Index of
94.6 million records for all mentions of a name, a close date of birth and a
Social Security number. Different permutations of the name are tried, like the
first and middle name only. Nearly a third of naturalization cases come back as
having a potential match.

Most of those are cleared up within three months through a search of computer
databases. But in 10 percent of all cases, the possible reference is in paper
records created before automation in October 1995 and in one of 265 possible
locations. F.B.I. analysts must retrieve and review records to see whether the
information actually pertains to the same individual and is derogatory.

''Common names (such as Mohammed, Singh, or Smith) may result in hundreds of
potential matches,'' government lawyers wrote. ''The sheer volume of the
requests has also resulted in delays.''

Immigration name checks compete not only with those needed for
counterintelligence, but also with a growing number sought by government
agencies before they bestow a privilege, like attendance at a White House
function. Demand has risen drastically, from 2.5 million requests a year before
Sept. 11, 2001, to more than 3.7 million in fiscal year 2005. Among those still
unresolved are more than 400,000 immigrant name checks dating to December 2002.

Still, more recent applications are moving so fast that the citizenship program
at the health care workers union has doubled the size of its annual celebration,
said Celeste Douglass, the coordinator. ''People want the safe status of a U.S.
citizen,'' she added. ''That six-month turnaround is really starting to happen.
Now, how do we get those cases out of the backlog?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Beverly Lindsay, 49, a nurse from Jamaica, became a citizen
three months after submitting her paperwork. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New
York Times)
Lorenzo Zepeda, 38, who immigrated from El Salvador at 18, applied for
citizenship almost three years ago. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York
Times)
 Hadi Gardi, 49, a political refugee from Iraq, said he has been told only that
the F.B.I. is checking his name. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York
Times)(pg. B4) Chart: ''Immigration Caseloads''The number of pending citizenship
cases dropped sharply when new definitions classified some as outside the
control of immigration officials.New York CityJULY 2006New applications:
6,337Total cases pending: 33,017Total deducted because of new definitions:
10,663Percentage of deducted cases awaiting security name checks: 74%NewarkJULY
2006New applications: 2,981Total cases pending: 20,791Total deducted because of
new definitions: 7,288Percentage of deducted cases awaiting security name
checks: 57%Los AngelesJULY 2006New applications: 9,331Total cases pending:
58,066Total deducted because of new definitions: 12,515Percentage of deducted
cases awaiting security name checks: 52%MiamiJULY 2006New applications:
4,640Total cases pending: 40,991Total deducted because of new definitions:
11,108Percentage of deducted cases awaiting security name checks: 64%(Source by
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 24, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seeing Promotion Possibilities in the Tick of the Population Clock

BYLINE: By PATRICIA WINTERS LAURO; Stuart Elliott contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1024 words


IN an era of rancorous debates about overpopulation and immigration, only a few
marketers are paying attention to a major promotional opportunity that occurred
last week when, according to the Census Bureau, the population of the United
States reached 300 million.

The milestone ''has really energized the zero-population-growth people who don't
want any more growth,'' said Peter Francese, the founder of American
Demographics magazine who is now the demographic trends analyst for Ogilvy &
Mather Worldwide, part of the WPP Group.

The 300 millionth American might have been an immigrant and not a newborn baby,
a census spokesman, Stephen Buckner, said.

In 1967, when the population of the United States hit 200 million and
immigration was not a hot-button issue, the milestone was celebrated in an
elaborate public ceremony by President Lyndon B. Johnson.

This time, some marketers do see potential in linking themselves to the arrival
of the 300 millionth American. Johnson & Johnson and Gerber Products , two major
advertisers of baby products, are sponsoring campaigns celebrating the 300
millionth American, using television commercials, print ads, online ads and
in-store promotions.

Is it a risk or is it clever targeted marketing?

''We took the perspective that we were going to approach it in an honorary
fashion, and that's what we've done,'' said Terry Boylan, a spokeswoman for
Gerber in Parsippany, N.J.

''This is simply a part of the tradition we have of celebrating with consumers
and being there for these kinds of milestones,'' she added.

Gerber, which is owned by Novartis, began running print ads last month
specifically aimed at mothers and expectant mothers; the theme is ''America is
expecting.'' The company began national broadcast and cable television
advertising in April that features landmarks across the nation like the Statue
of Liberty and the Golden Gate Bridge, and reminds Americans to ''Start healthy.
Stay healthy.'' The campaign was created by the New York office of the agency
now known as Draft FCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Gerber has also developed a special Web site, www.gerber300.com, that offers a
sweepstakes tied to the birth of the 300 millionth American and allows visitors
to upload baby pictures for a huge baby ''quilt'' of American faces.

''We've already had 150,000 visits to that special Web page and it is increasing
as we get closer to the date,'' Ms. Boylan said before the milestone was
reached.

Johnson & Johnson has also been sponsoring a promotion online as well as a blog
for mothers called ''MOMformation,'' which will serve as a source for mothers.

The blog will not carry advertising and will carry only limited brand mentions
of Johnson & Johnson, said Debra Bass, baby group product director in Skillman,
N.J.

Starting on Nov. 4, Johnson & Johnson will sponsor a promotion at 1,000 Wal-Mart
stores. Ogilvy & Mather Promotion created the campaign.

''We really just wanted to celebrate this moment in history and let moms know
that we'll continue to be there for them,'' Ms. Bass said.

For Johnson & Johnson, Ms. Bass said, No. 300 Million presented the company with
an opportunity to give mothers a portrait of mothering today compared with 40
years ago when the population reached 200 million.

Johnson & Johnson conducted an online survey of 800 mothers from the 1960's and
new mothers today and is using the results in a public relations campaign.

Ms. Bass said it did not matter to her company who the 300 millionth American
was, and Ms. Boylan at Gerber echoed that.

But Mr. Francese advised that it was ''statistically unlikely'' he or she would
in fact be an immigrant.

The United States has far more births every day than immigrants entering the
country, he said, and therefore it was more likely that the 300 millionth
American was a newborn.

The United States has been experiencing about four million births a year and
immigration of about one million, including estimates for illegal immigrants,
Mr. Francese said.

Even if an immigrant was the 300 millionth American, Mr. Francese said the
promotions make good business sense because the United States is in the midst of
a baby boom.

The 4.12 million births in the country last year were about as many as occurred
during the height of the baby boom, in 1957-58.

''Four million births a year generates enormous economic activity and an
explosion of spending on things like car seats, clothing, personal care items,
toys,'' Mr. Francese said.

And pizza? That is the hope of a national pizza chain, Papa John's, which wants
to welcome the 300 millionth American with what it is cheekily calling ''a
special delivery'' -- a free pizza each week for a year for the ''proud papa''
of the new arrival.

''We did assume'' the milestone would be achieved by a newborn rather than, say,
an adult immigrant, said Chris Sternberg, a senior vice president at Papa John's
Pizza in Louisville, Ky. ''If it's not a newborn, that's fine,'' he added. ''We
would still honor that commitment.''

Asked how Papa John's intended to identify the 300 millionth American when the
Census Bureau and other officials did not do so, Mr. Sternberg said: ''You raise
a good question. The government not identifying the person makes it a little
complicated.''

The company will consider claims submitted by consumers, he added, for instance,
those who can prove their babies were born at the moment the Census Bureau
estimated the 300 million figure was reached, which was 7:46 a.m. last Tuesday.

For the other 299,999,999 Americans, Papa John's has another offer: anyone who
buys a large cheese pizza at regular prices on the company's Web site
(papajohns.com) through Oct. 31 will get up to five toppings free.

Mr. Francese said he thought that campaigns tied to the 300 millionth American
were ''not a big risk at all.'' That is because new parents generally have a
mind-set different from that of the general population, he said. ''They are by
nature much more optimistic. They are looking to the future and they are
dreaming every day of the bright futures their children are going to have.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Johnson & Johnson and Gerber ads about the population
milestone.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 24, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

At U.S. Borders, Laptops Have No Right to Privacy

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 811 words


A LOT of business travelers are walking around with laptops that contain private
corporate information that their employers really do not want outsiders to see.

Until recently, their biggest concern was that someone might steal the laptop.
But now there's a new worry -- that the laptop will be seized or its contents
scrutinized at United States customs and immigration checkpoints upon entering
the United States from abroad.

Although much of the evidence for the confiscations remains anecdotal, it's a
hot topic this week among more than 1,000 corporate travel managers and travel
industry officials meeting in Barcelona at a conference of the Association of
Corporate Travel Executives.

Last week, an informal survey by the association, which has about 2,500 members
worldwide, indicated that almost 90 percent of its members were not aware that
customs officials have the authority to scrutinize the contents of travelers'
laptops and even confiscate laptops for a period of time, without giving a
reason.

''One member who responded to our survey said she has been waiting for a year to
get her laptop and its contents back,'' said Susan Gurley, the group's executive
director. ''She said it was randomly seized. And since she hasn't been arrested,
I assume she was just a regular business traveler, not a criminal.''

Appeals are under way in some cases, but the law is clear. ''They don't need
probable cause to perform these searches under the current law. They can do it
without suspicion or without really revealing their motivations,'' said Tim
Kane, a Washington lawyer who is researching the matter for corporate clients.

In some cases, random inspections of laptops have yielded evidence of possession
of child pornography. Laptops may be scrutinized and subject to a ''forensic
analysis'' under the so-called border search exemption, which allows searches of
people entering the United States and their possessions ''without probable
cause, reasonable suspicion or a warrant,'' a federal court ruled in July. In
that case, a man's laptop was found to have child pornography images on its hard
drive.

No one is defending criminal possession of child pornography or even suggesting
that the government has ''nefarious'' intent in conducting random searches of a
traveler's laptop, Ms. Gurley said.

''But it appears from information we have that agents have a lot of discretion
in doing these searches, and that there's a whole spectrum of reasons for doing
them,'' she added.

The association is asking the government for better guidelines so corporate
policies on traveling with proprietary information can be re-evaluated. It is
also asking whether corporations need to cut back on proprietary data that
travelers carry.

''We need to be able to better inform our business travelers what the processes
are if their laptops and data are seized -- what happens to it, how do you get
it back,'' Ms. Gurley said.

She added: ''The issue is what happens to the proprietary business information
that might be on a laptop. Is information copied? Is it returned? We understand
that the U.S. government needs to protect its borders. But we want to have
transparent information so business travelers know what to do. Should they leave
business proprietary information at home?''

Besides the possibility for misuse of proprietary information, travel executives
are also concerned that a seized computer, and the information it holds, is
unavailable to its owner for a time. One remedy some companies are considering
is telling travelers coming back into the country with sensitive information to
encrypt it and e-mail it to themselves, which at least protects access to the
data, if not its privacy.

In one recent case in California, a federal court went against current trends,
ruling that laptop searches were a serious invasion of privacy. ''People keep
all sorts of personal information on computers,'' the court ruling said, citing
diaries, personal letters, financial records, lawyers' confidential client
information and reporters' notes on confidential sources. That court ruled, in
that specific case, that ''the correct standard requires that any border search
of the information stored on a person's electronic storage device be based, at a
minimum, on a reasonable suspicion.''

In its informal survey last week, the association also found that 87 percent of
its members said they would be less likely to carry confidential business or
personal information on international trips now that they were aware of how
easily laptop contents could be searched.

''We are telling our members that they should prepare for the eventuality that
this could happen and they have to think more about how they handle proprietary
information,'' Ms. Gurley said. ''Potentially, this is going to have a real
effect on how international business is conducted.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Young Woman Fears Deportation, and Mutilation

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1267 words


Adama Bah's schoolmates were jubilant when she returned to 10th grade at
Heritage High School in Manhattan in May 2005 after six weeks in a distant
juvenile detention center. Her release put to rest the federal government's
unexplained assertion that Adama, a popular 16-year-old who wore jeans under her
Islamic garb, was a potential suicide bomber.

But a year and a half later, with many of her friends planning proms and
applying to college, Ms. Bah, now 18, was still wearing an electronic ankle
bracelet and tethered to a 10 p.m. government curfew, restrictions that were
conditions of her release. And she was still facing deportation to Guinea, where
she has not lived since she was 2.

Today, at a closed hearing in Manhattan's federal building, she will plead for
political asylum from Guinea's entrenched practice of female genital mutilation,
which has marked all the women in her extended family, including her mother. An
immigration judge could decide her fate on the spot.

''I'm worried about being sent back,'' Ms. Bah said on Tuesday in her first
extended interview about the lasting consequences of a case that briefly became
a cause celebre in the debate over government vigilance and the protection of
individual liberties. ''I'm worried about being separated from my family. This
is all I have left now -- what hasn't been taken.''

Officially, she and a 16-year-old Bangladeshi girl arrested in Queens the same
day were detained solely because their childhood visas were no longer valid.
That remains the only reason Ms. Bah is in deportation proceedings, and the sole
legal basis for an order last year that released the other girl, Tashnuba
Hayder, on the condition that she leave the country immediately.

Even now, Ms. Bah says she has no idea whether her slight acquaintance with Ms.
Hayder was what caused agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to hold her
for questioning. Though a document provided by a federal agent at the time said
the F.B.I. considered the girls ''an imminent threat'' to national security, it
provided no evidence, and officials refused to discuss the matter.

''Why me?'' she asked, before her volunteer lawyers warned that a judicial order
limits what she can say about the experience. ''Nobody answers, why me?''

She has had little time to dwell on the question, however, because she has been
struggling to replace her father as the family's primary breadwinner. Her
father, a cabdriver who was arrested along with her and held on immigration
violations, stayed in detention until his deportation last month. Her mother,
illiterate and speaking little English, soon lost the family business, a trinket
stand.

But under the strictures of the government's curfew, Ms. Bah found she could not
continue her education and at the same time earn enough to feed her four younger
siblings, all American citizens. Last year, she dropped out of Heritage High,
where teachers had praised her intellectual curiosity and generous spirit, and
took up office work at Bellevue Hospital Center for $6.75 an hour.

Her income fell far short of needs. And though a few community agencies tried to
help with diapers for the youngest and trips to a food pantry, she said, the
financial crisis deepened. In the end, it was an Islamic political activist in
Maryland who came through, taking three of Ms. Bah's siblings into his home for
the summer, and paying $500 a month toward household expenses so she could
attend summer school and re-enroll in Heritage this fall.

''We were looking for other options, but nothing was working out,'' Ms. Bah
said. She added that she knew little about the politics of the activist, Mauri
Saalakhan, 53, whom she met for the first time last fall when she and her mother
stopped to pray at a downtown mosque after a session with lawyers at Hughes,
Hubbard & Reed, which is handling her asylum case without fee.

Her family's association with Mr. Saalakhan raised eyebrows this spring when he
invited her to join spectators at the trial of a Pakistani immigrant accused --
and eventually convicted -- of plotting to blow up the Herald Square subway
station in 2004. Ms. Bah, who was recognized by some reporters in the courtroom,
said later that she went out of curiosity because people told her that the young
man's case was like hers. It was not, she said, and when she realized that, she
did not go back.

Mainstream Islamic groups have looked askance at her family's link to Mr.
Saalakhan, an African-American who often accuses such groups of timidity, and
whose criticism of government policies dates to a youthful stint with the Black
Panthers. But, she said, ''He's somebody who stepped up and helped'' when others
seemed afraid or only offered services like counseling instead of money to pay
the rent.

For his part, Mr. Saalakhan says he is ''a provocateur for truth and justice,''
who loves America and has police officers in his family. He was happy to have
Ms. Bah's siblings Mohamed, 14, Mariama, 12, and Abdoul, 8, join him, his wife
and teenage daughter for the summer near Washington, where he directs the Peace
and Justice Foundation, ''a grass-roots human rights organization.''

''What our government has put this family through is unconscionable,'' he said.

But the volunteer lawyers who took over Ms. Bah's asylum case last fall are
leery of any effort to make her emblematic of larger issues, when government
lawyers are raising no national security questions.

''Right now all we have is a straightforward asylum claim,'' said Bryan Lonegan,
a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society's immigration unit who is advising Hughes,
Hubbard lawyers on the case. ''This is a life and death situation for her.''

The petition draws a grim picture of what she would face in Guinea as a young
woman with intact genitalia who opposes the painful and dangerous practice of
female genital mutilation.

In Guinea, ''If a girl's genitals are not mutilated, she is considered dirty,
repulsive, unfit for marriage and motherhood, and devoid of morals and monetary
value,'' an expert, Hanny Lightfoot-Klein, wrote in an affidavit. Male relatives
consider themselves dishonored, and will beat her until she submits, the
affidavit added. ''Elder women perform the procedure on dimly lit floors, with
dull kitchen knives, glass shards, scissors or razor blades,'' the affidavit
said.

Ms. Bah's mother, Aissatou Dalanda Bah, who has separately applied for asylum,
had her clitoris excised by her grandmother with a kitchen knife when she was
about 10, the court papers said. Later, she watched helplessly as one of Adama's
cousins bled to death from the procedure.

For Ms. Bah, who grew up absorbing American values and believing she was a legal
immigrant, the prospect is terrifying and unreal. Genital mutilation ''has
nothing to do with my religion,'' she said. ''You can't just circumcise a woman
against her will, to take away her pleasure. That's my right as a woman.'' Her
fear has become one more part of a day-to-day struggle to hold the family
together, she said, as she repeatedly interrupted the interview to respond to
her youngest brother, Saeed, 2.

''It's hard to concentrate in school,'' she said, explaining that she has missed
many days this fall tending to the needs of her siblings, who now get public
aid.

''In front of people,'' she added, ''you have to be this happy person, even
though inside, it hurts.'' At night, alone, she said, she allows herself to cry
when she thinks about her family's collapse, and about her judge: ''Somebody
who's meeting me once, and making a decision for my lifetime.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adama Bah, 18, is facing deportation to Guinea, where she has
not lived since she was 2, and where female mutilation is an entrenched
practice. A judge could decide her status today. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping Shops to Grow After the Banks Say No

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED.

This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address:
homefront@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 721 words


FROM experienced businesswoman in Paraguay to loan shark's debtor in New York.

That was the route that Carmen Valdez traveled in an early stage of her effort
to build in Queens the kind of beauty salon business she owned in her native
country before immigrating to the United States 15 years ago.

It is a route not surprising in immigrant communities in America, where
small-scale business owners and entrepreneurs are often denied loans by banks
and other mainstream institutions worried about the financial soundness of the
businesses and those behind them, experts on such communities say.

A patron of her first Queens salon referred Ms. Valdez to a man who lent her
$3,500, at a usurious interest rate -- 10 percent a month. She knew the terms
were unfair but needed the money, she said, to take advantage of an opportunity
a decade ago to expand that salon -- she now has two -- and thought she had no
other options.

Three banks had refused to give her a loan -- ''they said I didn't have a credit
history,'' she recalled in a recent interview -- and she did not know at the
time that there were government agencies and nonprofit groups that could have
provided her with a loan at a fraction of the cost, or helped her seek one.

Ms. Valdez, 52, immigrated to the United States from Paraguay in 1991 with her
husband and three children because ''we wanted a good education for the
children,'' she said. In Asuncion, the Paraguayan capital, she owned three
beauty salons and a school that taught hair care, skin care and other
salon-related work skills.

She still owns the salons and school in Asuncion, she said, but leases them out,
using the rental income to maintain them and to help support relatives in
Paraguay.

Six months after arriving in Queens, Ms. Valdez, who lives in Woodside, and two
other women from Paraguay invested $4,000 each to open a small hair salon, which
they called Parisien, in a former butcher shop in nearby Sunnyside. Immigrants
from Central and South America are numerous in both areas.

Several years later, and at that point the sole owner, Ms. Valdez saw a chance
to add nail care and massage services when the store next door became vacant.
''I needed $7,000 and I had $3,500,'' she said. The monthly 10 percent interest
on the one-year loan amounted to more than the principal, she said, and ''I've
heard about people paying 20 percent a month.''

Laine Rolong, a community relations specialist with Accion New York, which
provides business loans of $500 to $50,000 to people whose credit histories, or
lack thereof, prompt rejections by banks, said that Ms. Valdez's story was not
unique.

She said a main complaint Accion New York receives from community organizations
regarding immigrant business owners ''is that a lot of people go to informal
lenders because they do not see any option.'' Measuring the extent of such
activity is difficult, she said, because many who borrow from loan sharks do not
want to talk about it.

Very often, she said, the lender in such a transaction is from the same
community as the borrower.

Accion New York, a nonprofit organization, says its clients are ''95 percent
minority, almost all immigrants and 40 percent women, all groups who face severe
disadvantages toward gaining access to credit.'' (Other experts note that
nonimmigrant minority borrowers often face the same disadvantages.)

The organization charges annual interest of 10.99 percent to 17.99 percent,
slightly higher than the roughly 10 to 14 percent that banks are generally
charging these days, but a difference that the group needs to remain viable,
said a spokeswoman, Laura Kozien. She said that the organization had a 96
percent repayment rate, and that since its founding in 1991, it had made 9,100
loans totaling $62 million.

Three of those loans have gone to Ms. Valdez, who learned about the group after
entering into her 10-percent-a-month deal.

One loan, for $7,000 in the 1990s, went partly to upgrade her first salon. Two
later loans, totaling $36,000, have helped finance her second salon, also called
Parisien, which she opened in April in Woodside, as well as the creation of a
school -- to open shortly in attached space -- offering courses in salon work
skills.

Having a school in New York, Ms. Valdez said, is something ''I always had in
mind.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carmen Valdez at Parisien, a beauty salon in Queens. She once
took out a loan at interest of 10 percent a month because she needed the money
to expand her business. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Fence Campaign

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 742 words


President Bush signed a bill to authorize a 700-mile border fence last week,
thus enshrining into federal law a key part of the Republicans' midterm election
strategy. The party of the Iraq war and family values desperately needs you to
forget about dead soldiers and randy congressmen, and to think instead about the
bad things immigrants will do to us if we don't wall them out. Hence the fence,
and the ad campaigns around it.

Across the country, candidates are trying to stir up a voter frenzy using
immigrants for bait. They accuse their opponents of being amnesty-loving
fence-haters, and offer themselves as jut-jawed defenders of the homeland
because they want the fence. But the fence is the product of a can't-do,
won't-do approach to a serious national problem. And the ads are built on a
foundation of lies:

Lie No. 1: We're building a 700-mile fence. The bill signed by Mr. Bush includes
no money for fence building. Congress has authorized $1.2 billion as a down
payment for sealing the border, but that money is also meant for roads,
electronic sensors and other security tactics preferred by the Department of
Homeland Security, which doesn't want a 700-mile fence. Indian tribes, members
of Congress and local leaders will also have considerable say in where to put
the fence, which could cost anywhere from $2 billion to $9 billion, depending on
whose estimates you believe.

''It's one thing to authorize. It's another thing to actually appropriate the
money and do it,'' said Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican. ''I'm not sure
that's the most practical use of that money.''

Lie No. 2: A fence will help. A 700-mile fence, if it works, will only drive
immigrants to other parts of the 2,000-mile border. In parts of the trackless
Southwest, building the fence will require building new roads. Who uses roads?
Immigrants and smugglers. And no fence will do anything about the roughly 40
percent of illegal immigrants who enter legally and overstay their visas.

Lie No. 3: The Senate's alternative bill was weak, and its supporters favored
amnesty. In May, the Senate passed a bill that had a fence. Not only that, it
had money for a fence. It also included tough measures for cracking down on
illegal hiring. It demanded that illegal immigrants get right with the law by
paying fines and taxes, learning English and getting to the back of the
citizenship line. It went overboard in some ways, weakening legal protections
for immigrants and hindering judicial oversight. But it went far beyond the
fence-only approach. Its shortcomings and differences with the House bill might
have been worked out in negotiations over the summer. But instead, House
Republican leaders held months of hearings to attack the Senate bill. And all we
were left with was the fence.

Will the Republican strategy work? We'll know next week, but we hold out hope
that hard-line candidates are misreading the electorate. Voters all over are
concerned about immigration, of course, but many polls have repeatedly shown
that they warm to reasonable solutions and not to stridency. They can recognize
the difference between the marauding army of fence-jumpers they see in
commercials and the immigrants who have become their neighbors, co-workers,
customers and friends. Citizen anger cuts both ways, and many voters, Latinos in
particular, say they are put off by the Republican hysteria.

Poll results in some races suggest that xenophobia and voter deception are not
necessarily a ticket to victory. In Arizona, Randy Graf, a Republican, is
running for Congress as a single-issue candidate focused on border security,
Minuteman-style. He has said that if his strident argument won't fly in his
prickly border state, it might not fly anywhere. He is trailing Gabrielle
Giffords, a moderate Democrat who supports the comprehensive approach to
immigration reform endorsed by the Senate and -- once upon a time -- by
President Bush.

Whatever happens in November, Congress will eventually have to deal with the 12
million illegal immigrants unaffected by the fence, and the future flow of
immigrant workers. That means tackling ''amnesty'' directly. The sad thing is
that Democrats and moderate Republicans -- and Mr. Bush -- already did this, and
settled on an approach that is both tough and smart.

But now is the time for stirring up voters, and the pliant Mr. Bush has decided
to go along, adding his signature to the shortsighted politics of fear.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Agent Charged In Smuggling Of Cubans

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 194 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 31


An agent for baseball players illegally smuggled Cuban players into the United
States, eventually shipping them to California in hopes that they would be
signed by major league teams, federal immigration officials said Tuesday.

The agent, Gus Dominguez, is charged with paying four aides to transport the
athletes and other Cubans to the United States in two trips.

Dominguez, of the California-based agency Total Sports International, has
represented several Cuban baseball defectors, including the highly regarded
prospect Andy Morales, who was signed by the Yankees and later the Boston Red
Sox after fleeing Cuba six years ago, but never played in the major leagues.

Also charged in the 53-count federal indictment were Geoffrey Rodrigues, Robert
Yosvany Hernandez, Ramon Batista and Guillermo Valdez.

''Though this case involves a Beverly Hills sports agent and talented baseball
players, it is remarkably similar to the human smuggling operations that I.C.E.
encounters every day,'' Julie Myers, an assistant secretary of the United States
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in a statement.

There was no immediate comment from Total Sports or Dominguez.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Clutches Of Poverty, Not Despair But Survival

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 607 words


''Romantico'' is a sympathetic portrait of Carmelo Muniz Sanchez, an illegal
Mexican immigrant living in San Francisco who, after scuffling for three years
as a mariachi musician, returns home to care for his ailing mother.

Chubby, careworn and pushing 60, Mr. Sanchez is presented as a noble soul from a
humble background, selected from the ranks of countless illegal immigrants to
represent a struggling shadow population that is all but invisible in the United
States.

When first glimpsed, he is working with his musical partner and old friend
Arturo Arias, playing and singing mariachi songs (reasonably well) in bars and
restaurants in the Mission District. During his time in America, he has earned
enough to keep sending desperately needed money to his impoverished family in
Salvatierra, a small Mexican city more than a thousand miles south of the
border.

But after learning of the declining health of his mother, who has lost both legs
to diabetes, Mr. Sanchez makes the painful decision to go back. Although he will
be reunited with his mother; his wife, Carmela; and their daughters, Lupe and
Juanita, the family will be much the poorer for his return. And because of the
arduousness of the border crossing for a man of his age and physical condition,
there may be no going back to the United States.

Mr. Sanchez's story, told largely in his own words, is a case study of a life
defined by poverty. He recalls his original border crossing, which cost $1,200
in borrowed money, and his journey to Ciudad Juarez and across the Rio Grande
into Texas to a safe house for illegal immigrants. Eventually transported to Los
Angeles, he wound up homeless, with only $10 in his pocket.

Prepared to go back to Mexico, he called home, and his wife suggested that he
call Mr. Arias, who she heard was making a living as a musician in San
Francisco. Mr. Arias invited him to stay with him in the tiny, drab apartment he
shared with half a dozen others.

Because it didn't originate as a story of reverse immigration (Mr. Sanchez
didn't decide to return to Mexico until the movie was a week into production),
this modest, unassuming documentary, directed by Mark Becker, feels more like a
mosaic than a narrative film with a clearly defined continuity.

Once back in Salvatierra, Mr. Sanchez ekes out a living selling ''snow''
(sweetened, flavored crushed ice) from a cart he pedals on the street. Before
long, Mr. Arias also returns to Salvatierra, and they team up again. But the few
pesos they earn playing in local bars patronized by prostitutes and their
clients are a pittance compared to what they made in the United States, and Mr.
Arias is hospitalized for alcoholism. Mr. Sanchez wants to give his youngest
daughter a quinceanera (a Mexican girl's traditional coming-out party when she
turns 15) but can afford only a small dinner. Still he perseveres.

''Romantico'' shows how grinding poverty instills a fatalistic view of life in
which good fortune is dependent on prayers and miracles. In a revealing
confession, Mr. Sanchez recalls a personal turning point when, after 11 years of
misery and domestic strife, a drop of holy water restored his spirit. As
''Romantico'' draws to an end, and he vows to ''just keep going,'' the strength
of that spirit remains undiminished.

Romantico
Opens today in Manhattan.

Produced, directed and edited by Mark Becker; in Spanish and English, with
English subtitles; director of photography, Mr. Becker; music by Raz Mesinai;
released by Kino International. At the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas,
at Third Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 80 minutes. This film is not
rated.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carmelo Muniz Sanchez, an illegal immigrant who ekes out a
living as a mariachi musician but returns to his impoverished family in Mexico.
(Photo by Kino International)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 5, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Border Dividing Arizona

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 127 words


I applaud Joseph Lelyveld's (Oct. 15) provocative look at the crossroads between
immigration and political positioning.Not a day passes in Tijuana when I do not
speak with a Mexican family fearful over the deportation of a loved one and the
financial ruin it would incur. In reading Lelyveld's article, Ifound myself both
fascinated and disgusted at the way in which politicians use fear and paranoia
to shape a political platform devoid of compassion for the poor. However, it was
refreshing to see a journalist acknowledge the too-often-forgotten human factor
in this debate and how most Americans support an immigration policy that
respects the dignity of the people, regardless of their country of origin.

TIMOTHY BROWNE COLLIER

Tijuana, Baja California, Mexic

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Victorious Democrats Vow Cooperative Approach on Taxes and Economy

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Edmund L. Andrews contributed
reporting from Washington and David Leonhardt, Eduardo Porter and Alex Berenson
contributed from New York.

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Talking About Common
Ground; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2036 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8


Maybe Washington can get something done after all.

Democrats may have won big on Tuesday, but the lawmakers who will soon oversee
tax, trade and economic issues on Capitol Hill are trying not to sound
confrontational -- or even to crow.

Instead they are pledging to seek common ground with the White House and
Congressional Republicans, arguing -- admittedly in the face of skepticism --
that divided government in Washington does not have to be a recipe for fights or
gridlock.

On Wednesday, as the Democrats woke up to a huge victory at the polls, they were
starting to talk about some issues on trade, taxes and regulations on which they
and their longtime adversaries might even agree.

Among these were what Republicans and Democrats alike said were a mutual
interest in keeping taxes from rising on middle-class families, tax relief in
energy and education and providing regulatory relief for small business.

Many analysts said that the possibility of such agreement was not out of the
question. Both parties, they said, were aware of voter disgust with partisan
confrontations.

In recent months, business interests, anticipating solid Democratic gains, have
also been pouring millions of dollars into Democratic campaigns with the hope
and expectation that the new Congressional leadership would support some of
their agenda.

Still, many lawmakers, lobbyists and Congressional aides said that the emerging
divide between the White House and Congress would make it hard to achieve
agreements on certain issues like trade and health care.

The top Democrats in the House and Senate tax-writing committees said they would
not try to repeal the tax cuts enacted in 2001. They also called on President
Bush to show what they said would be similar good faith and not resubmit his
proposals for Social Security personal savings accounts.

On the issues of greatest importance to businesses -- taxes, trade, immigration
and health care -- lawmakers expect there will be battles not only between
Republicans and Democrats but within the parties as well.

With the loss of several moderate Republicans in the election, the party is
expected to have an even more conservative cast in the House and Senate, even
though some Republicans want the party to be more centrist.

At the same time, a quarter of the House Democrats in the next Congress are from
districts that voted for Mr. Bush just two years ago, including more than half
of the incoming class. These members could end up in disputes with many of the
new committee heads from the party's liberal wing as well as Representative
Nancy Pelosi of California, who is expected to become the House speaker next
year.

Democrats vowed to try to work with Republicans, in part by limiting their
ambitions.

Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the probable next chairman of the
tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said shortly before the election that he
hoped to forge an agreement with the Republicans in limiting the growing reach
of the alternative minimum tax, which has started to hit many middle-class
Americans who claim deductions for state taxes and other expenses.

Mr. Rangel said he would also seek to avoid a confrontation that would pit
Republicans who want to extend tax breaks on large estates and investment income
beyond their scheduled expiration in 2010 against Democrats who want to rescind
those measures ahead of time.

''Why should we be talking now about 2010?'' Mr. Rangel said. ''I'm 76 years
old, and I don't buy green bananas.''

Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, who could soon become the head of
the Financial Services Committee, said he and other Democrats who have been
advising Ms. Pelosi are planning to propose a ''grand bargain'' with business
interests.

If business groups support the Democrats' efforts to increase the minimum wage,
extend student loans and expand affordable housing programs, Mr. Frank said,
then the Democrats would support efforts to reduce trade barriers and burdensome
regulation.

''We are liberal internationalists,'' Mr. Frank said. ''Businesses know they
have an interest in working with us.''

Representative John D. Dingell, who seems likely to once again head the Energy
and Commerce Committee, said he intended to focus on an energy bill aimed at
making America less dependent on foreign oil. And he plans to hold hearings on
what he considers unfair trade practices that hurt American industries and
workers.

Mr. Dingell, who began serving in the House in 1955 and is the chamber's senior
member, said he intended to work with Republicans in shaping legislation because
''it's best to legislate from the middle.''

But he also said that ''it won't be the easiest task because the far right has
controlled the House and I'm not sure how we can emancipate the Republican Party
and work with them.''

One big winner from the election is organized labor, which has been increasingly
marginalized in Washington in recent years and now has some important allies in
leadership positions.

Following is a closer look at the election's impact on major areas of interest
to business and investors:

Taxes

  The two Democratic lawmakers likely to lead the tax-writing committees in
Congress prefer to work with Republicans and the Bush administration on limited
tax revisions agreeable to both sides. But some of their priorities could lead
to fights, they acknowledge.

''We have to build up a sense of trust between Republicans and Democrats,'' Mr.
Rangel said. ''After all, we only have two years as Democrats to prove that the
people made the right choice. On any of the big tax items, it's politically
dangerous if it's not done in a bipartisan way.''

Both Mr. Rangel and Senator Max Baucus of Montana, who would become chairman of
the Senate Finance Committee if Democrats take control of that body, said
Democrats would be making a mistake to pursue rescinding the income tax cuts
enacted by Congress in 2001 and expiring in 2010.

Mr. Rangel said that his goal for a retreat among Democrats and Republicans
would be to have them meet away from the Capitol and hear from experts,
including perhaps Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the former
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin.

Mr. Rubin, however, is known as a ''deficit hawk'' and has advocated an approach
to cutting the federal deficit that would include both spending cuts and tax
increases, at least for the wealthy.

Mr. Rangel and Mr. Baucus said that one target by Democrats would be to revise
what is known as the alternative minimum tax, which imposes taxes on taxpayers
that take large deductions and reduce their tax rate below a certain ceiling.

But reducing that tax could involve a loss of hundreds of millions of dollars in
revenue and Democrats are loath to propose alternative ways of raising the
money.

Trade

  Democrats and Republicans agree that the new Congress is likely to be less
hospitable to trade deals negotiated by the Bush administration, since any such
deals are likely to involve cuts in tariffs and subsidies that could cost
manufacturing jobs.

The main issue would be a possible global trade agreement negotiated by the
World Trade Organization. Major business organizations support such a deal but
farm groups are ready to oppose anything that does not require tariff and
subsidy reductions by America's trading partners.

Any deal would have to be approved by next June 30, when President Bush's legal
authority to get a single up-or-down vote on any such deal expires. Some experts
hope to negotiate a deal by February or March and then get a Congressional vote,
but the skeptics outnumber the optimists.

''If the administration comes through with a trade deal in March, it will be
impossible to do it by July 1,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, a
Republican who has been, and still could be, chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee. ''After it expires, it's not going to be renewed until we get a new
president.''

Trade officials said that discussions have begun on reviving the global trade
talks, but there is no evidence that Europeans and other countries like India,
Indonesia and Brazil are willing to cut their farm tariffs dramatically. In
turn, there is no sign that the Bush administration would cut American farm
subsidies below $22 billion.

Governance

  A small but growing movement has begun pushing to reduce the cost of the
landmark business law, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, that was adopted in 2002 in
response to a raft of corporate scandals.

The law's most ardent supporter, Senator Paul Sarbanes of Maryland, is retiring
from the Senate this year, and other senior Democrats on the Senate Banking
Committee, including Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, have recently
suggested that it should be re-examined to reduce what they see as some of its
most burdensome requirements.

Mr. Frank said he also intended to once again sponsor legislation that would
give shareholders the right to vote on the pay packages of senior executives.
That measure has been opposed by administration officials and Republican
lawmakers.

Energy

  A Democratic House is likely to stall two major Republican efforts sought by
oil companies: opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas
drilling and lifting a 20-year moratorium on drilling in new areas along the
Outer Continental Shelf.

Industry groups are hoping they may be able to win support for a more limited
Senate bill opening up some coastal areas to drilling during a lame-duck session
of Congress with Republicans still in control.

Democrats are all but certain to attack many of the tax breaks and other
incentives for oil and gas producers.

The bigger question is what Democratic leaders will try to accomplish. They will
almost certainly push for more government support of alternative fuels, hybrid
cars and new infrastructure -- from pipelines to pumps -- to distribute new
fuels.

Pharmaceuticals

  Even as the market advanced yesterday, drug stocks fell sharply in a sign of
Wall Street concern that Democrats would try to change the Medicare drug program
to give the government the right to negotiate directly with pharmaceutical
companies over drug prices.

Companies may also face closer federal scrutiny of their marketing practices,
including so-called off-label promotion of drugs for conditions for which they
have not been approved.

Drug makers have enjoyed a relatively close relationship with Republican leaders
in the House, said Catherine Bennett, a former Pfizer vice president who is now
a partner at the Venable law firm in Washington.

''Off-label marketing of drugs, patent litigation settlements, and drug safety
will all be on the table, something that pharma companies have not had to worry
about under a Republican-controlled House,'' she said.

Immigration

  Washington may sink into partisan fighting in the next two years. But there is
one piece of proposed legislation that will have a better chance of becoming law
after Republicans surrender control of the House.

''The chances of comprehensive immigration reform being enacted in the next
Congress go up significantly,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of the
National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration lobby group in Washington. ''It
might be one of the few issues in the next Congress that could see the light of
day on a bipartisan basis.''

Despite support from Mr. Bush, Republican resistance in the House managed to
block a broad immigration reform package passed by the Senate in the summer. The
bill included tougher border security provisions, a new immigrant guest-worker
program and a path for millions of illegal immigrants to attain legal status.

Instead, the House passed a bill to build a 700-mile fence along the Mexican
border, a proposal that passed the Senate in September and was signed into law
last month by Mr. Bush. The resistance by a hard-core group of Republicans
opposed to easing restrictions to immigration spread as opposition to illegal
immigration became a rallying force in Republican campaigns throughout the
summer.

But the anti-immigrant fervor did not seem to work on Tuesday. Many Republicans
who campaigned on a hard anti-immigrant platform lost.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In line to be new committee chairmen are Barney Frank, left,
Financial Services
John D. Dingell, center, Energy and Commerce
and Charles B. Rangel, Ways and Means. (Photos by From left, Neal
Hamberg/Bloomberg News
Yuri Gripas/Associated Press
 Stephan Savoia/Associated Press)(pg. C1)Drawings (pg. C14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Facing Reality on Europe's Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID C. UNGER

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 642 words


''Write an article!'' came the shout as I left a room full of German women
preparing the food for their weekly breakfast discussion meeting in the Rollberg
housing project in the Neukolln section of Berlin.

They were Germans now, but most had been born elsewhere, generally in Muslim
countries. One wore a head scarf, the others did not. The youngest looked about
19. The oldest might have been a grandmother.

These women illustrated a reality finally accepted by some of Germany's most
conservative politicians -- there is no reason someone cannot be German and
Muslim at the same time. In America, that idea would be unremarkable. In
Germany, with its tragic history of exclusive nationalism and race-based
citizenship, it is an intellectual revolution.

The moving spirit behind these meetings was Ayten Kose, an infectiously
enthusiastic woman of Turkish descent, who relished telling a visitor what it
had taken to make this project a reality.

The weekly breakfasts were among the activities of an outreach program sponsored
by the local government and the European Union. One goal is to help the
project's residents connect with one another and with local public services.
That, in turn, is meant to reduce the sense of isolation many immigrants feel
from the larger society they live in and from its political institutions.

Through this program, residents had gotten help in ridding public rooms in the
housing project of the intimidating young toughs who hung out there,
discouraging women from leaving their apartments. That reclaimed space became
home to the Friday breakfast gatherings, where the women compared notes on
problems from domestic violence to developments in Afghanistan, Gaza and Iraq.

It took a long time for Germany's leaders to wake up to the fact that millions
of foreign-born or foreign-descended residents -- people who originally arrived
as guest workers or asylum seekers, along with their German-born children and
grandchildren -- intend to live their lives in Germany with no plans of
returning to their ancestral homelands.

More than three million of these new Germans are Muslims -- nearly two million
from Turkey, with most of the rest from Bosnia, Albania, the Arab world,
Pakistan and Iran.

It is in Germany's interest to help these newcomers succeed and prosper, by
helping them improve their German language skills, preparing them for better
jobs and smoothing their path to German citizenship. That lessens the risk of
their slipping into an underground world of isolation, joblessness and despair,
where they might fall prey to terrorist recruiters.

The new realism of its politicians is welcome, but Germany has a long way to go.
Immigrants still face violent attacks from xenophobic neighbors and the
discriminatory attitudes and practices of some local governments. Despite recent
reforms, it remains too difficult for many long-time residents to become
citizens.

Yet, despite its shortcomings, Germany's new approach contrasts favorably with
that of neighboring France -- the home of Western Europe's largest and perhaps
least integrated Muslim population.

French policies have been confounded, paradoxically, by the country's militantly
integrationist official ideology. The well-meaning insistence that all French
citizens are simply French has led to decades of willfully ignoring the
particular needs and diverse cultures of distinctive segments of the French
population.

The poor and unemployed young men who burned cars in suburban neighborhoods last
fall weren't protesting the noble French ideal ofegalite. They were protesting
the daily humiliation of coping with police officers, politicians and employers
who have no real idea of what their lives are like and no desire to find out. It
is that kind of estrangement that German programs like the one in Neukolln are
trying to avoid.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, a Love Story

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1623 words


WHEN Kenneth Harrell Jr., an Assemblies of God minister in South Carolina,
invited Gricelda Molina to join his Spanish ministry in 2000, it didn't take him
long to realize he had found the woman he had been waiting for. On the telephone
and during romantic strolls they talked about their goals, their commitment to
God and how many children each would like to have. Six months flew by, and he
asked her to marry him.

''She's a beautiful woman with a beautiful spirit, very gentle, very sincere,''
Mr. Harrell said. But Ms. Molina, a factory worker, was also an undocumented
immigrant from Honduras, who had crossed into the United States twice, having
once been deported. Mr. Harrell, the pastor of Airport Assembly of God church in
West Columbia, said he was not too concerned. ''Whatever came, we would walk
through this path together,'' he said.

Mr. Harrell and Ms. Molina, both 35, married in 2001, in a large wedding
attended by family from both sides and blessed by pastors in English and
Spanish. But the Harrells no longer live together, not because of divorce, but
because Mrs. Harrell, now the mother of two sons and four months pregnant with
their third child, has been deported. She had applied for legal residency, or a
green card, with her new husband as her sponsor, Mr. Harrell said, but she was
sent back to Honduras 20 months ago because of her illegal entries and told she
would have to wait 10 years to try again.

''Illegals are pouring over the border,'' said Mr. Harrell, who has visited his
family five times. ''We meet them, we fall in love with them, we marry them. And
then the government tears your family apart, and they take no responsibility for
letting them in, in the first place.''

Falling in love and marching toward marriage is not always easy, but a
particular brand of heartache and hardship can await when one of the partners is
in this country illegally. The uncertainty of such a union has only been
heightened by the national debate over illegal immigration. Whether the new
Democratic leadership in Congress will help people like the Harrells remains to
be seen.

It is hard to quantify how many people find themselves in Mr. Harrell's
situation, but with stepped-up enforcement in recent years, deportations have
increased, and so have fears of losing a loved one in that way. (There were
168,310 removals in 2005, compared with 108,000 in 2000, immigration officials
said.)

And that is only one byproduct of love between two people with such uneven
places in society, immigration lawyers say. Many relationships strain under the
financial burden of hiring lawyers for what can turn into years of visiting
government offices, producing pictures, tax records and other evidence of a
legitimate marriage in the quest for legalization. And while instances of
immigrants faking love for a green card are in the minority, according to
immigration officials, some couples feel pressure to marry before they are
ready, hoping that marriage will prevent a loved one's deportation.

Raul Godinez, an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles, said: ''I ask people, 'How
much do you love this person? Because immigration is going to test your
marriage.' If you don't feel it's going to be a strong marriage, I wouldn't do
it.''

Many people may still believe that obtaining legal status through marriage is
easy, because of periodic reports of marriage scams. In a three-year
investigation called Operation Newlywed Game, immigration and customs
enforcement agents caught more than 40 suspects in California for allegedly
orchestrating sham marriages between hundreds of Chinese or Vietnamese nationals
and United States citizens. But such fraud occurs in only a minority of cases,
federal officials said.

In reality, immigration lawyers said, marrying a citizen does not automatically
entitle the spouse to a green card and is only the first step in a long
bureaucratic journey. The lawyers noted that changes in the law in the last five
years have made this legalization path increasingly difficult, one worth
choosing only if true love is at stake. (Other routes include sponsorship by
immediate family members or an employer.)

The Harrells said they had no idea how difficult it could be and were shocked
when Mrs. Harrell's application for permanent residence was turned down, leaving
them only 12 days to prepare for her departure. In that time, Mr. Harrell said,
they decided that the children, now 4 and 3, would go with her. So Mr. Harrell
obtained passports for them, and the church held a farewell service.

''It was very traumatic,'' he said. ''Our whole world was crashing around us.''

In Yoro, in north central Honduras, where Mrs. Harrell and the children live
with her parents, she said the older boy constantly asks for his father,
begging, ''Let's go to my papa's house.'' She has coped with her own dejection,
too. ''I know how much work he has over there,'' she said by telephone. ''He
needs his wife.''

But even in the best of circumstances, when an immigrant enters the country
legally, couples may have to rearrange their lives and defer their dreams.

Paola Emery, a jewelry designer, and her husband, Randall Emery, a computer
consultant in Philadelphia, said they delayed having children and buying a house
for the nearly four years it took the government to complete a background check
for Mrs. Emery, who had entered the country from Colombia with a tourist visa
and applied for permanent residency after they married in 2002.

Mrs. Emery, 27, said lawyers advised them it was not wise for her to risk
trouble by visiting her close-knit family in Colombia and then trying to
re-enter this country. She said she was absent through weddings, illnesses and
even the kidnapping and rescue of an uncle.

''I felt like I was in jail,'' Mrs. Emery said.

Officials with the Citizenship and Immigration Services in the Homeland Security
Department say that delays lasting years are rare, but some immigration lawyers
say they see clients who wait three to four years for security clearance. Mrs.
Emery and her husband, 34, sued Homeland Security over the delays, and she was
finally cleared last May. By then Mr. Emery had helped form American Families
United, a group of citizens who have sponsored immediate family members for
immigration, and which advocates immigration-law change to keep families
together.

Immigration Services officials say they are not out to impede love or
immigration. Nearly 260,000 spouses of citizens received permanent residency
through marriage last year, out of 1.1 million people who became permanent
residents, according to the Immigration Services office. ''The goal is to give
people who are eligible the benefit,'' said Marie T. Sebrechts, its spokeswoman
in Southern California. She said the agency does not comment on individual
cases.

When a legal immigrant is sponsored by an American spouse, she said, the green
card can be obtained in as little as six months. But with complications like an
illegal entry, laws are not that benevolent, Ms. Sebrechts said. In those cases,
the immigrant usually must return to the home country and wait 3 to 10 years to
apply for residency, though waivers are sometimes granted.

Such obstacles are far from the minds of couples when they meet. And for some,
so is the idea to question whether the beloved feels equally in love with them.

Sharyn T. Sooho, a divorce lawyer and a founder of divorcenet.com, a Web site
for divorcing couples, said she has represented American spouses who realized
too late that the person they married was more interested in a green card than
in living happily ever after. ''They feel conflicted, used and abused,'' she
said. ''It's a quick marriage, and suddenly the person who was so sweet is
turning into a nightmare.''

But more often, said Carlina Tapia-Ruano, the president of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, couples marry before they are ready because
''there's fear that if you don't do this, somebody is going to get deported.''

Krystal Rivera, 18, a college student in Los Angeles, and her boyfriend fall
into this group. Ms. Rivera is set on marrying in April 2008, even as she
worries that it may put too much pressure on the relationship.

''I never wanted to follow the Hispanic ritual of getting married early,'' said
Ms. Rivera, a native of Los Angeles whose parents emigrated from Mexico.

She said she fell in love at 13 with a Mexican-born boy who sang in the church
choir with her. ''He started poking me, and I said 'Stop it!' '' she remembered.

Ms. Rivera is still in love with the boy, now 19, who was brought into the
country illegally by his mother when he was 12. He goes to college and wants to
become a teacher, while she hopes to become a doctor.

But for those plans to work, Ms. Rivera said, she needs to help him legalize his
status. She said she has witnessed his frustration as he dealt with employers
who didn't pay what they owed him or struggled to find better jobs than his
current one as a line cook. Because of his illegal status, he is unable to get a
driver's license or visit the brothers he left in Mexico. ''We want to be
normal,'' Ms. Rivera said.

The Harrells, too, have decided to take charge. After months of exploring how to
reunite the family and spending thousands of dollars on lawyers, Mr. Harrell has
decided to leave his small congregation, sell his house and join his wife in
Honduras. He will be a missionary for his church for a fraction of the $40,000 a
year he makes as a minister.

''I finally said: 'You know what? I don't want to spend another Christmas away
from my family,'' said Mr. Harrell, who plans to move by late December. ''We'd
still be waiting for the laws to change.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: WAITING GAME -- Four years after Paola and Randall Emery wed,
she was finally cleared for permanent residence. (Photo by Shea Roggio for The
New York Times)(pg. 1)
REUNION IN HONDURAS -- The Harrell family has been separated because she entered
the United States illegally.
 A DEFERRED LIFE -- Paola and Randall Emery put off having children until her
case was acted on. (Photo by Shea Roggio for The New York Times)(pg. 15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 17, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jurors Begin Weighing Perjury Case Against Man Who Knew Two Sept. 11 Hijackers

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 964 words


Lawyers gave closing arguments yesterday in the latest phase of a drawn-out
legal battle involving a Jordanian immigrant accused of trying to mislead a
grand jury investigating the Sept. 11 attacks.

Prosecutors say the immigrant, Osama Awadallah, who is on trial for the second
time in Federal District Court in Manhattan, lied repeatedly when he told a
grand jury in October 2001 that he did not know Khalid al-Midhar, who took part
in the attacks, and when he denied writing Mr. Midhar's name in a school
notebook.

''Mr. Awadallah didn't tell the truth over and over and over,'' said Karl
Metzner, an assistant United States attorney. Mr. Awadallah's lawyer, Jesse
Berman, countered by saying that his client never meant to give the grand jury
wrong information, and did so only after enduring 20 days of incarceration that
left him confused, frightened and paranoid.

The case began when perjury charges were filed against Mr. Awadallah five years
ago. The charges were thrown out by one judge and reinstated by an appeals
court. Mr. Awadallah's first trial, in the spring, ended in a hung jury.

Mr. Berman said that before his grand jury testimony, his client was a model of
cooperation. He readily told investigators that he knew another of the
hijackers, Nawaf al-Hazmi, and consented to searches of his apartment, car and
computer, even supplying the password: Islam.

''He went above and beyond the call,'' Mr. Berman said. ''Is this someone that's
trying to mislead a grand jury?''

The jury, made up of nine women and three men, deliberated for about an hour
late yesterday before breaking for the evening. They will resume deliberations
this morning.

Mr. Awadallah, 26, is charged with two counts of perjury and faces a maximum of
10 years in prison and then deportation if convicted.

The five-day trial was held in the same dark-paneled courtroom where, in May, a
jury became hopelessly deadlocked over Mr. Awadallah's fate, with all but one
juror favoring conviction.

Mr. Awadallah, who has been free on bail in San Diego, sat quietly throughout
yesterday's proceedings. Behind him in the sparsely filled gallery sat his older
brother, Jamal, a San Diego businessman, and their father, Ismail, a retired
halal butcher who had arrived the night before from Jordan.

As in the earlier trial, prosecutors did their best to close the distance
between ground zero, which sits just blocks from the courthouse, and the five
years since the attacks.

''He didn't just lie to a grand jury,'' Mr. Metzner said. ''He lied just a month
after the attacks, when so much was still unknown.''

Mr. Awadallah has never been accused of plotting with the terrorists or having
advance knowledge of the attacks. But Mr. Metzner told jurors that Mr.
Awadallah's lies to the grand jury, coming in the days after the attacks with
fear of more attacks permeating the air, could have sent investigators
meandering down wrong and time-consuming paths.

The government's interest in Mr. Awadallah began after investigators discovered
a scrap of paper with the name ''Osama'' and Mr. Awadallah's former telephone
number in the glove compartment of a car that Mr. Hazmi had left at Dulles
International Airport, near Washington.

At the time, Mr. Awadallah was a 21-year-old college student in San Diego, where
Mr. Hazmi and Mr. Midhar had lived until about a year before they boarded
American Airlines Flight 77, which crashed into the Pentagon.

Under questioning by the F.B.I., Mr. Awadallah said he knew Mr. Hazmi, who
worked at the same gas station and worshiped at the same mosque. He also said he
remembered an acquaintance of Mr. Hazmi and described him physically but said he
had never learned his name. When shown a picture of Khalid al-Midhar, Mr.
Awadallah claimed not to recognize him.

After two days of interviews, Mr. Awadallah was detained as a material witness
on Sept. 21, 2001, and was held in isolation at several jails.

In his first grand jury appearance nearly three weeks later, Mr. Awadallah again
denied knowing anyone named Khalid. But after a long day of testimony,
prosecutors showed him an essay booklet given to them by Mr. Awadallah's teacher
of English as a Second Language. In it, written just four days after the
terrorist attacks, was the passage: ''One of the quietest people I have met is
Nawaf. Another one, his name is Khalid.''

Mr. Awadallah at first said the booklet appeared altered, because he would not
have spelled ''Khalid'' that way. Mr. Berman said that his client realized his
mistake shortly after testifying and alerted his lawyers to it, but that
prosecutors chose not to call the grand jurors back into the room.

When Mr. Awadallah appeared again before the grand jury five days later, he
acknowledged that the handwriting was his and that he now remembered meeting Mr.
Midhar.

During the trial, Mr. Berman showed a chart of bruises on Mr. Awadallah's upper
arms and the back of his neck, which he said his client had sustained at the
hands of guards. The government has denied any mistreatment.

By the time Mr. Awadallah appeared before the grand jury, he was disoriented,
exhausted and ''freaked out,'' which is why he initially believed that the
booklet had been doctored, Mr. Berman said.

His comments underscored the notion that, though Judge Shira Scheindlin of
Federal District Court warned jurors otherwise, the government was on trial for
its treatment of Mr. Awadallah.

In 2002, Judge Scheindlin threw out the perjury charges against Mr. Awadallah,
calling them the fruit of an illegal detention and saying that the government
used duress and coercion to get him to agree to interviews.

The charges were reinstated more than a year later after a federal appeals court
overturned Judge Scheindlin's ruling.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rap and Film at the Louvre? What's Up With That?

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1039 words

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 20


Different cultural disciplines may share audiences, yet art, theater, movies,
music, dance and literature rarely commune directly with one another. More
often, it seems, they are self-referential, defining their own vocabularies,
speaking their own languages.

The Louvre has now set out to prove that this need not be so.

It has invited Toni Morrison, the most recent American to win the Nobel Prize in
Literature, to lead a ''conversation'' among the arts around a theme of her
choice. A result is ''The Foreigner's Home,'' a multidisciplinary program
focused on the pain -- and rewards -- of displacement, immigration and exile.

Ms. Morrison's starting point is Gericault's painting ''The Raft of the Medusa''
(1819), which shows distraught survivors struggling to stay afloat after a
shipwreck. For her it's the perfect metaphor for those millions set adrift in
search of new homes, wandering, as she put it, ''like nomads between despair and
hope, breath and death.''

The phenomenon is hardly new, but it is certainly topical. ''Excluding the
height of the slave trade, this mass movement of peoples is greater now than it
ever has been,'' Ms. Morrison said in her opening lecture, listing workers,
intellectuals, refugees, traders, immigrants and armies among those affected.

Yet whether it is Chinese peasants moving into bloated cities, Mexicans crossing
into the United States or Arabs and Africans heading for Europe, what most
intrigues her is what happens when they reach their destination, how they
adjust, how they are received. ''The theme requires us to come to terms with
being, fearing or accepting the stranger,'' she explained.

To turn this into a ''conversation,'' she is participating directly through
lectures, debates and readings, but her main role has been that of a catalyst
for others, artists and curators, to explore her theme in their areas of
expertise. And if many of the expressions are figurative, it is because the body
-- enslaved, estranged, displaced, liberated -- is effectively the storyteller.

''It seemed to me inevitable that if we could get a choreographer as one of our
disciplines, it would be a triumph,'' Ms. Morrison told a gathering of
reporters, ''because in that field you have the body in motion, and you have the
obligation of seeing the body as the real and final home.''

From this was born ''Foreign Bodies,'' an installation in the Louvre's Melpomene
Gallery in which the American choreographer William Forsythe and the German
sculptor and video artist Peter Welz have revisited Francis Bacon's last --
unfinished -- portrait.

Guided by this portrait, Mr. Forsythe, whose dance vocabulary often echoes
Bacon's contorted forms, performed a solo dance on a large sheet of white paper
with graphite attached to his hands and feet: thus a dance inspired by a drawing
became itself a drawing. The display includes Bacon's portrait, Mr. Forsythe's
danced ''sketch'' and three screens showing the dancer in action.

A related exhibit in the Mollien Galleries, developed with curators from the
Louvre, pairs drawings by Gericault, Charles Le Brun, Seurat and Degas with film
and videos, again with the body as the main focus.

For instance, ''Film,'' a 1965 short written by Samuel Beckett, in which Buster
Keaton plays a fleeing man determined not to show his face, is contrasted with
Seurat drawings in a section called ''Erasures.'' Bruce Nauman's video
''Bouncing in the Corner,'' depicting a repeatedly falling body, is linked to Le
Brun's drawings of writhing naked bodies.

Perhaps the most disturbing is Sonia Andrade's untitled self-portrait filmed in
1977 during Brazil's military regime. Accompanied by Degas drawings of medieval
warfare and Greek wrestlers, the film shows Ms. Andrade slowly wrapping her head
with a nylon wire until it is distorted, alienated, almost beyond recognition.

The eternal quality of Ms. Morrison's theme is presented through three
''routes'' highlighting objects in the museum's antiquities department. In one,
Greek ceramics from the fifth century B.C. illustrate the inferior status of
women in Athenian society. Eight Egyptian works focus on hostility toward
foreigners, while Assyrian reliefs show how conquests caused mass deportations.

Literature picked up the subject of displacement and language through a debate
on Saturday between Ms. Morrison and three writers: Edwige Danticat, who now
lives in the United States and writes in English about her native Haiti; Michael
Ondaatje, who was born in Sri Lanka, educated in Britain and lives in Canada;
and Boubacar Boris Diop, a Senegalese novelist who writes in French and in his
Wolof mother tongue.

France is an example of a country where foreigners are altering the language of
their new home. This can be heard in the slang used by urban youths, many of
African and Arab extraction, and in the poetry of rap. Some popular rappers
participated in a poetry slam in front of Gericault's ''Medusa'' as part of this
program.

In tapping her own African-American culture, Ms. Morrison is eager to credit
''foreigners'' with enriching the countries where they settle. ''After the
'please, please, please let us in,' '' she said, ''comes the other thing, the
creative energy that is carried inside them.''

As evidence, she has sponsored a retrospective of movies by the African-American
director Charles Burnett, as well as films and recordings featuring black
American voices like Paul Robeson, Grace Bumbry, Marian Anderson and Nina
Simone. A live concert by the Malian musician Toumani Diabate will close the
program on Nov. 29.

So does all this represent a ''conversation'' among the arts? ''Foreign
Bodies,'' the Forsythe-Welz-Bacon experiment, certainly does. In other cases,
different disciplines have illustrated a common theme without enormous
interaction.

Still, Henri Loyrette, the president of the Louvre, said the project
demonstrated that living artists had a place in a museum whose collection ends
in 1850. And, just as important, the experiment has offered an unconventional
reading of art history, a chance ''to go outside a single voice,'' as he put it.

''And in the case of Toni Morrison,'' he added, ''her very work serves as a
meeting point for reflection.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the rappers taking part in a poetry slam at the Louvre
on Friday.
 Toni Morrison in the Denon wing of the Louvre, where she is serving as host of
''The Foreigner's Home,'' a multidisciplinary program on displacement,
immigration and exile. (Photographs by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pg. E7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 22, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Deportation to Somalia Sets Off a Wave of Concern

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1257 words


On the evening of Nov. 2, a young corporate lawyer in New Jersey received a
frantic call from a charity client, a 46-year-old Harlem grocery clerk with a
history of petty crime. He was in custody on an airplane in Newark on his way to
Mogadishu, the capital of his native Somalia, a country so dangerous that to the
lawyer's knowledge, no one had been deported there in years.

The courts were closed, and a federal judge who heard an emergency motion the
next day ruled that the clerk, Mohamad Rasheed Jama, was already outside United
States jurisdiction. So, after a stop in Nairobi, where he was handed over to
Kenyans, Mr. Jama stepped off an airplane in Mogadishu -- and into the hands of
Islamist militants, who soon accused him of being an American spy and began
demanding money.

''They were extremely angry,'' said his lawyer, Emily B. Goldberg, relating the
last frightened call she got from Mr. Jama, who had spent four years in
immigration detention in New Jersey awaiting deportation to the land he left at
18. ''He asked me if there was anything I could do. I told him in the American
system, there was nothing more I could do.''

Mr. Jama, whose deportation was based on a 1989 conviction for owning an
unlicensed gun, is among the first Somalis to be repatriated against his will
since the United States Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 last year that the lack of a
functioning central government in Somalia did not bar such deportations. About
4,000 Somalis nationwide are eligible for immediate deportation under the
ruling, which turned on the syntax of a Congressional statute.

The case of Mr. Jama, who has a 9-year-old American daughter in Harlem,
highlights issues the nation has wrestled with for decades, such as what to do
with deportable immigrants who can neither be detained indefinitely nor safely
repatriated, and what should limit the government's discretion to decide their
fate.

Conditions in Somalia have worsened in recent months, moving to the brink of an
all-out regional war. In June, Mogadishu was seized by Islamic militias
suspected of harboring leaders of Al Qaeda. The militias, after routing warlords
backed by the United States, began imposing a Taliban-like regime of strict
religious courts.

A week before his abrupt departure, Mr. Jama's volunteer lawyers filed a habeas
petition on his behalf, arguing that his continued detention in the Middlesex
County Jail in New Jersey was unlawful because ''it is simply beyond dispute
that effecting his removal to Somalia would be impossible.''

Michael W. Gilhooly, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
confirmed Mr. Jama's deportation, declining to say whether more were under way.
But at a federal appeals hearing in Seattle last month, a Justice Department
lawyer said that three people had been deported to Somalia since the Supreme
Court ruling, after volunteering.

Because an injunction halting most such deportations was lifted in April, the
government lawyer, Greg D. Mack, added, the others would be deported at the
discretion of the Department of Homeland Security.

The 28 years Mr. Jama spent in New York hardly prepared him for survival under
Islamic fanatics. His job history, detailed in an affidavit, includes three
summers as a ''jack of all trades'' at Jewish youth camps in Orange County, as
well as long hours as a counter man in corner stores on upper Lexington Avenue.

His lengthy rap sheet reflects a drinking problem, he said in the affidavit, and
his having adapted too well to Harlem's ''street culture.'' Besides a
misdemeanor assault and the gun possession, for which he served three years in
prison, his offenses include possession of marijuana and selling beer without a
license.

But in his old Harlem neighborhood around West 115th Street, he is mainly
remembered as a hard worker and good father brought down by alcohol. ''He was
very cool, a good dude,'' said Lester Robinson, 26, whose sister, Waldrina
Robinson, is the mother of Mr. Jama's daughter, Ashante.

Ms. Robinson, a home attendant, said she ended a five-year relationship with Mr.
Jama in 2000, but she spoke warmly of the years after Ashante's birth in 1997,
when Mr. Jama changed the baby's diapers, often cared for the girl at the
grocery store where he worked, and ''gave me every dime'' he earned.

''He was a good father -- when he was there,'' she said.

From the government's perspective, Mr. Jama should have been gone years earlier.
In 1978, when Somalia still had a central government, Mr. Jama entered the
United States on a one-year visa to work with his father as a security guard at
Somalia's Diplomatic Mission to the United Nations.

Left behind at 19, when his father joined his mother in London, Mr. Jama learned
English, earned a high school equivalency diploma and became a permanent legal
resident under the immigration amnesty enacted by Congress in 1986. But he
bought an illegal handgun for protection after a cousin was killed in a robbery,
he said, and was arrested for having it after an alcohol-fueled dispute drew the
police.

Mr. Jama was ordered deported in 1993. But with no foreseeable chance of
deporting him to Somalia, where civil war was raging, the authorities released
him under supervision. As was typical at the time, no action was taken when he
stopped reporting, even when later infractions led to brief jail time.

After 9/11, attitudes changed. Mr. Jama was picked up in October 2002, as were
many other Somalis. But unlike those with comparable records who were
provisionally released again when deportations stopped, Mr. Jama had no lawyer
until this year. Then the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey took the
case and enlisted help from the law firm Gibbons, Del Deo, Dolan, Griffinger &
Vecchione.

''I want nothing more from life than to be near Ashante and to be involved in
her life on a daily basis once again,'' Mr. Jama wrote in his affidavit, seeking
supervised release to a cousin in Queens who had found him a job in a grocery
store. ''Although my greatest fear is remaining in immigration detention for the
rest of my life and never regaining my freedom, I am also frightened about what
could happen if the United States tried to remove me to Somalia.''

As a member of the Warsengeli clan, Mr. Jama faces special danger in areas
dominated by other clans, including Mogadishu, a Somalia expert wrote in an
affidavit. Other affidavits cited the failed deportation of Keyse G. Jama (no
relation), the Somali man who had lost the Supreme Court case, only to be
rejected at gunpoint at a Somalia airport and sent back to Minneapolis in the
spring of 2005. A federal judge outraged at that botched operation ordered the
government to ''slow down its rush to act'' and release him.

Keyse Jama is now in Canada, where he fled in January and applied for political
asylum, which is granted to the vast majority of Somali applicants, said David
Yerzy, his Toronto lawyer.

In the United States, lawyers for Somalis are asking whether Mr. Jama's
deportation signals the start of a mass deportation or a warning to those facing
indefinite detention that ''if you use habeas, you'll be on the next flight,''
said Jeffrey Keyes, the Minneapolis lawyer who argued the Supreme Court case.

In Mogadishu, as far as is known, Mr. Jama is just trying to survive.

''The government demonstrated a complete disregard for my client's safety,'' Ms.
Goldberg said. ''I strongly believe that Mr. Jama is simply the first of many
that will be placed in a similarly dangerous situation.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohamad Rasheed Jama was recently deported to Somalia.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Day Laborers' Rights

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 420 words


You cannot abuse people through selective enforcement of the law. You cannot
single people out for special punishment without cause. You cannot instruct the
police to harass people for being Latino and poor. Cities and towns across the
country have overlooked these basics in their eagerness to punish those they
presume to have violated federal immigration laws. But thankfully for all of us,
the Constitution still has the final say.

On Monday, a federal judge ruled that Mamaroneck, a village in suburban
Westchester County, N.Y., had waged a discriminatory campaign of ticketing and
harassment to drive Latino day laborers out of town.

In Freehold, N.J., last week, advocates for immigrants hailed the settlement of
a three-year-old lawsuit sparked by similar mistreatment. Day laborers there
will no longer be ticketed for soliciting work in public places, and building
inspectors and police officers will stop entering homes without residents'
consent in what the advocates said was a selective crackdown on Latinos in
rental housing.

That followed a heartening ruling issued last May, when a federal judge ordered
the city of Redondo Beach, Calif., to stop arresting day laborers for violating
a local ordinance against soliciting work in public.

Together these victories send an important message about basic rights and
promise to help stem a tide of local vigilantism. The underlying problem,
however, remains. The righteous ardor of the Mamaronecks and Freeholds of this
world has risen in direct proportion to the federal paralysis on immigration. It
underscores the urgent need for Congress and the president to step up to the
perennially difficult task of determining who may cross our borders and how, and
of creating a fair and viable path out of the shadows for deserving immigrants
who are living and working here illegally.

And while the courts have upheld the basic rights of an abused minority, they
have not made day laborers any more welcome in their communities or helped local
governments find ways to treat them with dignity while upholding residents'
desires for a reasonable amount of order. The judge who assailed Mamaroneck,
saying it was beyond doubt ''that the village acted with malicious or bad-faith
intent to injure the day laborers,'' added that she had also found no law that
would compel it to create a hiring site for them.

That would be the practical and decent approach, the one most respectful of
civic order and common sense. But you can't impose common sense from the bench.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Using Fiction In a Real Fight Against Drugs

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: MERCED, Calif., Nov. 23


California officials have adopted the idea of fotonovelas, the small picture
books popular in Mexico, in hopes of persuading immigrant laborers to resist the
easy-money temptation of the methamphetamine trade.

Thousands in the Central Valley, a broad agricultural swath that runs up the
middle of the state, have read the story of Jose, a farmworker who endangers his
family by working for a drug ring. The story, ''No Vale La Pena,'' or ''It's Not
Worth It,'' has also inspired a Spanish-language film, and officials from other
states have requested copies of both projects.

Community leaders in and around Merced, about 130 miles southeast of San
Francisco, saw the fotonovela concept as an effective way to reach immigrant
workers.

''We were trying to get that message across to a population that has a very low
literacy level and that's really isolated,'' said a public relations executive,
Virginia Madueno, who created the booklet.

The Central Valley is a primary distribution point for methamphetamine,
according to a Department of Justice report released last month.

Mexican drug cartels have begun to dominate the trade in the area. Sheriff Mark
N. Pazin of Merced County said cartels accounted for more than 80 percent of the
arrests on methamphetamine-production charges in 2003. The federal report said
the cartels were trying to expand into other areas with large immigrant
populations.

''No Vale La Pena'' ends sadly. Jose, recruited by a drug lord, hides his
methamphetamine laboratory from his wife and exposes their daughter to a fatal
dose of chemicals.

The first publishing run, of 15,000 copies, was soon exhausted, said Ben Duran,
the president of Merced College, who helped create the storybook using
donations. More were printed, and the book is now available at many supermarkets
catering to Hispanics across California.

Last year, Mr. Duran started working on a film based on the story, styled to
look like a Mexican soap opera. He played the drug kingpin in the film, made
with help from the sheriff and $100,000 in federal financing. It has been shown
in classrooms, at nurses' conventions and at commercial theaters in several
states.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Emphasizing the No Hassle in 'No-Hassle Zones'

BYLINE: By GERRI HIRSHEY.

E-mail: conn@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: STAMFORD


TORRENTIAL rains have reduced the customary crowd of about 50 day laborers
waiting for work under the I-95 viaduct on State Street to just a clutch of
shivering sodden men. Here in the pickup area that city signs designate the ''No
Hassle Zone'' for hiring, no contractors' trucks cruise by.

''If they are lucky, many of them will work just two days a week,'' says the
Rev. Juan David Paniagua, the 32-year-old Colombian-born pastor of the Stamford
Spanish Second Church of the Nazarene.

Unlike these men -- most are undocumented immigrants from Central and South
America -- Mr. Paniagua arrived at his assigned church from Bogota with proper
papers and his family (a wife and two children) intact. Now he does pastoring of
a different sort as a part-time outreach worker for the East Side Partnership
here. This association of local residents and business owners hired him to
tackle the dicey, sometimes contentious relationship between the men, who can
number in the hundreds during the summer, and the community within the main
hiring corridor along East Main.

On behalf of local merchants dismayed by men milling outside their businesses,
Mr. Paniagua asks contractors not to pick up workers outside the designated
zone, especially the Dunkin' Donuts on East Main. He urges the laborers not to
rush the trucks, to keep the zone clean and stay there. But it's tough to herd
this skittish flock that senses the wolf at the door.

''They are just trying to survive,'' Mr. Paniagua says. Some days, his job
requires the agility and tenacity of a border collie.

In the partnership's tiny Myrtle Avenue office, Mr. Paniagua explains his
mission: ''The purpose of my work is to give these people some voice. Most of
them are afraid about filing a claim or calling the boss, the contractor, to ask
for payment.''

Among the undocumented, he explains, fear is the greatest ally of exploitation
-- a condition borne out by the first nationwide study of day laborers in 2005,
which found that nearly half of day laborers at 500 hiring sites reported being
cheated out of wages. In Stamford, according to Mr. Paniagua's own study of
about 60 workers, 65 percent report being cheated; 10 percent had been abandoned
at a workplace by an employer; nearly 30 percent say they were denied food and
water breaks; and 20 percent were injured on the job. Less than half of the
injured received medical care.

''I have seen some terrible stories here,'' Mr. Paniagua says. He cites the man
who came looking for work just days after doctors had reconstructed a finger
mangled and flayed by a machine. Another, with his left arm in a cast, was
trying to work two weeks after an accident that had crushed his shoulder and
collarbone.

Sandra Ramos overcame her fear to let Mr. Paniagua file complaints with the
State Department of Labor on behalf of her and a co-worker against a local
cleaning service that paid them $275 a week, but demanded that they work 84 to
90 hours a week -- over six days.

''That had them working for less than half minimum wage,'' Mr. Paniagua said.
(Connecticut's minimum hourly wage is $7.40 and goes to $7.65 on Jan. 1.) ''But
it took Sandra months to quit that because she has four children to feed in
Guatemala.''

The women's claims, under investigation, are Mr. Paniagua's first filing with
the labor department. Often when phone calls to contractors do not elicit
payment, he resorts to small claims court. ''But sometimes even when we get
judgments, some refuse to pay,'' he says.

Carmen Domonkos, project manager for the citywide Stamford Partnership, who
hired Mr. Paniagua, says his victories echo loudly: ''Juan is quiet and low key,
but the laborers and the business people have come to trust him. Once he helped
two or three guys get paid, it went a long way toward building confidence.''

Last month, Mr. Paniagua was glad to get some advice from members of the Los
Angeles-based National Day Labor Organizing Network, which signed an agreement
in August with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to work at improving wages and health care for
workers. With the Census Bureau classifying Connecticut as a ''destination''
state for immigrants -- they will spend $3 billion in the state this year and
send $300 million home -- Mr. Paniagua acknowledges that day laborer issues will
require solutions brokered in Hartford and Washington.

But right now, he has a very specific problem with his little island in the
stream. ''Dunkin' Donuts is moving two blocks north on East Main,'' he says
gloomily, meaning it will be harder to keep the workers in the zone.

Back at the dripping, disconsolate No Hassle Zone, no one will promise that they
won't try to follow the bosses to the shop as the slow winter season closes in.
No one is inclined to give a full name to a reporter. But a man with bandaged
fingers calling himself Ernesto is willing to translate the consensus on Mr.
Paniagua and his work among them: ''One good man. Many, many problems.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: PARTNERS -- The Rev. Juan David Paniagua, center, with day
laborers in Stamford. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 28, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Speed Bump at the Border

BYLINE: By THOMAS B. EDSALL.

Thomas B. Edsall holds the Pulitzer-Moore Chair at Columbia University. He is a
guest columnist this month.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 730 words

DATELINE: Washington


Democrats preparing to take over Congress appear to have a perfect issue for the
party of the left: the rich are getting richer, but sizable productivity gains
and rising corporate profits are not paying off for the working and middle
classes. All boats are not rising with the tide.

The picture is a paint-by-the-numbers portrait of the greedy picking the pockets
of the needy. The villains are C.E.O.s, investment bankers and corporate
managers who refuse to pass on profits in the form of higher wages. The victims
are workers who struggle to deal with an increasingly unreliable and, for many,
unrewarding marketplace -- producing more while under the constant threat of
job, health care and pension loss.

The success of candidates attacking outsourcing and trade agreements like Nafta,
combined with high Democratic margins among economically pessimistic voters,
clearly points to middle-class wage stagnation and growing inequality as
significant factors in the election this month.

Politically, the result has shifted the balance of power within the Democratic
Party in favor of the protectionist wing, and especially in favor of such major
unions as the Teamsters, the steelworkers and the autoworkers, all key party
supporters with money and manpower.

The strengthening of the Democrats' protectionist wing is virtually certain to
force to the surface a second, and closely related, internal conflict between
the party's pro- and anti-immigration wings. This conflict among Democrats
remained submerged while President Bush and the Republican House and Senate
majorities fought without resolution over the same issue.

''Immigration is a difficult issue for the Democrats; it cuts in complicated
ways,'' says Stephen Ansolabehere, an M.I.T. political scientist who helped
conduct an Internet survey of 37,000 voters. The Democratic Party made major
gains in the Mountain West, he says, and many of these voters are ''populist
with a lot of nativism,'' firmly opposed to the more liberal immigration
policies of key party leaders.

A solid block of Democrats who won this month -- Jon Tester, James Webb, Sherrod
Brown and Heath Shuler included -- is inclined to put the brakes on all
cross-border activity (otherwise known as globalization): trade, outsourcing and
the flow of human labor. Nolan McCarty of Princeton, writing with two
colleagues, has provided some empirical data supporting the argument that
immigration has led ''to policies that increase economic inequality.''
Significant numbers within the Democratic Party agree with this reasoning.

Globalization ''needs to be controlled and slowed down because of the brutal
destruction and vast imbalances of wealth it causes,'' Jeff Faux, a stalwart of
the protectionist wing on the Democratic left, writes in Dissent magazine. ''The
nihilistic vision of the world as an accelerating treadmill of constant
insecurity, jobs with longer hours and shorter pay  the triumph of dog-eat-dog
competition  is a vision of hell.''

The protectionist wing is likely to hold sway at least in the first few months
of the 110th Congress. Over time, however, Faux and his allies are likely to
fail. The forces of international competition have proved more powerful than any
government, and advocates of aggressive policies to constrain them face a
porous, borderless and now highly electronic international economy. Legislation
can require American companies to distribute profits to workers, but it will be
virtually impossible to enforce as competition razes companies playing by those
rules. For the moment, Democratic chances of restoring more equal patterns in
the growth of wages are bleak.

Barney Frank, representing members of the House who would like to stake out
middle ground, has proposed a ''grand bargain.'' If corporate America agrees to
equitable wages, Democrats will back free trade and eased regulations. ''What we
want to do is to look at public policies that'll get some bigger share of the
increased wealth into wages, and in return you'll see Democrats as
internationalists,'' he said.

Even if the deal were cut, the odds are strong that the global economy would
prevent American business from keeping its promise. The sooner Democrats realize
that they -- and, more important, their constituents -- are up against a wall,
the sooner they will seriously focus their attention on how to climb it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Says Immigrant Students Lose in Choice of Schools

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 640 words


Immigrant students in New York City who do not speak English well are being shut
out of many of the small new high schools that are the signature educational
initiative of the Bloomberg administration, immigrant advocates say in a report
released yesterday.

New small schools, many with attractive specialties like art, health sciences
and sports careers, have become a magnet for philanthropic dollars and positive
national publicity. Yet in the first two years of their existence, city policy
allows these schools to deny admission to immigrant students who need help
learning English, the report notes.

Instead, the report says, such students are concentrated in nine small
International Schools started in the 1980s, or relegated to large and
overcrowded schools. If such schools fail and are closed, students who need
extra help learning English are mainly transferred to other large schools.

The report -- which includes an analysis of city and state education data,
surveys of 1,150 parents and students, and information from 126 schools -- also
points to a dearth of small new schools in Queens, where new immigrants are
concentrated and where large schools are particularly overcrowded.

Although the report acknowledges that the students in the International Schools
are doing very well, ''We want immigrant kids to have the same choices that
their classmates have,'' Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York
Immigration Coalition, said yesterday at a news conference with Advocates for
Children and the six other organizations involved in the report.

Almost 38,000 immigrant students -- about 12 percent of the total high school
population -- are labeled ''English Language Learners,'' or ''ELL,'' when they
fail a language proficiency test.

Despite the policy that fledgling schools can exclude such students for the
first two years of operation, Andres Alonso, deputy chancellor of teaching and
learning at the city's Department of Education, said in an e-mail message that
these students ''have equivalent access.''

He did agree that such students perform better in small schools -- which have
fewer than 500 students -- than in large ones. For example, the report says that
85.8 percent of the ninth graders in small schools are promoted to 10th grade,
compared with only 63.8 percent in all other schools.

''We have increased the number of new small schools with an ELL focus every
year, and will continue to do so,'' Mr. Alonso said.

The report, in condemning the way the city limits access to small schools,
echoes a complaint of discrimination that critics of the small school initiative
filed in the spring with the United States Education Department's Office of
Civil Rights. But unlike those critics, the report accepts and bolsters the
administration's claims of success in small schools, which only 18 percent of
public high school students attend.

The report also calls for better information about the high school admission
process for foreign parents and students.

''Immigrant students feel like the black sheep,'' Ms. Hong said. ''It's a policy
problem, it's an outreach problem and it's a priority problem.''

English-language learners arguably have even more to lose or gain in the high
school years than their English-speaking peers, the report's authors said at the
news conference. Immigrant students who fail to gain English proficiency in high
school have some of the worst dropout rates in the city school system: 50.5
percent, compared with 32.4 percent for English-proficient students in the class
of 2005 at the end of seven years.

On the other hand, those who succeed in learning English in high school graduate
at even higher rates than those who never needed extra language help at all, the
same Department of Education statistics show: 74.5 percent compared with 68.3
percent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Traveling From Mexico to Vietnam, Via a Shopping Cart on Long Island

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME.

E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y.


''Tenemos puercos enteros,'' says the sign taped to the front door of the
Compare Foods supermarket off Exit 62 of the Long Island Expressway. ''We have
whole pigs.''

Well, of course, they have whole pigs, a Christmas season favorite for the
shoppers at Compare Foods, which has 12 stores across Long Island, catering to
an overwhelmingly Hispanic clientele.

They have whole pigs and pigs' feet, pig tails, pig hearts, pig kidneys and
smoked pork neck bones. They have creamy Mexican sour cream and Salvadoran
cheese bread. They have Colombian yellow potatoes called papa criolla, Nestle La
Lechera Flakes cereal, black chili pods and pasilla chili pods, chipotle chili
pods and Japanese chili pods, fresh plantains, great stacks of La Sirena pica
pica (hot sardines), Materva yerba mate soda from Argentina, and Guarana
Antarctica soda from Brazil, so much food from so many countries it makes your
head spin.

You can gauge the sweeping demographic changes on Long Island, once the
quintessence of white bread suburbia, by the strife over immigrant workers or
the languages spoken in local schools. But one of the simplest ways is to walk
the aisles of the Compare Foods market, housed in what used to be a typical
Waldbaum's in Suffolk County, now wedged between an Eckerd drugstore and the
Paisa Panaderia Colombiana, a Colombian bakery.

The Compare Foods stores aren't the only groceries on Long Island geared to an
immigrant population. Western Beef, is another bargain-priced chain with aisles
devoted to Latin and Caribbean foods. The huge V&T market in Hempstead village
caters to Hispanic and Asian shoppers.

But few have succeeded like Compare Foods, which grew out of a neighborhood
grocery started by the Pena family in Woodside, Queens. The family opened its
first Compare Foods in 1989 in Freeport on Long Island. Its Web site now lists
26 stores, including sites in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and North
Carolina in addition to the 12 on Long Island.

''Here's the Portuguese section,'' said Alex Perez, the 30-year-old manager, as
he walked down Aisle 3. ''Here's Brazilian, Argentinian, Uruguayan, Mexican,
Colombian, Salvadoran.'' He went on to foods from Ecuador, Peru, the Caribbean
and then India and Vietnam. ''It's amazing how diverse this area is. I've been
at the store four years and even over the last year, it's amazing how much more
diverse it's become.''

Compare Foods offers Cokes, Pop-Tarts, Kix and most of the offerings at
conventional supermarkets. But its background music is Hispanic pop or samba,
cumbia or merengue. The decor features colorful pinatas. The produce aisles,
amazingly aromatic, include sheets of dried codfish along with coconuts, yellow
Jamaican yams, white Colombian ones and fresh sugar cane.

The meat bins are full of cuts and specialties: ox tail, goat shoulder, cow
testicle, tripe, guinea pig, beef tongue, cow head a little closer to the bone
than what you find at the local A.&P. And no matter what Mexican beer or
Brazilian soda or brand of tamales or tangerine pulp shoppers want, they can
usually get the store to stock it, whether it's Peru Foods aji amarillo -- hot
yellow peppers -- or Mi Ranchito chicharron fresco -- fried pork skins.

''We deal with vendors the big chains -- Waldbaum's, Stop & Shop -- have never
heard of,'' said Luis Correa, the general manager of the Suffolk stores.
''That's our niche.''

So they come for lots of reasons. Pablo Veintimilla of Selden was looking for
tripe because his aunt from Ecuador was visiting and promised to cook it if he
found some. Jimmy Le, 13, was shopping with his parents, Sen Le and Duc Le, who
are Vietnamese and now live in Shirley. Even though most of the shoppers are
Hispanic, the store feels more like the markets in Vietnam than the antiseptic
stores they've found here. Jesus Vanegas cooks food he sells to coffee carts and
likes the prices and the variety.

Manny Gonzalez of Ronkonkoma was born in Brooklyn, but he still prefers the
variety of produce, spices and foods at Compare Foods to the more generic
markets. ''There you find one aisle,'' he said. ''Here you find 30.''

There are aisles at which the products don't vary much from the bigger chains.
For example, it turns out Hispanic shoppers are just as partial to Cap'n Crunch
and Cocoa Puffs and the standard array of a.m. sugar as the shoppers at the
A.&P. are.

On the other hand, there are products that definitely don't work at Compare
Foods.

''The American consumer has become very health conscious -- low fat, low sodium,
low sugar, but we don't see much of that here,'' Mr. Perez said. ''They say give
me my grease. Give me my sugar. Give me my salt. We tried the other, and it just
didn't sell.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 72 words


A picture caption on Friday with an article about Roger Barnett, a
self-appointed border watcher in Arizona who has been sued by immigrant rights
groups, misidentified the girl in the lower-right photograph. The girl,
photographed with Ronald Morales, is Emma English, who joined Mr. Morales and
others in a lawsuit against Mr. Barnett; she is not Angelique Venese, which are
actually the given names of Mr. Morales's two daughters.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Answer? It's in Mexico's Classrooms

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN.

Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University and co-writes
a blog at www.marginalrevolution.com. He can be reached at tcowen@gmu.edu.

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 891 words


Poorly functioning Mexican and Latino educational systems are a central problem
behind current immigration dilemmas, and the United States is partly
responsible. If the United States took in a higher ratio of legal immigrants,
and required more education, the entire North American region would be better
off.

A high school diploma brings higher wages in Mexico, but in the United States
the more educated migrants do not earn noticeably more than those who have less
education. Education does not much raise the productivity of hard physical
labor. The result is that the least educated Mexicans have the most reason to
cross the border. In addition, many Mexicans, knowing they may someday go to the
United States, see less reason to invest in education.

Mexican immigrants used to have higher-than-average levels of education, but
today the average male Mexican migrant has lower-than-average education by
Mexican standards.

David McKenzie of the World Bank, and Hillel Rapoport, a lecturer in economics
at Bar-Ilan University in Israel, document this shift and show that extensive
social networks of fellow countrymen make it increasingly easy for male migrants
with little education to find apartments and jobs in the United States
(''Self-selection patterns in Mexico-U.S. migration: The role of migration
networks,'' at
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/DEC/Resources/Self--selection--patterns--in--
Mexico--U--S--migration.pdf). Less-educated migrants are more likely to bring
crime and social problems, and they are less likely to assimilate.

In contrast to the men, female arrivals from Mexico still have above-average
levels of education for their gender. A woman who migrates is most likely to
have eight to nine years of education.

It appears that (relatively) educated Mexican women are more willing to break
away from their families. Furthermore, Mexican women are less likely to work in
agriculture or at hard labor, so education brings a higher wage in the United
States. In other words, the dynamic for female Mexican migration is a more
positive one. Nonetheless, illegal Mexican immigrants to the United States are
usually male, if only because crossing the border is perilous and physically
demanding.

This gender imbalance worsens the problems of immigration. Large numbers of
young Mexican men have scant prospects for marriage or family in the United
States. Men who marry tend to earn more money, behave more responsibly, commit
less crime and assimilate more readily. Much of the so-called ''immigration
problem'' stems from the illegality of immigration rather than from immigration
itself.

Unfortunately, we cannot expect a wealthier Mexico to resolve migration
problems, at least not within the short- or even medium-run. The evidence
suggests that good times in Mexico give the poor the means to leave, while
keeping the better-educated males at home in good jobs.

A better immigration policy would tighten the border, while allowing in more
legal immigrants from Mexico and other Latin countries, and require higher
levels of education. Young Mexicans would see greater reason to invest in
education, to the benefit of all Mexican society, not just those who cross the
border. Sixteen percent of the Mexican labor force is working in the United
States at any point in time, and, of course, earning higher average wages than
laborers in Mexico, so the impact of American policy on Mexico is significant.
The less educated Mexicans could be some of the biggest winners from immigration
reform.

In the United States, employers have a greater incentive to train legal Mexican
workers and combine their labors more effectively with capital investment; when
the workers are illegal, employers create only the most makeshift of
circumstances. The legality and thus physical ease of immigration would also
encourage the arrival of more Mexican women, thereby remedying the gender
imbalance and encouraging assimilation. In the short run, the greater number of
immigrant children would raise costs in the United States for education and
health care, but in the longer run those children would produce goods and
services and pay taxes.

Taking in a higher proportion of women would relieve the migration-driven gender
imbalance of rural Mexico. It is common for villages to have many unmarried
young women, but virtually no young men. The women who are married often go
without their husbands for years. The remaining men are more likely to treat
their women badly, knowing they can always find another partner.

Shutting the Mexican border is probably not possible, and it would paralyze
American businesses and agriculture. A guest worker program without restrictions
on education might be better than doing nothing, but would not solve the
negative educational dynamic. Many guest workers would stay on past the
expiration of their visas, again shifting the ratio back toward illegal
immigration. Furthermore, workers tied to a single job, as is the case for most
guest worker programs, are unlikely to put down roots.

The United States needs the courage to legalize a higher number of immigrant
arrivals. The problems with current illegal migration are real. But most
Americans benefit from Latino migration, even of the illegal kind, and they
could benefit much more from legal and better-educated arrivals.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

New Chapters in Regional Growth

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 404 words


The surge of immigration in the suburbs in the last five years has had a huge
impact on schools: With the number of white students in the region declining,
growth is now almost entirely driven by big influxes of Indians, Mexicans and
many other nationalities.

The region, including New Jersey, Connecticut and downstate suburban counties in
New York, has more than 2.6 million students in public elementary and secondary
schools. The majority of those, about 1.6 million, are white, and that number
has declined slightly since 2000-1.

But Hispanic enrollment is up 26 percent, to 450,000 from 358,000, and Asian
enrollment has grown 28 percent, to 163,000 from 127,000. African-American
enrollment has grown about 3 percent, to 408,000 from 396,000.

The region's job opportunities have provided the lure for immigrants,
demographers say, and helped the suburbs to supplant the city as the main
destination for people from other countries. Since 2000, foreign-born
populations have grown five times faster in the suburbs than in the city,
according to figures from the United States Census Bureau's American Community
Survey.

The opportunities include both high-wage corporate jobs in technical fields and
low-wage labor in landscaping and the food industry.

The largest source of new immigrants into New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
in the last five years has been India, census data show, followed by Mexico,
China, the Philippines, Ecuador and Peru.

With such a big change in enrollments, schools have had to hire more
multilingual teachers and offer after-school and weekend language courses. And
what used to be the job of a few teachers of English as a second language now
involves the entire faculty, say state education officials.

''All teachers have to become knowledgeable about how to deal with these
students,'' said Raquel Sinai, coordinator for bilingual programs for the New
Jersey Department of Education. ''These are the students of our public schools
now, and it's not just a challenge for a few bilingual teachers.''

Suburban schools have also taken a leading role in assimilating these new
residents.

''Part of the focus is assisting the families,'' said Eudes Budai, the director
of bilingual programs for the Westbury School District on Long Island, which has
a fast-growing Hispanic enrollment. ''We want to embrace what they come with,
and teach them how to succeed in the new environment.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 10, 2006



CORRECTION: Because of a production error, a chart with the continuation of an
article last Sunday about the surge of Asian enrollment in schools showed
districts on Long Island. For Connecticut districts, go to

  nytimes.com/intheregion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: CHANGES -- Outside Herricks High School on Long Island. (Photo
by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Chapters in Regional Growth

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 404 words


The surge of immigration in the suburbs in the last five years has had a huge
impact on schools: With the number of white students in the region declining,
growth is now almost entirely driven by big influxes of Indians, Mexicans and
many other nationalities.

The region, including New Jersey, Connecticut and downstate suburban counties in
New York, has more than 2.6 million students in public elementary and secondary
schools. The majority of those, about 1.6 million, are white, and that number
has declined slightly since 2000-1.

But Hispanic enrollment is up 26 percent, to 450,000 from 358,000, and Asian
enrollment has grown 28 percent, to 163,000 from 127,000. African-American
enrollment has grown about 3 percent, to 408,000 from 396,000.

The region's job opportunities have provided the lure for immigrants,
demographers say, and helped the suburbs to supplant the city as the main
destination for people from other countries. Since 2000, foreign-born
populations have grown five times faster in the suburbs than in the city,
according to figures from the United States Census Bureau's American Community
Survey.

The opportunities include both high-wage corporate jobs in technical fields and
low-wage labor in landscaping and the food industry.

The largest source of new immigrants into New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
in the last five years has been India, census data show, followed by Mexico,
China, the Philippines, Ecuador and Peru.

With such a big change in enrollments, schools have had to hire more
multilingual teachers and offer after-school and weekend language courses. And
what used to be the job of a few teachers of English as a second language now
involves the entire faculty, say state education officials.

''All teachers have to become knowledgeable about how to deal with these
students,'' said Raquel Sinai, coordinator for bilingual programs for the New
Jersey Department of Education. ''These are the students of our public schools
now, and it's not just a challenge for a few bilingual teachers.''

Suburban schools have also taken a leading role in assimilating these new
residents.

''Part of the focus is assisting the families,'' said Eudes Budai, the director
of bilingual programs for the Westbury School District on Long Island, which has
a fast-growing Hispanic enrollment. ''We want to embrace what they come with,
and teach them how to succeed in the new environment.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CHANGES -- Outside Herricks High School on Long Island. (Photo
by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Chapters in Regional Growth

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 404 words


The surge of immigration in the suburbs in the last five years has had a huge
impact on schools: With the number of white students in the region declining,
growth is now almost entirely driven by big influxes of Indians, Mexicans and
many other nationalities.

The region, including New Jersey, Connecticut and downstate suburban counties in
New York, has more than 2.6 million students in public elementary and secondary
schools. The majority of those, about 1.6 million, are white, and that number
has declined slightly since 2000-1.

But Hispanic enrollment is up 26 percent, to 450,000 from 358,000, and Asian
enrollment has grown 28 percent, to 163,000 from 127,000. African-American
enrollment has grown about 3 percent, to 408,000 from 396,000.

The region's job opportunities have provided the lure for immigrants,
demographers say, and helped the suburbs to supplant the city as the main
destination for people from other countries. Since 2000, foreign-born
populations have grown five times faster in the suburbs than in the city,
according to figures from the United States Census Bureau's American Community
Survey.

The opportunities include both high-wage corporate jobs in technical fields and
low-wage labor in landscaping and the food industry.

The largest source of new immigrants into New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
in the last five years has been India, census data show, followed by Mexico,
China, the Philippines, Ecuador and Peru.

With such a big change in enrollments, schools have had to hire more
multilingual teachers and offer after-school and weekend language courses. And
what used to be the job of a few teachers of English as a second language now
involves the entire faculty, say state education officials.

''All teachers have to become knowledgeable about how to deal with these
students,'' said Raquel Sinai, coordinator for bilingual programs for the New
Jersey Department of Education. ''These are the students of our public schools
now, and it's not just a challenge for a few bilingual teachers.''

Suburban schools have also taken a leading role in assimilating these new
residents.

''Part of the focus is assisting the families,'' said Eudes Budai, the director
of bilingual programs for the Westbury School District on Long Island, which has
a fast-growing Hispanic enrollment. ''We want to embrace what they come with,
and teach them how to succeed in the new environment.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CHANGES -- Outside Herricks High School on Long Island. (Photo
by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Chapters in Regional Growth

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 404 words


The surge of immigration in the suburbs in the last five years has had a huge
impact on schools: With the number of white students in the region declining,
growth is now almost entirely driven by big influxes of Indians, Mexicans and
many other nationalities.

The region, including New Jersey, Connecticut and downstate suburban counties in
New York, has more than 2.6 million students in public elementary and secondary
schools. The majority of those, about 1.6 million, are white, and that number
has declined slightly since 2000-1.

But Hispanic enrollment is up 26 percent, to 450,000 from 358,000, and Asian
enrollment has grown 28 percent, to 163,000 from 127,000. African-American
enrollment has grown about 3 percent, to 408,000 from 396,000.

The region's job opportunities have provided the lure for immigrants,
demographers say, and helped the suburbs to supplant the city as the main
destination for people from other countries. Since 2000, foreign-born
populations have grown five times faster in the suburbs than in the city,
according to figures from the United States Census Bureau's American Community
Survey.

The opportunities include both high-wage corporate jobs in technical fields and
low-wage labor in landscaping and the food industry.

The largest source of new immigrants into New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
in the last five years has been India, census data show, followed by Mexico,
China, the Philippines, Ecuador and Peru.

With such a big change in enrollments, schools have had to hire more
multilingual teachers and offer after-school and weekend language courses. And
what used to be the job of a few teachers of English as a second language now
involves the entire faculty, say state education officials.

''All teachers have to become knowledgeable about how to deal with these
students,'' said Raquel Sinai, coordinator for bilingual programs for the New
Jersey Department of Education. ''These are the students of our public schools
now, and it's not just a challenge for a few bilingual teachers.''

Suburban schools have also taken a leading role in assimilating these new
residents.

''Part of the focus is assisting the families,'' said Eudes Budai, the director
of bilingual programs for the Westbury School District on Long Island, which has
a fast-growing Hispanic enrollment. ''We want to embrace what they come with,
and teach them how to succeed in the new environment.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CHANGES -- Outside Herricks High School on Long Island. (Photo
by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Uneasy Exiles Await Those Who Flee the Chaos in Iraq

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH; Suha Maayeh contributed reporting from Amman, and
Rasha Elass from Damascus, Syria.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1569 words

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Dec. 6


Every day at dusk as the streets of this brooding city empty, people like Halima
Reyahi scramble to become invisible again.

She sticks to side streets, her eyes scanning for the increasingly frequent
police dragnets and checkpoints set up in search of illegal Iraqi immigrants
like her. The loneliness of her exile is magnified by the fact that all four of
her sons have been turned away repeatedly at the Jordanian border.

Ms. Reyahi is one of nearly two million Iraqis who have fled the vicious chaos
of their country since the American invasion nearly four years ago, flooding
neighboring states, especially Jordan and Syria, but also Lebanon and Egypt.

As they leave Iraq at a rate of nearly 3,000 a day, , the refugees are
threatening the social and economic fabric of both Jordan and Syria. In Jordan,
hundreds of thousands of Iraqis are trying to blend into a country of only 6
million inhabitants, including about 1.5 million registered Palestinian
refugees. The governments classify most of the Iraqis as visitors, not refugees.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimated in a report released
last month that more than 1.6 million Iraqis have left since March 2003, nearly
7 percent of the population. Jordanian security officials say more than 750,000
are in and around Amman, a city of 2.5 million. Syrian officials estimate that
up to a million have gone to the suburbs of Damascus, a city of three million.
An additional 150,000 have landed in Cairo. Every month, 100,000 more join them
in Syria and Jordan, the report said.

In a report released this week, Refugees International, a Washington-based
advocacy group, put the total at close to two million and called their flight
''the fastest-growing humanitarian crisis in the world.'' Its president, Kenneth
Bacon, said, ''The United States and its allies sparked the current chaos in
Iraq, but they are doing little to ease the humanitarian crisis caused by the
current exodus.''

Every night, hulking orange and white GMC Suburbans and sedans pull into the
taxi garage in downtown Amman stuffed with Iraqis and their belongings, adding
to the growing social problems they pose while fueling growing fears that Iraq's
sectarian tensions will spill over here.

As Iraq seems to disintegrate into warring factions of Sunnis, Shiites and
Kurds, the risk that their dispute will be transferred here and increase local
social problems is frightening the authorities. As a result, restrictions on
Iraqis have been tightened in Egypt, Syria and Jordan, which has been increasing
patrols seeking to evict those who have overstayed their visas.

Most of the emigres bring tales of horror and sadness. Ali Ghani, a onetime
champion Iraqi body builder, said that his father had been grabbed from their
house in Iraq, apparently because he was a Shiite; his body was later found in
the street. Several other friends have met a similar fate, he said.

Partly as a result of such strife, refugees here claim, there is a growing
sectarian dimension to the official crackdown. They say the authorities of this
officially Sunni country have paid more attention to deporting Iraqi Shiites,
fearing that their militias are trying to organize here.

''There is only disrespect for us now,'' said Qais Attiyeh, 36, a Shiite
sculptor who says he has been granted refugee status in Amman. ''And now I
increasingly find Jordanians who ask me, 'Are you a Shiite or a Muslim?' '' he
said, referring to extremist Sunnis' rejection of Shiism as a branch of Islam.

''I read their facial expressions and tell them what they like to hear,'' he
said.

Faris Braizat, a researcher at the Center for Strategic Studies at Jordan
University, said, ''It's becoming clear that with these kinds of numbers we are
creating a massive problem further down the road.'' Jordanians, once proud of
their Iraqi neighbors, have become unwilling to continue sacrificing for them,
he said.

The first wave of Iraqis, mostly doctors, intellectuals and teachers, came here
after the Persian Gulf war in 1991, escaping Saddam Hussein's Iraq. After the
American invasion of 2003, a similarly wealthy wave of former government
figures, businessmen and investors came here with billions of dollars that they
soon began investing in real estate and businesses. Their arrival drove up
prices but was also credited with helping the economy. As their numbers grew and
much poorer people started to arrive, however, the problems began.

In particular, when Iraqi suicide bombers attacked three Amman hotels in 2005,
this country's attitude toward Iraqis changed abruptly. The attack was organized
by Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, which was led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian.
Jordanian officials stepped up immigration enforcement, turning away many Iraqis
at the border and making it harder for Iraqis to renew their visas.

It remains the case that those able to deposit $150,000 in Amman banks are
granted residency almost instantly here. A few have also been sponsored by
employers or have married Jordanian women. But the vast majority, poor and with
few options, enter on visitor visas and soon become illegal, opening them up to
exploitation and abuse.

Human Rights Watch called on the Jordanian government last week to grant Iraqis
temporary protection and legalize their status. The group also called on the
Jordanians to halt the deportation of Iraqis who registered for temporary
protection and to admit asylum seekers, in addition to exempting Iraqis who
registered their status from having to pay stiff fines.

Iraqis are increasingly blamed for Jordan's ills. Those with cash are blamed for
doubling, and even tripling, property prices, as well as for buoying prices on
everything from tomatoes to cigarettes. (Less attention has been paid to the
broader market forces that led to the rise.)

The average price of a three-bedroom apartment in upscale West Amman has risen
to up to $150,000 from about $50,000. Apartments that once rented for $400 now
rent for $1,200, pricing out the average Jordanian, who earns between $500 and
$750 per month.

Khaled Saeed, who owns a DVD shop in downtown Amman, was saving for years to buy
an apartment near Amman's Sports City complex. He had his eye on one building
where, just a few years ago, apartments sold for the equivalent of $35,000.

Then the Iraqis came, he said.

''When I finally came to buy it after some time, I found that the price had
risen to 45,000 dinars,'' he said, amounting to almost $65,000. ''So I've
changed my mind about the Iraqis. Now I just wish they would leave so that life
would go back to normal.''

Late this summer the government loosened restrictions on private education for
Iraqis without residency here, flooding Jordanian schools with new students.
Principals have found themselves in the awkward position of telling families
they have to go elsewhere.

Inflation, too, has doubled to 6 percent from about 3.5 percent in 2005, fueled
in part by reduced subsidies on oil and gasoline, and by growing demand from
Iraqis, economists say.

Many refugees say the crackdown has focused attention on Shiites, even as the
government has hunted down Al Qaeda. Even before this, Shiite prayer halls,
known as Husseiniyas, were strictly banned here. Security officials have been
wary of Shiites seeking to organize and preach Shiite teachings. A prominent
sheik representing Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani of Iraq was deported late this
summer.

In the Jordanian town of Muta, the site of a historic battle between Muslim and
Byzantine armies,the shrine of the Shiite saint Jaffar al-Tayyar, a pilgrimage
site, has come under particularly close scrutiny lately. Last week, security men
crawled around the site, keeping an eye on the comings and goings of visitors.

Shiite pilgrims have been banned from sleeping overnight at the site and are now
allowed to stay only briefly, a shop owner at the shrine said. Where thousands
once came, the number of visitors has dropped markedly, he said, for fear of the
security men, and his sales have plummeted.

Security men at the site said they were concerned about attacks against Shiites
there, rather than trouble from the Shiites themselves.

Still many Shiites say they are increasingly bearing the brunt of the growing
frustration with the Iraqis here.

''When you say 'deported,' people typically think 'Shia' now,'' one former
Jordanian official said. ''They are afraid that they will connect with the
groups in Iraq.''

Security officials say they have sought to weed out both Sunnis and Shiites who
intend to cause trouble in Iraq, and do not differentiate between the sects.
''We don't have a problem with someone trying to advance his Shiite faith,'' the
security official said. ''But we do have a problem with someone proselytizing
and being political.''

The Iraqi exodus has sent ripples through Syria, too, where the government has
maintained an open-door policy for Iraqis, attracting mainly poor Iraqis who
have flocked to neighborhoods like Sayeda Zeynab, the site of a Shiite shrine,
creating little ghettos.

There, too, rents have risen, more than doubling in poorer areas like Jaramana,
a suburb of Damascus. Some officials have begun warning of impending electricity
and water shortages in Syria because of the influx of Iraqis. The price of
heating oil and gasoline is expected to rise along with the increased demand.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Qais Attiyeh, an Iraqi who has lived in Amman for eight years,
says he has seen disdain grow for Iraqi exiles. (Photo by Tamara Abdul Hadi for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Ex-Agent Draws 14-Year Sentence For
Smuggling

BYLINE: By STEVE BARNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 61 words


A former border patrol agent was sentenced to 14 years in a federal prison and
fined $2,500 after pleading guilty to assisting drug smugglers and selling
identification documents. The authorities said the man, David Duque Jr., 36, who
was stationed at the Falfurrias checkpoint, had assisted in the smuggling of at
least 40 kilograms of cocaine since 2002.   STEVE BARNES

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Katrina Begets A Baby Boom By Immigrants

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1672 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS


First came the storm. Then came the workers. Now comes the baby boom.

In the latest twist to the demographic transformation of New Orleans since it
was swamped by Hurricane Katrina last year, hundreds of babies are being born to
Latino immigrant workers, both legal and illegal, who flocked to the city to
toil on its reconstruction.

The throng of babies gurgling in the handful of operational maternity wards here
has come as a big surprise -- and a financial strain -- to this historically
black and white city, which before the hurricane had only a small Latino
community and virtually no experience of illegal immigration.

''Of all the myriad things that have changed after Katrina, this wasn't high on
anybody's priority list,'' said Dr. Mark Peters, chief executive of East
Jefferson General Hospital in Metairie.

Because many immigrant mothers cannot afford to pay for prenatal care or
delivery services, New Orleans's newest citizens are adding an unexpected load
to the decimated health infrastructure in a city abandoned by many of its
doctors. Much of the state-financed Charity Hospital system, which before
Hurricane Katrina provided the bulk of care to New Orleans's uninsured and
indigent population, remains closed.

Lacking health insurance and barred from most government assistance, expectant
immigrant mothers can go to only the handful of charitable clinics that are
still operating and that do not question a woman's immigration status when
offering low-cost prenatal care.

''Prenatal care is our daily nightmare,'' said Shaula Lovera, the program
coordinator for the Latino Health Access Network, an outreach service operated
by Catholic Charities.

The two health units providing prenatal care run by the Louisiana Department of
Health and Hospitals saw more than 1,200 pregnant women from January to
mid-November. Virtually all were Latino immigrants.

''Before the storm, only 2 percent were Hispanic; now about 96 percent are
Hispanic,'' said Beth Perriloux, the head nurse in the department's health unit
in Metairie.

There are so many pregnant women that the clinics have reached capacity. Dr.
Erin Brewer, the department's medical director, said, ''We've gone from having a
maternity clinic two to three days a week to five days a week.''

Many immigrant women are forgoing prenatal care and showing up, ready to
deliver, in hospital emergency rooms, where they are required to be seen even if
they are in the country illegally.

''When I felt the pains I just went to the women's and children's hospital,''
said Noemi, an illegal immigrant from Oaxaca, Mexico, who arrived in New Orleans
right after the storm as part of a cleaning crew from North Carolina. She left
the city but then returned in October, a month after giving birth to her
daughter Alejandra in Lake Charles, 200 miles west.

''If they hadn't received me, my girl would have been born in the hall,'' Noemi
said. (She asked that her last name be withheld to protect her identity.)

There has been a small Latino population in New Orleans for several decades,
mostly Hondurans who came after Hurricane Mitch battered Central America in
1998. But that population has started to grow.

According to the Louisiana Health and Population Survey, released in November,
the number of Latinos living in households in Orleans and Jefferson Parishes has
increased by about 10,000 since 2004, to 60,000, even as the total population
has fallen by about a quarter, to roughly 625,000.

Last summer, researchers at Tulane University estimated that there were 5,000 to
7,000 illegal Latino workers in Orleans Parish alone, excluding nonworking
relatives. But some community workers estimate that tens of thousands have
arrived since the storm.

Immigrants can be seen working on roofs, installing Sheetrock and laying tile
all over town, from the up-market Lakeview neighborhood in the west to East New
Orleans. At the Lowe's home improvement store in the city's Bywater
neighborhood, clusters of day laborers mill about in the parking lot every
morning, waiting for jobs.

Most are not new to the United States. They come from Texas, Florida or
California, seeking construction work that can pay $150 a day. But there are
some newcomers, including Sara Alvarado, a 26-year-old Honduran, who arrived in
the United States in August after a monthlong odyssey through Mexico with her
partner, Tony, 32.

When Ms. Alvarado finally got to New Orleans, brought into the country by
coyotes, or smugglers, who charged $6,000, she was more than six months
pregnant. The last time she had seen a doctor was four months before.

''The coyotes wanted to charge me more and bring me across in a car,'' Ms.
Alvarado said, sitting in her cramped room in a shotgun shack in the Upper Ninth
Ward that she and Tony share with four other people. ''But I didn't take a
single vitamin, and I came across that desert jumping fences and all that, and
look, here is this boy.''

She cradled a plump bundle: Jackson Antonio, an American citizen who came into
the world at Tulane-Lakeside Hospital 12 days early on Oct. 17, the day the 300
millionth American was born.

At Tulane-Lakeside, doctors are delivering 215 to 240 babies a month, which is
60 percent to 70 percent more than before Hurricane Katrina, said Andre du
Plessis, the hospital's chief operating officer.

Some of that increase is because of the lack of hospitals. But the numbers also
reflect the new population. ''Approximately 20 to 25 percent of the babies are
Hispanic,'' Mr. du Plessis said. ''Pre-Katrina, we largely didn't have a
Hispanic population.''

Dr. Kevin Work, an obstetrician who started a private practice a year before the
hurricane, decided to focus almost exclusively on the Latino population when he
saw the abundance of immigrant women at the maternity clinics run by the
Department of Health and Hospitals, where he works two and a half days a week.

''The demographics of the health units used to be 85 percent African-American,
who had Medicaid, and 15 percent other,'' Dr. Work said. ''When the clinics
reopened, I started seeing the faces changing. Now 85 to 90 percent are Hispanic
undocumented, and only 10 to 15 percent have Medicaid.''

Dr. Work has been offering a low-cost prenatal care package, charging about $800
for the full term of a pregnancy, a small fraction of the typical bill. He also
runs advertisements on the two local Spanish-language radio stations.

The boomlet of Latino babies in New Orleans poses particular challenges.
Nonemergency Medicaid is not available to illegal immigrants or even to legal
immigrants who have been in the country less than five years. Virtually none of
the immigrant mothers-to-be have private insurance. They are mostly poor. Many
fear being deported.

Hospitals will deliver these women's babies only if they arrive in labor through
the emergency room. There, emergency Medicaid pays for up to a 24-hour hospital
stay for a vaginal delivery and a 48-hour stay for a Caesarean section, Dr. Work
said.

Most of Dr. Work's patients do not speak English. At the Department of Health
and Hospitals' unit in Metairie, where he sees patients Tuesday mornings, he
relies on the ''language line,'' a phone-based translation service. Sometimes
women arrive with one of the Latina translators who prowl the clinics and charge
the patients $60 per session.

Dr. Work said he delivered 50 to 70 babies a month, most born to Latino
immigrants. He even delivered Jackson Antonio, though he could not remember
doing so, the memory lost in a blur of births.

The new population is having a tough time in New Orleans. Jackson Antonio was
required to stay 48 hours in the hospital. But Ms. Alvarado had to leave after
24. ''If I stayed longer they would charge me,'' she said. She spent the next
day looking for a car safety seat, which hospitals require to discharge new
babies.

Health workers at Catholic Charities eventually found a car seat. They also gave
her a crib, so her baby would not have to sleep on a mattress on the floor.
Volunteers at Common Ground, a nonprofit assistance organization that opened a
health clinic after the storm, have been trying to help Ms. Alvarado apply for
assistance for her child.

Still, Ms. Alvarado's life is mostly an endless hustle at the limit of
subsistence. She started Jackson Antonio straight off on baby formula because
she expected to go to work as soon as she recovered from the delivery. But she
cannot leave home, because there is nobody to care for the baby.

Her partner, Tony, who declined to provide his last name, spends most days
waiting with the day laborers at a Shell gas station near their home. But with
demand for workers slackening, he is having a hard time finding a job. Just
before Thanksgiving he worked 10 hours on an apartment building, but the woman
who hired him disappeared before paying him his promised $120.

Meanwhile, bills are piling up, starting with repayment of the $6,000 they
borrowed to pay the coyotes' fee. They have repaid only about $1,300, Ms.
Alvarado said. And they need $350 a month just for their share of rent and
utilities.

Ms. Alvarado must also send money to Honduras for her two daughters, ages 7 and
9, who live with her mother. Tony has three daughters in Honduras, too, living
with their mother.

Because Jackson Antonio is a United States citizen entitled to Medicaid, Ms.
Alvarado gets a monthly ration of nine cans of baby formula, as well as powdered
milk, canned juice, and eggs and cheese for her. But the staff at the food stamp
office told her they were required to report any applicant who was an illegal
immigrant to the authorities, so Ms. Alvarado did not apply.

She said she might return to Honduras because there was no point to staying if
she could not work. ''I came to make a future for my mother and my girls,'' she
said.

But if she can work, she will probably stay. And the baby boom may even provide
an opportunity. She said she might go into business taking care of the babies of
other Latino mothers.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2006



CORRECTION: A picture caption with the continuation of a front-page article on
Monday about the financial strain on New Orleans because of a boom in births to
indigent immigrants there misidentified a doctor at a clinic. He is Dr. Robert
Post, medical director of Daughters of Charity Services -- not Dr. Mark Peters,
chief executive of East Jefferson General Hospital in Metairie.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sara Alvarado, an illegal immigrant, with her son, Jackson
Antonio, who was born in New Orleans. Dr. Mark Peters, far left, examining a
Guatemalan man in Metairie, said an influx of Latino workers requiring medical
services was not something health officials had anticipated. (Photographs by Lee
Celano for The New York Times)(pg. A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Broader Inquiries Are Urged On Underpayment of Wages

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words


Troubled by what they call a proliferation of wage violations in New York, two
dozen immigrant and worker advocacy groups want Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer to
make the state's Labor Department move more aggressively against industries with
widespread violations.

In a report to be issued today, the groups say that instead of responding mainly
to individual worker complaints, the department should initiate broad
investigations of industries with a history of violations.

''The Department of Labor needs to shift to a more forceful strategy that uses
investigations of a whole industry to stop unscrupulous companies so that they
don't drag down the rest of an industry,'' said Annette Bernhardt, one of the
report's authors and the deputy director of poverty programs at the Brennan
Center for Justice at New York University's School of Law.

The advocacy groups, including the New York Immigration Coalition and the Latin
American Workers Project, complain that minimum wage and overtime violations are
widespread in many industries, including restaurants, landscaping, laundries,
agriculture and apparel.

''Workplace violations are becoming standard practice in many of the state's
low-wage industries,'' the report said. ''Law-abiding employers are forced into
a race to the bottom when unscrupulous competitors pay below the minimum wage.''

The groups call for legislation that would increase penalties for wage
violations. They also want the state to pursue criminal action against companies
that fire employees for filing wage complaints.

The report urges the Labor Department to speed up investigations and to insist
that violators give workers six years of back pay, as the law allows.

''Investigations often drag on for more than a year,'' said Omar Henriquez,
chairman of the Workplace Project, an immigrants' rights group based in
Hempstead on Long Island. ''When low-wage workers depend on their salaries to
survive, it's obvious they need their money as soon as possible. And if the
employer owes $10,000, we don't like it when the Labor Department negotiates so
they only have to pay $5,000.''

Many of the groups behind the report, which also include the Asian American
Legal Defense and Education Fund, MFY Legal Services and the Tompkins County
Workers Center, have complained that Gov. George E. Pataki's Labor Department
has been understaffed and unassertive.

Robert M. Lillpopp, a Labor Department spokesman, said his agency had long
pursued violations in the apparel industry and had recently created a Fair Wages
Task Force, focusing on other low-wage industries.

''We continue to be as aggressive as possible when we pursue violations,'' Mr.
Lillpopp said. ''When we get tips, we investigate.''

In 2005, the Labor Department collected $10.4 million in back wages, a 36
percent increase from 2004 and the highest amount in state history.

Denis Hughes, president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., said organized
labor would support the coalition's recommendations.

''We want a Labor Department that is an advocate for those workers who are most
apt to be exploited,'' he said. ''We want an activist Labor Department that is
reminiscent of Frances Perkins,'' who was Franklin D. Roosevelt's crusading
labor secretary and before that was New York State's industrial commissioner.

The coalition urged the department to work closely with community and immigrant
groups to educate low-wage workers about their rights. The coalition said the
department could use those groups as their eyes and ears because low-wage
workers often approach them first about workplace violations.

The report said the department needed more bilingual investigators and
recommended legislation to make it harder for employers to bypass minimum wage
and overtime laws by classifying workers as independent contractors.

Mr. Lillpopp said the Labor Department had increased its outreach efforts,
conducting 304 labor law seminars last year for 3,484 people at 309 businesses.

The coalition also urged the Labor Department not to discourage workers who are
illegal immigrants from filing complaints. Mr. Lillpopp said his department did
not take immigration status into account when deciding whether to pursue a
worker's complaint.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


A picture caption with the continuation of a front-page article on Monday about
the financial strain on New Orleans because of a boom in births to indigent
immigrants there misidentified a doctor at a clinic. He is Dr. Robert Post,
medical director of Daughters of Charity Services -- not Dr. Mark Peters, chief
executive of East Jefferson General Hospital in Metairie.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 16, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Families Figuring Out What to Do After Federal Raids

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Martin Forstenzer contributed reporting from Greeley,
Colo.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 692 words


Immigrant families scrambled yesterday to find detained relatives, arrange care
for children of deported parents and recover from the loss of work as a result
of raids this week by immigration authorities at meat-packing plants in six
states.

The raids, part of a federal operation against identity theft, had stunning
effects on the surrounding towns, residents said. In all, 1,282 legal and
illegal immigrants were arrested, and in most cases the plants, all operated by
Swift & Company of Greeley, Colo., were the largest employer around.

''Many people are still very frightened,'' Mayor Luis Aguilar of Cactus, Tex.,
said.

In Cactus, 275 employees were arrested.

In Worthington, Minn., with 230 arrests, residents said dozens of immigrants had
gone into hiding.

''I've never seen anything like it, the sadness, the emptiness, the fear,'' a
schoolteacher, Barbara Kremer, said. Ms. Kremer said she had provided shelter in
her house since the raid for 24 immigrants who were afraid to return to their
homes.

The raids, by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, netted dozens of
immigrants who were legal residents but did not have their papers with them at
work. Others arrested were illegal who have to leave the country or face
deportation.

Many have children or spouses who are legal residents or Americans, and they
have to decide whether the families will stay here or return to their home
countries.

Veronica Rodriguez Perez, 20, an American who is works on a production line at
the Swift beef-processing plant in Greeley, Colo., said she had not been able to
talk with her husband, a Guatemalan, since he was arrested on Tuesday. Mrs.
Perez said immigration agents separated during the raid from her husband,
Roberto Perez Garcia.

''They made him and myself seem like criminals,'' she said. ''He tried to give
me a kiss on the forehead, but they would not let us talk to each other.''

Mr. Perez worked in the slaughterhouse side of the plant, she said. They have an
11-month-old son who was born in Colorado. Mr. Perez, who was in the United
States illegally, had not applied for residency because of the legal costs, she
said.

Many of the arrested immigrants were taken to Camp Dodge in Johnston, Iowa, a
National Guard base. Others were bussed to an immigration detention center in
Atlanta for deportation proceedings.

The chief executive officer of Swift, Sam Rovit, said that production was
slightly slowed at the plants, but that the losses in replacing the workers
could be in the millions.

Swift executives said they had sought to work with immigration officials to
pre-empt the raids. In March, the immigration agency subpoenaed the work
documents of every Swift employee. After reviewing the papers, the agency
retained them for many employees, including 665 at a plant in Marshalltown,
Iowa, on suspicion that they were fake or stolen, Donald F. Wiseman, the Swift
general counsel, said.

Swift began to interview its employees. About 400 left the company after the
interviews, with many acknowledging that their documents were not legal, Mr.
Wiseman said. He added that the immigration agency later ordered the company to
stop the interviews.

On Nov. 28, Swift sought an injunction against the raids in Federal court in
Amarillo, Tex. Judge Mary Lou Robinson denied the request.

Mr. Rovit said Swift, third largest meatpacker in the nation, paid good wages by
industry standards, twice the minimum wage, with health benefits. With tight
profit margins, he added, Swift would be hard-pressed to replace the workers for
work, which is demanding and has historically attracted immigrants, including
immigrants without proper documents.

''Nobody wants to have illegal immigrants,'' Mr. Rovit said.

He said a continued crackdown would bring ''a shrinking in the industry, because
there is not enough labor to go around.''

Prosecutors in several states began filing criminal charges against accused
suppliers of the illegal documents. In Salt Lake City, officials unsealed a
complaint against Veronica Carrillo, a Mexican immigrant accused of selling real
United States birth certificates to Swift employees.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rocenda Arnes held her 3-month-old son on Tuesday as her husband
was held in an immigration raid at a Swift meat plant in Greeley, Colo. (Photo
by Ahmad Terry/The Rocky Mountain News, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 16, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 38 words


An article yesterday about a naturalization ceremony at the Federal Hall
National Memorial in Manhattan misstated New York State's rank among the 13
original states to approve the Constitution. It was the 11th to do so, not the
12th.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Coming to Terms With the Men on the Corner

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2481 words

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y.


WHETHER they live in homes they own or in rented rooms, the working men here
follow similar routines. They rise early, which these days means long before the
sun, then shower, shave and walk toward the train station at the edge of
Columbus Park, a speck of green amid a cluster of clapboard houses.

The men in suits march up the station steps, headed for the Metro-North trains
to Manhattan. The men wearing paint-speckled pants trudge a few yards to the
corner of Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst Place, then pace the sidewalks, coffee
cup in hand, waiting for jobs that often do not materialize.

''It's Thursday, and I haven't worked one day this week,'' said Jaime Martinez,
38, a stout Salvadoran, one recent morning, his dark eyes trained on a
landscaping truck that pulled up and quickly drove away, carrying two men.

Unpredictability permeates the lives of these men, day laborers who gather at
open-air job markets that spring up, without sanction or warning, at busy
intersections, by gas stations and outside home improvement stores, here and in
dozens of communities across the region, from Farmingville on Long Island to
Lakewood in New Jersey to Danbury in Connecticut. Invariably, their presence
yields passionate responses from residents and local officials, often torn
between those who embrace the workers and those who want to see them go.

While the number of Hispanic immigrants in the region increased by 21 percent in
the last five years, it is difficult to tell how many work as day laborers. What
is known is that most day laborers are undereducated, undocumented men from the
Latin American countryside, lured here by the prospect of a better life. Lacking
skills and legal status -- strictly speaking, under federal law, illegal
immigrants are not allowed to work, and employers are not allowed to hire them
-- they end up looking for work in landscaping and construction. They earn an
average of $10 an hour and are sometimes subjected to abuse by employers, who
deny them food, water or breaks, or refuse to pay them at day's end.

Even though many union members oppose illegal immigration, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and
several individual unions have thrown their support behind day laborers, seeing
them as exploited workers who do not earn enough and undercut wages for other
workers. Organized labor has embraced them as part of its broader strategy to
attract immigrants to the labor movement.

Still, their presence has sparked concerns among townspeople, who say day
laborers litter and urinate and loiter in the streets. Some Farmingville
residents say their presence hurts real estate values. They have even proposed
creating a separate village so prices of homes to the west of Nicolls Road, a
north-south highway, do not suffer because of laborers gathered to the east.

''The real estate brokers have a hard time selling homes here because most
people associate Farmingville with day laborers,'' said Ken Kellaher, 58, who is
leading the effort to create the new village, to be called Oak Hills. Mr.
Kellaher lives to the west of Nicolls Road, in a quaint, wealthier section of
Farmingville, a hamlet within the town of Brookhaven. ''We feel that we need to
redefine our community,'' he said.

Local officials, for their part, find themselves in a bind, trying to balance
the pressure from residents, who demand that something be done about men who
they say are destroying their quality of life, with the workers' right to
convene.

Now, with a recent federal court ruling on the response by police and municipal
officials in Mamaroneck to concerns about day laborers, towns are hoping for
guidance from the courts. Last month, Judge Colleen McMahon of Federal District
Court ruled on behalf of a group of day laborers who had sued the village of
Mamaroneck, in southern Westchester County, saying its officials and police
officers harassed them because they are Hispanic. The judge gave the town and
the laborers until Jan. 5 to come up with a solution, a development that is
being closely watched by municipal leaders elsewhere.

The ruling in New York came just a few weeks before borough officials in
Freehold, in Monmouth County, N.J., settled a three-year-old federal lawsuit
filed by day laborers. The settlement stipulates that laborers would no longer
be fined for soliciting work in public places. It also prevents building
inspectors and police officers from entering laborers' homes without consent, in
what immigration advocates said was the selective persecution of Latinos.

In a few cases, municipal governments and community groups have compromised by
designating a place -- often a building or an empty lot -- where workers and
contractors can link up. At least 63 hiring sites operate in 17 states,
including about 10 seasonal and year-round sites in the region, according to
local officials and a national survey of 2,600 day laborers released earlier
this year.

Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said hiring sites ''are a matter
of common sense.''

''You get the problem off the streets, so that it's not a visual issue or a
littering issue or a urinating-in-public issue,'' he said. ''And at the same
time, you help these men who are just trying to live the American dream and give
them a safe place to assemble.''

In 1994, as mayor of Glen Cove, N.Y., Mr. Suozzi spearheaded the creation of the
first hiring site on the East Coast, muffling the brewing discontent about the
growing number of men who had been assembling outside a deli and along roadways.
Since then, upward of 40 men convene at a sprawling ground-floor office on Sea
Cliff Avenue every morning, where the walls are lined with posters, each
depicting a letter of the alphabet and a corresponding tool -- P for pliers, T
for tape measure, W for wrench.

Twice a week, a volunteer offers English lessons. Recently, the men pooled their
money to buy a coffeemaker and a Christmas tree.

''If we're not on the streets, we don't bother anybody and the police don't
bother us,'' said a 44-year-old Argentine laborer, who said he shows up every
morning, usually finding work.

Other communities have considered similar sites, but not all have been
successful. In some towns, they have chosen places that are too isolated, as in
Lakewood, where the site is four miles from the commercial district and thus
hard to reach for workers, who rarely have cars. Other towns have declined to
devote municipal dollars to help these sites get started, saying it is not a
local mandate to back enterprises that help mostly illegal immigrants find work.

''We've been very clear that we're not going to spend any taxpayer money to
create a facility for the day laborers, but we're certainly going to be
supportive if any community group tries to resolve the situation on their own,''
Mayor Mark Boughton of Danbury said in an interview. ''Local government has to
walk a very fine line here because federal law is clear: you can't aid or abet
somebody who is here illegally and help them find work.''

The response in a number of communities has been to step up enforcement, through
ordinances, increased police patrols or a combination of both. Often, the police
will cite workers and the contractors who pull up to hire them for small
infractions -- from littering to loitering to impeding traffic. But in the eyes
of the court, some communities have pushed too far.

In the Mamaroneck case, the plaintiffs told the court that police cruisers
followed them, lights flashing. At times, officers used words or harsh gestures
to order them off sidewalks; other times, officers just stared, the plaintiffs
said.

Steve Garcia, one contractor who testified, said in an interview that he had
hired laborers in Mamaroneck. But after he was ticketed in August for pulling
away from a curb without signaling, right after picking up a few workers, he
began hiring workers elsewhere. ''I wanted to help the guys,'' he said, but ''I
didn't need the trouble.''

The decision in Mamaroneck caught the attention of many municipal officials.
Mayor Paul F. Rickenbach Jr. of East Hampton, the affluent village on the east
end of Long Island, said he read it several times, trying to figure out what
impact, if any, it might have on his community.

For months, police officers have been posted near the East Hampton railroad
station, watching day laborers and contractors to make sure no one breaks local
laws, Mayor Rickenbach said. In November 2005, the police ran a sting operation
of sorts, jotting down the license plate numbers of cars that picked up workers,
then shipping the information to the Internal Revenue Service and federal
immigration authorities.

''We were not targeting any particular ethnic group,'' said Mayor Rickenbach, a
former East Hampton police detective who has been in office since 1992. ''We
were just being mindful of the number of individuals who were there and making
certain that the people who were hiring these individuals were aware of their
responsibilities, such as withholding taxes on the wages they were paying these
workers and hiring people who are authorized to work.''

''In no way do we intend to be discriminatory,'' he added. ''We don't go out
soliciting documentation from the workers.''

The nation's day-laborer phenomenon traces its roots to the 18th century, when
European immigrants gathered on city streets, seeking work as chimney sweeps,
wood cutters and dock hands. In the mid-1800s, in port cities in the Northeast,
foremen picked the day's dock help from a pool of workers gathered around him.
Irish men and black women found jobs at New York's hiring sites in the early
20th century, while in California, the sites attracted Mexicans looking for
seasonal farm work.

The laborers who arrived in the last 10 years come mostly from Mexico,
Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, often bypassing traditional ports of entry
like New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles and settling, instead, in the
suburbs, where jobs abound, according to a national survey of day laborers
released in January.

These men, many of whom send part of their earnings to the families they left
behind, worked on farms or in factories in their home countries, the survey
says. Most had not heard about the day-laborer market until arriving and joined
this line of work as a way of gaining a foothold here.

Abel Valenzuela Jr., a co-author of the national survey, ''On the Corner: Day
Labor in the United States,'' noted that employers rarely withhold taxes on
wages or pay Social Security and workers' compensation benefits, making a day
laborer a lot cheaper to hire. In short, he said, day laborers are as much a
byproduct of immigration as they are of the economy.

''Day labor is part of a larger national trend, but it just happens to be at the
low end of this trend, since these men are looking for work on street corners,
as opposed to temp staffing agencies or through the part-time job ads they see
in the newspaper,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, director of the Center for the Study of
Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles.

The survey estimates the number of day laborers nationwide at 120,000, a tiny
fraction of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. About half the day
laborers are in the West, about 20 percent in the East and Southwest, 12 percent
in the South and 4 percent in the Midwest, according to the survey, based on
interviews with 2,600 day laborers in 139 municipalities.

MR. MARTINEZ, the Salvadoran immigrant, used to plant corn, rice and potatoes in
a small plot behind his family's home in the impoverished village of Sonsonate.
One of his uncles came to Mamaroneck in the 1990s and wrote to him that there
were jobs that would pay him enough to support his elderly parents.

In 2001, Mr. Martinez moved to Mamaroneck, finding a busboy job at a restaurant
in nearby Harrison. Two years later, the restaurant closed and Mr. Martinez was
unemployed, so he joined the ranks of men who line the sidewalks near Columbus
Park every morning from 6 to 11.

''I know how to paint walls, do carpentry, clean and landscape,'' he said.
''We're not office people, like the people who take the train every day. But
we're intelligent, and we work hard.''

Day laborers will tell you they earn about $10 an hour, which would make for a
decent living -- if work were not so scarce. In the summer, they work three or
four days a week, earning up to $1,400 a month. But once it turns cold, the
laborers are lucky to work five or six days a month.

To make ends meet, they share apartments with other men, sometimes in unsafe,
overcrowded homes. They often take turns performing household tasks, like
cooking and cleaning.

''Most of us are alone here, so our roommates become our family,'' said Juan
Garcia, 40, a Mexican day laborer with a neat goatee.

If they are not hired, they spend the day at home or, if it is warm, sitting on
a park bench with a Spanish-language newspaper or an American magazine, trying
to make sense of a language few of them know. On Sundays, some go to church,
while others walk the streets. Mr. Martinez enjoys strolling along Fordham
Avenue in the Bronx. Mr. Garcia buys a phone card and talks for hours to his
wife and three children in Tenancingo, Mexico, where he used to eke out a living
growing sugar cane and raising livestock.

''I used to go home every year, around this time of the year, and come back in
March,'' he said. ''But I haven't earned enough this year.''

This spring and summer were unusually difficult for day laborers in Mamaroneck
and in other places where increased enforcement has driven contractors away,
according to at least a dozen workers and contractors interviewed in
Westchester, New Jersey and Long Island.

In Danbury, laborers have avoided gathering at Kennedy Park since 11
undocumented Ecuadoreans were arrested in September by federal immigration
officials posing as contractors.

''If among us immigrants there are criminals, then let the judicial process take
over,'' said Wilson Hernandez, the vice president of the Ecuadorean Civic Center
in Danbury.

''But it's not fair that undocumented immigrants are lumped together with
terrorists,'' he said. ''It's not fair that someone who risked life and limb to
come to this country, to cross the border, be considered a criminal solely
because he came here to work.''

The few men who still gather at the park have been so scared since the raid that
they walked away from a reporter without a word, like children taught not to
talk to strangers.

The civic center and other groups are working together to build a hiring site
behind the house occupied by the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury, a few
blocks from City Hall, on West Street. They hope to have it ready by spring,
when crews will begin constructing 500 luxury condos across from Kennedy Park,
displacing the day laborers.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about day laborers in the region misstated
the name of a street in the Bronx where one of the laborers enjoys strolling. It
is Fordham Road, not Fordham Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: READY AND WILLING -- Day laborers seeking work in Mamaroneck,
N.Y., and, at right, some who found it. Some residents complain about them,
others defend them. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AN UNCERTAIN LIFE -- In Mamaroneck, N.Y., above, a judge intervened after
accusations of police harassment of day laborers who gather on the streets. At a
hiring site in Glen Cove, N.Y., right, a wall is lined with letters and English
words to improve the vocabularies of workers, many of whom are Hispanic and
speak little English. In Stamford, bottom left, laborers gather in an area that
is designated as a hassle-free zone. (Photos by Above and below, Librado
Romero/The New York Times)
 (Photos by Left and above, Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Coming to Terms With the Men on the Corner

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2481 words

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y.


WHETHER they live in homes they own or in rented rooms, the working men here
follow similar routines. They rise early, which these days means long before the
sun, then shower, shave and walk toward the train station at the edge of
Columbus Park, a speck of green amid a cluster of clapboard houses.

The men in suits march up the station steps, headed for the Metro-North trains
to Manhattan. The men wearing paint-speckled pants trudge a few yards to the
corner of Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst Place, then pace the sidewalks, coffee
cup in hand, waiting for jobs that often do not materialize.

''It's Thursday, and I haven't worked one day this week,'' said Jaime Martinez,
38, a stout Salvadoran, one recent morning, his dark eyes trained on a
landscaping truck that pulled up and quickly drove away, carrying two men.

Unpredictability permeates the lives of these men, day laborers who gather at
open-air job markets that spring up, without sanction or warning, at busy
intersections, by gas stations and outside home improvement stores, here and in
dozens of communities across the region, from Farmingville on Long Island to
Lakewood in New Jersey to Danbury in Connecticut. Invariably, their presence
yields passionate responses from residents and local officials, often torn
between those who embrace the workers and those who want to see them go.

While the number of Hispanic immigrants in the region increased by 21 percent in
the last five years, it is difficult to tell how many work as day laborers. What
is known is that most day laborers are undereducated, undocumented men from the
Latin American countryside, lured here by the prospect of a better life. Lacking
skills and legal status -- strictly speaking, under federal law, illegal
immigrants are not allowed to work, and employers are not allowed to hire them
-- they end up looking for work in landscaping and construction. They earn an
average of $10 an hour and are sometimes subjected to abuse by employers, who
deny them food, water or breaks, or refuse to pay them at day's end.

Even though many union members oppose illegal immigration, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and
several individual unions have thrown their support behind day laborers, seeing
them as exploited workers who do not earn enough and undercut wages for other
workers. Organized labor has embraced them as part of its broader strategy to
attract immigrants to the labor movement.

Still, their presence has sparked concerns among townspeople, who say day
laborers litter and urinate and loiter in the streets. Some Farmingville
residents say their presence hurts real estate values. They have even proposed
creating a separate village so prices of homes to the west of Nicolls Road, a
north-south highway, do not suffer because of laborers gathered to the east.

''The real estate brokers have a hard time selling homes here because most
people associate Farmingville with day laborers,'' said Ken Kellaher, 58, who is
leading the effort to create the new village, to be called Oak Hills. Mr.
Kellaher lives to the west of Nicolls Road, in a quaint, wealthier section of
Farmingville, a hamlet within the town of Brookhaven. ''We feel that we need to
redefine our community,'' he said.

Local officials, for their part, find themselves in a bind, trying to balance
the pressure from residents, who demand that something be done about men who
they say are destroying their quality of life, with the workers' right to
convene.

Now, with a recent federal court ruling on the response by police and municipal
officials in Mamaroneck to concerns about day laborers, towns are hoping for
guidance from the courts. Last month, Judge Colleen McMahon of Federal District
Court ruled on behalf of a group of day laborers who had sued the village of
Mamaroneck, in southern Westchester County, saying its officials and police
officers harassed them because they are Hispanic. The judge gave the town and
the laborers until Jan. 5 to come up with a solution, a development that is
being closely watched by municipal leaders elsewhere.

The ruling in New York came just a few weeks before borough officials in
Freehold, in Monmouth County, N.J., settled a three-year-old federal lawsuit
filed by day laborers. The settlement stipulates that laborers would no longer
be fined for soliciting work in public places. It also prevents building
inspectors and police officers from entering laborers' homes without consent, in
what immigration advocates said was the selective persecution of Latinos.

In a few cases, municipal governments and community groups have compromised by
designating a place -- often a building or an empty lot -- where workers and
contractors can link up. At least 63 hiring sites operate in 17 states,
including about 10 seasonal and year-round sites in the region, according to
local officials and a national survey of 2,600 day laborers released earlier
this year.

Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said hiring sites ''are a matter
of common sense.''

''You get the problem off the streets, so that it's not a visual issue or a
littering issue or a urinating-in-public issue,'' he said. ''And at the same
time, you help these men who are just trying to live the American dream and give
them a safe place to assemble.''

In 1994, as mayor of Glen Cove, N.Y., Mr. Suozzi spearheaded the creation of the
first hiring site on the East Coast, muffling the brewing discontent about the
growing number of men who had been assembling outside a deli and along roadways.
Since then, upward of 40 men convene at a sprawling ground-floor office on Sea
Cliff Avenue every morning, where the walls are lined with posters, each
depicting a letter of the alphabet and a corresponding tool -- P for pliers, T
for tape measure, W for wrench.

Twice a week, a volunteer offers English lessons. Recently, the men pooled their
money to buy a coffeemaker and a Christmas tree.

''If we're not on the streets, we don't bother anybody and the police don't
bother us,'' said a 44-year-old Argentine laborer, who said he shows up every
morning, usually finding work.

Other communities have considered similar sites, but not all have been
successful. In some towns, they have chosen places that are too isolated, as in
Lakewood, where the site is four miles from the commercial district and thus
hard to reach for workers, who rarely have cars. Other towns have declined to
devote municipal dollars to help these sites get started, saying it is not a
local mandate to back enterprises that help mostly illegal immigrants find work.

''We've been very clear that we're not going to spend any taxpayer money to
create a facility for the day laborers, but we're certainly going to be
supportive if any community group tries to resolve the situation on their own,''
Mayor Mark Boughton of Danbury said in an interview. ''Local government has to
walk a very fine line here because federal law is clear: you can't aid or abet
somebody who is here illegally and help them find work.''

The response in a number of communities has been to step up enforcement, through
ordinances, increased police patrols or a combination of both. Often, the police
will cite workers and the contractors who pull up to hire them for small
infractions -- from littering to loitering to impeding traffic. But in the eyes
of the court, some communities have pushed too far.

In the Mamaroneck case, the plaintiffs told the court that police cruisers
followed them, lights flashing. At times, officers used words or harsh gestures
to order them off sidewalks; other times, officers just stared, the plaintiffs
said.

Steve Garcia, one contractor who testified, said in an interview that he had
hired laborers in Mamaroneck. But after he was ticketed in August for pulling
away from a curb without signaling, right after picking up a few workers, he
began hiring workers elsewhere. ''I wanted to help the guys,'' he said, but ''I
didn't need the trouble.''

The decision in Mamaroneck caught the attention of many municipal officials.
Mayor Paul F. Rickenbach Jr. of East Hampton, the affluent village on the east
end of Long Island, said he read it several times, trying to figure out what
impact, if any, it might have on his community.

For months, police officers have been posted near the East Hampton railroad
station, watching day laborers and contractors to make sure no one breaks local
laws, Mayor Rickenbach said. In November 2005, the police ran a sting operation
of sorts, jotting down the license plate numbers of cars that picked up workers,
then shipping the information to the Internal Revenue Service and federal
immigration authorities.

''We were not targeting any particular ethnic group,'' said Mayor Rickenbach, a
former East Hampton police detective who has been in office since 1992. ''We
were just being mindful of the number of individuals who were there and making
certain that the people who were hiring these individuals were aware of their
responsibilities, such as withholding taxes on the wages they were paying these
workers and hiring people who are authorized to work.''

''In no way do we intend to be discriminatory,'' he added. ''We don't go out
soliciting documentation from the workers.''

The nation's day-laborer phenomenon traces its roots to the 18th century, when
European immigrants gathered on city streets, seeking work as chimney sweeps,
wood cutters and dock hands. In the mid-1800s, in port cities in the Northeast,
foremen picked the day's dock help from a pool of workers gathered around him.
Irish men and black women found jobs at New York's hiring sites in the early
20th century, while in California, the sites attracted Mexicans looking for
seasonal farm work.

The laborers who arrived in the last 10 years come mostly from Mexico,
Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, often bypassing traditional ports of entry
like New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles and settling, instead, in the
suburbs, where jobs abound, according to a national survey of day laborers
released in January.

These men, many of whom send part of their earnings to the families they left
behind, worked on farms or in factories in their home countries, the survey
says. Most had not heard about the day-laborer market until arriving and joined
this line of work as a way of gaining a foothold here.

Abel Valenzuela Jr., a co-author of the national survey, ''On the Corner: Day
Labor in the United States,'' noted that employers rarely withhold taxes on
wages or pay Social Security and workers' compensation benefits, making a day
laborer a lot cheaper to hire. In short, he said, day laborers are as much a
byproduct of immigration as they are of the economy.

''Day labor is part of a larger national trend, but it just happens to be at the
low end of this trend, since these men are looking for work on street corners,
as opposed to temp staffing agencies or through the part-time job ads they see
in the newspaper,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, director of the Center for the Study of
Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles.

The survey estimates the number of day laborers nationwide at 120,000, a tiny
fraction of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. About half the day
laborers are in the West, about 20 percent in the East and Southwest, 12 percent
in the South and 4 percent in the Midwest, according to the survey, based on
interviews with 2,600 day laborers in 139 municipalities.

MR. MARTINEZ, the Salvadoran immigrant, used to plant corn, rice and potatoes in
a small plot behind his family's home in the impoverished village of Sonsonate.
One of his uncles came to Mamaroneck in the 1990s and wrote to him that there
were jobs that would pay him enough to support his elderly parents.

In 2001, Mr. Martinez moved to Mamaroneck, finding a busboy job at a restaurant
in nearby Harrison. Two years later, the restaurant closed and Mr. Martinez was
unemployed, so he joined the ranks of men who line the sidewalks near Columbus
Park every morning from 6 to 11.

''I know how to paint walls, do carpentry, clean and landscape,'' he said.
''We're not office people, like the people who take the train every day. But
we're intelligent, and we work hard.''

Day laborers will tell you they earn about $10 an hour, which would make for a
decent living -- if work were not so scarce. In the summer, they work three or
four days a week, earning up to $1,400 a month. But once it turns cold, the
laborers are lucky to work five or six days a month.

To make ends meet, they share apartments with other men, sometimes in unsafe,
overcrowded homes. They often take turns performing household tasks, like
cooking and cleaning.

''Most of us are alone here, so our roommates become our family,'' said Juan
Garcia, 40, a Mexican day laborer with a neat goatee.

If they are not hired, they spend the day at home or, if it is warm, sitting on
a park bench with a Spanish-language newspaper or an American magazine, trying
to make sense of a language few of them know. On Sundays, some go to church,
while others walk the streets. Mr. Martinez enjoys strolling along Fordham
Avenue in the Bronx. Mr. Garcia buys a phone card and talks for hours to his
wife and three children in Tenancingo, Mexico, where he used to eke out a living
growing sugar cane and raising livestock.

''I used to go home every year, around this time of the year, and come back in
March,'' he said. ''But I haven't earned enough this year.''

This spring and summer were unusually difficult for day laborers in Mamaroneck
and in other places where increased enforcement has driven contractors away,
according to at least a dozen workers and contractors interviewed in
Westchester, New Jersey and Long Island.

In Danbury, laborers have avoided gathering at Kennedy Park since 11
undocumented Ecuadoreans were arrested in September by federal immigration
officials posing as contractors.

''If among us immigrants there are criminals, then let the judicial process take
over,'' said Wilson Hernandez, the vice president of the Ecuadorean Civic Center
in Danbury.

''But it's not fair that undocumented immigrants are lumped together with
terrorists,'' he said. ''It's not fair that someone who risked life and limb to
come to this country, to cross the border, be considered a criminal solely
because he came here to work.''

The few men who still gather at the park have been so scared since the raid that
they walked away from a reporter without a word, like children taught not to
talk to strangers.

The civic center and other groups are working together to build a hiring site
behind the house occupied by the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury, a few
blocks from City Hall, on West Street. They hope to have it ready by spring,
when crews will begin constructing 500 luxury condos across from Kennedy Park,
displacing the day laborers.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about day laborers in the region misstated
the name of a street in the Bronx where one of the laborers enjoys strolling. It
is Fordham Road, not Fordham Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: READY AND WILLING -- Day laborers seeking work in Mamaroneck
and, at right, some who found it. Some residents complain about them, others
defend them. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AN UNCERTAIN LIFE -- In Mamaroneck, above, a judge intervened after accusations
of police harassment of day laborers who gather on the streets. At a hiring site
in Glen Cove, N.Y., right, a wall is lined with letters and English words to
improve the vocabularies of workers, many of whom are Hispanic and speak little
English. In Stamford, Conn., bottom left, laborers gather in an area that is
designated as a hassle-free zone. (Photos by Above and below, Librado Romero/The
New York Times)
 (Photos by Left and above, Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Coming to Terms With the Men on the Corner

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2474 words

DATELINE: MAMARONECK


WHETHER they live in homes they own or in rented rooms, the working men here
follow similar routines. They rise early, which these days means long before the
sun, then shower, shave and walk toward the train station at the edge of
Columbus Park, a speck of green amid a cluster of clapboard houses.

The men in suits march up the station steps, headed for the Metro-North trains
to Manhattan. The men wearing paint-speckled pants trudge a few yards to the
corner of Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst Place, then pace the sidewalks, coffee
cup in hand, waiting for jobs that often do not materialize.

''It's Thursday, and I haven't worked one day this week,'' said Jaime Martinez,
38, a stout Salvadoran, one recent morning, his dark eyes trained on a
landscaping truck that pulled up and quickly drove away, carrying two men.

Unpredictability permeates the lives of these men, day laborers who gather at
open-air job markets that spring up, without sanction or warning, at busy
intersections, by gas stations and outside home improvement stores, here and in
dozens of communities across the region, from Farmingville on Long Island to
Lakewood in New Jersey to Danbury in Connecticut. Invariably, their presence
yields passionate responses from residents and local officials, often torn
between those who embrace the workers and those who want to see them go.

While the number of Hispanic immigrants in the region increased by 21 percent in
the last five years, it is difficult to tell how many work as day laborers. What
is known is that most day laborers are undereducated, undocumented men from the
Latin American countryside, lured here by the prospect of a better life. Lacking
skills and legal status -- strictly speaking, under federal law, illegal
immigrants are not allowed to work, and employers are not allowed to hire them
-- they end up looking for work in landscaping and construction. They earn an
average of $10 an hour and are sometimes subjected to abuse by employers, who
deny them food, water or breaks, or refuse to pay them at day's end.

Even though many union members oppose illegal immigration, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and
several individual unions have thrown their support behind day laborers, seeing
them as exploited workers who do not earn enough and undercut wages for other
workers. Organized labor has embraced them as part of its broader strategy to
attract immigrants to the labor movement.

Still, their presence has sparked concerns among townspeople, who say day
laborers litter and urinate and loiter in the streets. Some Farmingville
residents say their presence hurts real estate values. They have even proposed
creating a separate village so prices of homes to the west of Nicolls Road, a
north-south highway, do not suffer because of laborers gathered to the east.

''The real estate brokers have a hard time selling homes here because most
people associate Farmingville with day laborers,'' said Ken Kellaher, 58, who is
leading the effort to create the new village, to be called Oak Hills. Mr.
Kellaher lives to the west of Nicolls Road, in a quaint, wealthier section of
Farmingville, a hamlet within the town of Brookhaven. ''We feel that we need to
redefine our community,'' he said.

Local officials, for their part, find themselves in a bind, trying to balance
the pressure from residents, who demand that something be done about men who
they say are destroying their quality of life, with the workers' right to
convene.

Now, with a recent federal court ruling on the response by police and municipal
officials in Mamaroneck to concerns about day laborers, towns are hoping for
guidance from the courts. Last month, Judge Colleen McMahon of Federal District
Court ruled on behalf of a group of day laborers who had sued the village,
saying its officials and police officers harassed them because they are
Hispanic. The judge gave the town and the laborers until Jan. 5 to come up with
a solution, a development that is being closely watched by municipal leaders
elsewhere.

The ruling in New York came just a few weeks before borough officials in
Freehold, in Monmouth County, N.J., settled a three-year-old federal lawsuit
filed by day laborers. The settlement stipulates that laborers would no longer
be fined for soliciting work in public places. It also prevents building
inspectors and police officers from entering laborers' homes without consent, in
what immigration advocates said was the selective persecution of Latinos.

In a few cases, municipal governments and community groups have compromised by
designating a place -- often a building or an empty lot -- where workers and
contractors can link up. At least 63 hiring sites operate in 17 states,
including about 10 seasonal and year-round sites in the region, according to
local officials and a national survey of 2,600 day laborers released earlier
this year.

Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said hiring sites ''are a matter
of common sense.''

''You get the problem off the streets, so that it's not a visual issue or a
littering issue or a urinating-in-public issue,'' he said. ''And at the same
time, you help these men who are just trying to live the American dream and give
them a safe place to assemble.''

In 1994, as mayor of Glen Cove, N.Y., Mr. Suozzi spearheaded the creation of the
first hiring site on the East Coast, muffling the brewing discontent about the
growing number of men who had been assembling outside a deli and along roadways.
Since then, upward of 40 men convene at a sprawling ground-floor office on Sea
Cliff Avenue every morning, where the walls are lined with posters, each
depicting a letter of the alphabet and a corresponding tool -- P for pliers, T
for tape measure, W for wrench.

Twice a week, a volunteer offers English lessons. Recently, the men pooled their
money to buy a coffeemaker and a Christmas tree.

''If we're not on the streets, we don't bother anybody and the police don't
bother us,'' said a 44-year-old Argentine laborer, who said he shows up every
morning, usually finding work.

Other communities have considered similar sites, but not all have been
successful. In some towns, they have chosen places that are too isolated, as in
Lakewood, where the site is four miles from the commercial district and thus
hard to reach for workers, who rarely have cars. Other towns have declined to
devote municipal dollars to help these sites get started, saying it is not a
local mandate to back enterprises that help mostly illegal immigrants find work.

''We've been very clear that we're not going to spend any taxpayer money to
create a facility for the day laborers, but we're certainly going to be
supportive if any community group tries to resolve the situation on their own,''
Mayor Mark Boughton of Danbury said in an interview. ''Local government has to
walk a very fine line here because federal law is clear: you can't aid or abet
somebody who is here illegally and help them find work.''

The response in a number of communities has been to step up enforcement, through
ordinances, increased police patrols or a combination of both. Often, the police
will cite workers and the contractors who pull up to hire them for small
infractions -- from littering to loitering to impeding traffic. But in the eyes
of the court, some communities have pushed too far.

In the Mamaroneck case, the plaintiffs told the court that police cruisers
followed them, lights flashing. At times, officers used words or harsh gestures
to order them off sidewalks; other times, officers just stared, the plaintiffs
said.

Steve Garcia, one contractor who testified, said in an interview that he
hadhired laborers in Mamaroneck. But after he was ticketed in August for pulling
away from a curb without signaling, right after picking up a few workers, he
began hiring workers elsewhere. ''I wanted to help the guys,'' he said, but ''I
didn't need the trouble.''

The decision in Mamaroneck caught the attention of many municipal officials.
Mayor Paul F. Rickenbach Jr. of East Hampton, the affluent village on the east
end of Long Island, said he read it several times, trying to figure out what
impact, if any, it might have on his community.

For months, police officers have been posted near the East Hampton railroad
station, watching day laborers and contractors to make sure no one breaks local
laws, Mayor Rickenbach said. In November 2005, the police ran a sting operation
of sorts, jotting down the license plate numbers of cars that picked up workers,
then shipping the information to the Internal Revenue Service and federal
immigration authorities.

''We were not targeting any particular ethnic group,'' said Mayor Rickenbach, a
former East Hampton police detective who has been in office since 1992. ''We
were just being mindful of the number of individuals who were there and making
certain that the people who were hiring these individuals were aware of their
responsibilities, such as withholding taxes on the wages they were paying these
workers and hiring people who are authorized to work.''

''In no way do we intend to be discriminatory,'' he added. ''We don't go out
soliciting documentation from the workers.''

The nation's day-laborer phenomenon traces its roots to the 18th century, when
European immigrants gathered on city streets, seeking work as chimney sweeps,
wood cutters and dock hands. In the mid-1800s, in port cities in the Northeast,
foremen picked the day's dock help from a pool of workers gathered around him.
Irish men and black women found jobs at New York's hiring sites in the early
20th century, while in California, the sites attracted Mexicans looking for
seasonal farm work.

The laborers who arrived in the last 10 years come mostly from Mexico,
Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, often bypassing traditional ports of entry
like New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles and settling, instead, in the
suburbs, where jobs abound, according to a national survey of day laborers
released in January.

These men, many of whom send part of their earnings to the families they left
behind, worked on farms or in factories in their home countries, the survey
says. Most had not heard about the day-laborer market until arriving and joined
this line of work as a way of gaining a foothold here.

Abel Valenzuela Jr., a co-author of the national survey, ''On the Corner: Day
Labor in the United States,'' noted that employers rarely withhold taxes on
wages or pay Social Security and workers' compensation benefits, making a day
laborer a lot cheaper to hire. In short, he said, day laborers are as much a
byproduct of immigration as they are of the economy.

''Day labor is part of a larger national trend, but it just happens to be at the
low end of this trend, since these men are looking for work on street corners,
as opposed to temp staffing agencies or through the part-time job ads they see
in the newspaper,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, director of the Center for the Study of
Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles.

The survey estimates the number of day laborers nationwide at 120,000, a tiny
fraction of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. About half the day
laborers are in the West, about 20 percent in the East and Southwest, 12 percent
in the South and 4 percent in the Midwest, according to the survey, based on
interviews with 2,600 day laborers in 139 municipalities.

MR. MARTINEZ, the Salvadoran immigrant, used to plant corn, rice and potatoes in
a small plot behind his family's home in the impoverished village of Sonsonate.
One of his uncles came to Mamaroneck in the 1990s and wrote to him that there
were jobs that would pay him enough to support his elderly parents.

In 2001, Mr. Martinez moved to Mamaroneck, finding a busboy job at a restaurant
in nearby Harrison. Two years later, the restaurant closed and Mr. Martinez was
unemployed, so he joined the ranks of men who line the sidewalks near Columbus
Park every morning from 6 to 11.

''I know how to paint walls, do carpentry, clean and landscape,'' he said.
''We're not office people, like the people who take the train every day. But
we're intelligent, and we work hard.''

Day laborers will tell you they earn about $10 an hour, which would make for a
decent living -- if work were not so scarce. In the summer, they work three or
four days a week, earning up to $1,400 a month. But once it turns cold, the
laborers are lucky to work five or six days a month.

To make ends meet, they share apartments with other men, sometimes in unsafe,
overcrowded homes. They often take turns performing household tasks, like
cooking and cleaning.

''Most of us are alone here, so our roommates become our family,'' said Juan
Garcia, 40, a Mexican day laborer with a neat goatee.

If they are not hired, they spend the day at home or, if it is warm, sitting on
a park bench with a Spanish-language newspaper or an American magazine, trying
to make sense of a language few of them know. On Sundays, some go to church,
while others walk the streets. Mr. Martinez enjoys strolling along Fordham
Avenue in the Bronx. Mr. Garcia buys a phone card and talks for hours to his
wife and three children in Tenancingo, Mexico, where he used to eke out a living
growing sugar cane and raising livestock.

''I used to go home every year, around this time of the year, and come back in
March,'' he said. ''But I haven't earned enough this year.''

This spring and summer were unusually difficult for day laborers in Mamaroneck
and in other places where increased enforcement has driven contractors away,
according to at least a dozen workers and contractors interviewed in
Westchester, New Jersey and Long Island.

In Danbury, laborers have avoided gathering at Kennedy Park since 11
undocumented Ecuadoreans were arrested in September by federal immigration
officials posing as contractors.

''If among us immigrants there are criminals, then let the judicial process take
over,'' said Wilson Hernandez, the vice president of the Ecuadorean Civic Center
in Danbury.

''But it's not fair that undocumented immigrants are lumped together with
terrorists,'' he said. ''It's not fair that someone who risked life and limb to
come to this country, to cross the border, be considered a criminal solely
because he came here to work.''

The few men who still gather at the park have been so scared since the raid that
they walked away from a reporter without a word, like children taught not to
talk to strangers.

The civic center and other groups are working together to build a hiring site
behind the house occupied by the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury, a few
blocks from City Hall, on West Street. They hope to have it ready by spring,
when crews will begin constructing 500 luxury condos across from Kennedy Park,
displacing the day laborers.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about day laborers in the region misstated
the name of a street in the Bronx where one of the laborers enjoys strolling. It
is Fordham Road, not Fordham Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: READY AND WILLING -- Day laborers seeking work in Mamaroneck
and, at right, some who found it. Some residents complain about them, others
defend them. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AN UNCERTAIN LIFE -- In Mamaroneck, above, a judge intervened after accusations
of police harassment of day laborers who gather on the streets. At a hiring site
in Glen Cove, N.Y., right, a wall is lined with letters and English words to
improve the vocabularies of workers, many of whom are Hispanic and speak little
English. In Stamford, Conn., bottom left, laborers gather in an area that is
designated as a hassle-free zone. (Photos by Above and below, Librado Romero/The
New York Times)
 (Photos by Left and above, Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Coming to Terms With the Men on the Corner

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2480 words

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y.


WHETHER they live in homes they own or in rented rooms, the working men here
follow similar routines. They rise early, which these days means long before the
sun, then shower, shave and walk toward the train station at the edge of
Columbus Park, a speck of green amid a cluster of clapboard houses.

The men in suits march up the station steps, headed for the Metro-North trains
to Manhattan. The men wearing paint-speckled pants trudge a few yards to the
corner of Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst Place, then pace the sidewalks, coffee
cup in hand, waiting for jobs that often do not materialize.

''It's Thursday, and I haven't worked one day this week,'' said Jaime Martinez,
38, a stout Salvadoran, one recent morning, his dark eyes trained on a
landscaping truck that pulled up and quickly drove away, carrying two men.

Unpredictability permeates the lives of these men, day laborers who gather at
open-air job markets that spring up, without sanction or warning, at busy
intersections, by gas stations and outside home improvement stores, here and in
dozens of communities across the region, from Farmingville on Long Island to
Lakewood in New Jersey to Danbury in Connecticut. Invariably, their presence
yields passionate responses from residents and local officials, often torn
between those who embrace the workers and those who want to see them go.

While the number of Hispanic immigrants in the region increased by 21 percent in
the last five years, it is difficult to tell how many work as day laborers. What
is known is that most day laborers are undereducated, undocumented men from the
Latin American countryside, lured here by the prospect of a better life. Lacking
skills and legal status -- strictly speaking, under federal law, illegal
immigrants are not allowed to work, and employers are not allowed to hire them
-- they end up looking for work in landscaping and construction. They earn an
average of $10 an hour and are sometimes subjected to abuse by employers, who
deny them food, water or breaks, or refuse to pay them at day's end.

Even though many union members oppose illegal immigration, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and
several individual unions have thrown their support behind day laborers, seeing
them as exploited workers who do not earn enough and undercut wages for other
workers. Organized labor has embraced them as part of its broader strategy to
attract immigrants to the labor movement.

Still, their presence has sparked concerns among townspeople, who say day
laborers litter and urinate and loiter in the streets. Some Farmingville
residents say their presence hurts real estate values. They have even proposed
creating a separate village so prices of homes to the west of Nicolls Road, a
north-south highway, do not suffer because of laborers gathered to the east.

''The real estate brokers have a hard time selling homes here because most
people associate Farmingville with day laborers,'' said Ken Kellaher, 58, who is
leading the effort to create the new village, to be called Oak Hills. Mr.
Kellaher lives to the west of Nicolls Road, in a quaint, wealthier section of
Farmingville, a hamlet within the town of Brookhaven. ''We feel that we need to
redefine our community,'' he said.

Local officials, for their part, find themselves in a bind, trying to balance
the pressure from residents, who demand that something be done about men who
they say are destroying their quality of life, with the workers' right to
convene.

Now, with a recent federal court ruling on the response by police and municipal
officials in Mamaroneck to concerns about day laborers, towns are hoping for
guidance from the courts. Last month, Judge Colleen McMahon of Federal District
Court ruled on behalf of a group of day laborers who had sued the village of
Mamaroneck, in southern Westchester County, saying its officials and police
officers harassed them because they are Hispanic. The judge gave the town and
the laborers until Jan. 5 to come up with a solution, a development that is
being closely watched by municipal leaders elsewhere.

The ruling in New York came just a few weeks before borough officials in
Freehold, in Monmouth County, settled a three-year-old federal lawsuit filed by
day laborers. The settlement stipulates that laborers would no longer be fined
for soliciting work in public places. It also prevents building inspectors and
police officers from entering laborers' homes without consent, in what
immigration advocates said was the selective persecution of Latinos.

In a few cases, municipal governments and community groups have compromised by
designating a place -- often a building or an empty lot -- where workers and
contractors can link up. At least 63 hiring sites operate in 17 states,
including about 10 seasonal and year-round sites in the region, according to
local officials and a national survey of 2,600 day laborers released earlier
this year.

Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said hiring sites ''are a matter
of common sense.''

''You get the problem off the streets, so that it's not a visual issue or a
littering issue or a urinating-in-public issue,'' he said. ''And at the same
time, you help these men who are just trying to live the American dream and give
them a safe place to assemble.''

In 1994, as mayor of Glen Cove, N.Y., Mr. Suozzi spearheaded the creation of the
first hiring site on the East Coast, muffling the brewing discontent about the
growing number of men who had been assembling outside a deli and along roadways.
Since then, upward of 40 men convene at a sprawling ground-floor office on Sea
Cliff Avenue every morning, where the walls are lined with posters, each
depicting a letter of the alphabet and a corresponding tool -- P for pliers, T
for tape measure, W for wrench.

Twice a week, a volunteer offers English lessons. Recently, the men pooled their
money to buy a coffeemaker and a Christmas tree.

''If we're not on the streets, we don't bother anybody and the police don't
bother us,'' said a 44-year-old Argentine laborer, who said he shows up every
morning, usually finding work.

Other communities have considered similar sites, but not all have been
successful. In some towns, they have chosen places that are too isolated, as in
Lakewood, where the site is four miles from the commercial district and thus
hard to reach for workers, who rarely have cars. Other towns have declined to
devote municipal dollars to help these sites get started, saying it is not a
local mandate to back enterprises that help mostly illegal immigrants find work.

''We've been very clear that we're not going to spend any taxpayer money to
create a facility for the day laborers, but we're certainly going to be
supportive if any community group tries to resolve the situation on their own,''
Mayor Mark Boughton of Danbury said in an interview. ''Local government has to
walk a very fine line here because federal law is clear: you can't aid or abet
somebody who is here illegally and help them find work.''

The response in a number of communities has been to step up enforcement, through
ordinances, increased police patrols or a combination of both. Often, the police
will cite workers and the contractors who pull up to hire them for small
infractions -- from littering to loitering to impeding traffic. But in the eyes
of the court, some communities have pushed too far.

In the Mamaroneck case, the plaintiffs told the court that police cruisers
followed them, lights flashing. At times, officers used words or harsh gestures
to order them off sidewalks; other times, officers just stared, the plaintiffs
said.

Steve Garcia, one contractor who testified, said in an interview that he had
hired laborers in Mamaroneck. But after he was ticketed in August for pulling
away from a curb without signaling, right after picking up a few workers, he
began hiring workers elsewhere. ''I wanted to help the guys,'' he said, but ''I
didn't need the trouble.''

The decision in Mamaroneck caught the attention of many municipal officials.
Mayor Paul F. Rickenbach Jr. of East Hampton, the affluent village on the east
end of Long Island, said he read it several times, trying to figure out what
impact, if any, it might have on his community.

For months, police officers have been posted near the East Hampton railroad
station, watching day laborers and contractors to make sure no one breaks local
laws, Mayor Rickenbach said. In November 2005, the police ran a sting operation
of sorts, jotting down the license plate numbers of cars that picked up workers,
then shipping the information to the Internal Revenue Service and federal
immigration authorities.

''We were not targeting any particular ethnic group,'' said Mayor Rickenbach, a
former East Hampton police detective who has been in office since 1992. ''We
were just being mindful of the number of individuals who were there and making
certain that the people who were hiring these individuals were aware of their
responsibilities, such as withholding taxes on the wages they were paying these
workers and hiring people who are authorized to work.''

''In no way do we intend to be discriminatory,'' he added. ''We don't go out
soliciting documentation from the workers.''

The nation's day-laborer phenomenon traces its roots to the 18th century, when
European immigrants gathered on city streets, seeking work as chimney sweeps,
wood cutters and dock hands. In the mid-1800s, in port cities in the Northeast,
foremen picked the day's dock help from a pool of workers gathered around him.
Irish men and black women found jobs at New York's hiring sites in the early
20th century, while in California, the sites attracted Mexicans looking for
seasonal farm work.

The laborers who arrived in the last 10 years come mostly from Mexico,
Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, often bypassing traditional ports of entry
like New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles and settling, instead, in the
suburbs, where jobs abound, according to a national survey of day laborers
released in January.

These men, many of whom send part of their earnings to the families they left
behind, worked on farms or in factories in their home countries, the survey
says. Most had not heard about the day-laborer market until arriving and joined
this line of work as a way of gaining a foothold here.

Abel Valenzuela Jr., a co-author of the national survey, ''On the Corner: Day
Labor in the United States,'' noted that employers rarely withhold taxes on
wages or pay Social Security and workers' compensation benefits, making a day
laborer a lot cheaper to hire. In short, he said, day laborers are as much a
byproduct of immigration as they are of the economy.

''Day labor is part of a larger national trend, but it just happens to be at the
low end of this trend, since these men are looking for work on street corners,
as opposed to temp staffing agencies or through the part-time job ads they see
in the newspaper,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, director of the Center for the Study of
Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles.

The survey estimates the number of day laborers nationwide at 120,000, a tiny
fraction of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. About half the day
laborers are in the West, about 20 percent in the East and Southwest, 12 percent
in the South and 4 percent in the Midwest, according to the survey, based on
interviews with 2,600 day laborers in 139 municipalities.

MR. MARTINEZ, the Salvadoran immigrant, used to plant corn, rice and potatoes in
a small plot behind his family's home in the impoverished village of Sonsonate.
One of his uncles came to Mamaroneck in the 1990s and wrote to him that there
were jobs that would pay him enough to support his elderly parents.

In 2001, Mr. Martinez moved to Mamaroneck, finding a busboy job at a restaurant
in nearby Harrison. Two years later, the restaurant closed and Mr. Martinez was
unemployed, so he joined the ranks of men who line the sidewalks near Columbus
Park every morning from 6 to 11.

''I know how to paint walls, do carpentry, clean and landscape,'' he said.
''We're not office people, like the people who take the train every day. But
we're intelligent, and we work hard.''

Day laborers will tell you they earn about $10 an hour, which would make for a
decent living -- if work were not so scarce. In the summer, they work three or
four days a week, earning up to $1,400 a month. But once it turns cold, the
laborers are lucky to work five or six days a month.

To make ends meet, they share apartments with other men, sometimes in unsafe,
overcrowded homes. They often take turns performing household tasks, like
cooking and cleaning.

''Most of us are alone here, so our roommates become our family,'' said Juan
Garcia, 40, a Mexican day laborer with a neat goatee.

If they are not hired, they spend the day at home or, if it is warm, sitting on
a park bench with a Spanish-language newspaper or an American magazine, trying
to make sense of a language few of them know. On Sundays, some go to church,
while others walk the streets. Mr. Martinez enjoys strolling along Fordham
Avenue in the Bronx. Mr. Garcia buys a phone card and talks for hours to his
wife and three children in Tenancingo, Mexico, where he used to eke out a living
growing sugar cane and raising livestock.

''I used to go home every year, around this time of the year, and come back in
March,'' he said. ''But I haven't earned enough this year.''

This spring and summer were unusually difficult for day laborers in Mamaroneck
and in other places where increased enforcement has driven contractors away,
according to at least a dozen workers and contractors interviewed in
Westchester, New Jersey and Long Island.

In Danbury, laborers have avoided gathering at Kennedy Park since 11
undocumented Ecuadoreans were arrested in September by federal immigration
officials posing as contractors.

''If among us immigrants there are criminals, then let the judicial process take
over,'' said Wilson Hernandez, the vice president of the Ecuadorean Civic Center
in Danbury.

''But it's not fair that undocumented immigrants are lumped together with
terrorists,'' he said. ''It's not fair that someone who risked life and limb to
come to this country, to cross the border, be considered a criminal solely
because he came here to work.''

The few men who still gather at the park have been so scared since the raid that
they walked away from a reporter without a word, like children taught not to
talk to strangers.

The civic center and other groups are working together to build a hiring site
behind the house occupied by the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury, a few
blocks from City Hall, on West Street. They hope to have it ready by spring,
when crews will begin constructing 500 luxury condos across from Kennedy Park,
displacing the day laborers.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about day laborers in the region misstated
the name of a street in the Bronx where one of the laborers enjoys strolling. It
is Fordham Road, not Fordham Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: READY AND WILLING -- Day laborers seeking work in Mamaroneck,
N.Y., and, at right, some who found it. Some residents complain about them,
others defend them. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AN UNCERTAIN LIFE -- In Mamaroneck, N.Y., above, a judge intervened after
accusations of police harassment of day laborers who gather on the streets. At a
hiring site in Glen Cove, N.Y., right, a wall is lined with letters and English
words to improve the vocabularies of workers, many of whom are Hispanic and
speak little English. In Stamford, Conn., bottom left, laborers gather in an
area that is designated as a hassle-free zone. (Photos by Above and below,
Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 (Photos by Left and above, Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stars and Strife: Flag Rule Splits Town

BYLINE: By STEVE FRIESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1175 words

DATELINE: PAHRUMP, Nev.


When Michael Miraglia retired and moved to this booming bedroom community last
year, he found that the builders and landscapers working on his new home spoke
so little English that he was unable to communicate with them.

So after his appointment this year to fill a vacancy on the town board, Mr.
Miraglia, 67, proposed an ordinance declaring English the official language of
Pahrump, an unincorporated town of about 35,000 people in Nye County, 60 miles
west of Las Vegas. The proposal also denied unspecified town benefits to
''undocumented foreign nationals'' and forbade the flying of any foreign flag
without an accompanying American flag.

Mr. Miraglia said that the English Language and Patriot Reaffirmation Ordinance,
as he called it, was intended to bring the community together under a common
language and custom. But its adoption on Nov. 14, by a vote of 3 to 2, has had
the opposite effect.

''It has stirred up anger toward the immigrants,'' said Arturo A. Reyes, 40, who
came to the United States from El Salvador two decades ago and became a citizen.
Mr. Reyes, who owns El Cancun Mexican Restaurant on Highway 160, also known as
Main Street, added, ''The whole thing is just bad; it's just stupid.''

Mr. Miraglia saw it differently.

''These people are breaking the law,'' he said of the illegal immigrants here,
most of whom are Hispanic, ''and they should be prosecuted somehow.''

Pahrump, known for its legal brothels, is not the only community to pass
anti-immigration or English-only measures in recent months. Similar laws have
been adopted in Taneytown, Md.; Farmers Branch, Tex.; and Hazelton, Pa. In
November, Arizona voters made English that state's official language.

Pahrump's English-only ordinance is likely to be short-lived because the three
board members who voted for it, including Mr. Miraglia, will be replaced in
January by newly elected members who have said that they oppose the ordinance
and want to rescind it.

[Last Tuesday, the board defeated another proposal by Mr. Miraglia that would
have required illegal foreign workers to register at the town hall, pay a $200
fee and provide personal information, including a list of relatives living in
the United States.]

The hullabaloo surrounding Mr. Miraglia's latest proposal and the language
ordinance has caused friction here.

Some Hispanic residents have said that since Mr. Miraglia's proposals were
introduced, people in passing cars have yelled racial slurs at them.

Lee Rowland, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union of Nevada, said
students had been harassed by school officials for speaking Spanish in private
conversations.

And eggs have been thrown at the home of Robert and Liese Tamburrino, a white
couple who protested the ordinance by flying Italian and Polish flags,
representing the heritage of Mr. Tamburrino's parents. They also received a hate
letter calling them ''thimble-brained, knuckle-dragging cretins.''

''This is a blatant act of civil disobedience,'' said Mr. Tamburrino, 59, who
bought the flags the day after the ordinance passed. ''I'm breaking the law.
Three people spoke for 35,000, and the way they spoke reeks of prejudice and
ignorance. I do not see the Mexican immigrants as a burden on me or my community
at all. I see them as just trying to feed their families and doing jobs other
Americans don't want to do.''

The language ordinance also has burnished an image of Pahrump as an Old West
backwater, which many residents say is inaccurate. Census data show it is one of
the fastest-growing communities in the nation. The population has surged by more
than 45 percent since 2000. More than 10,000 new homes are under construction
and the city has three golf courses and a country club with a racetrack for
collectible car owners.

''It is very embarrassing to us when things like this happen,'' said Laurayne
Murray, a Town Board member who opposed the language ordinance and the worker
registration proposal. ''It's unconstitutional, it's unenforceable and I don't
think it reflects how most people here think.''

It is unclear how many immigrants -- or non-English speakers -- live in Pahrump.
Hispanics were 7.6 percent of the population, the 2000 census said. But most
people say the figure has grown, a perception supported by the four local
elementary schools, where 12 percent to 17 percent of students are Hispanic.

That apparent growth has unnerved some old-timers here, including Fred Harvard,
61, who supported the ordinance.

''They come in here, they take the jobs, they take away the services that belong
to real Americans and they don't respect our flag,'' said Mr. Harvard, who was
born in Nevada. ''It's not right.''

Mr. Miraglia's original version of the ordinance would have created penalties
for hiring illegal immigrants and for renting dwellings and loaning money to
them, but he said he removed those provisions because the town could not afford
the cost of going after landlords and employers.

''People can still speak their own language on their own, but we just wanted to
establish English as the language for the town of Pahrump so we don't have to
publish everything in 7 or 10 different languages,'' Mr. Miraglia said. ''It
only benefits people who come here to learn English because they can be a part
of the community. If you and I were speaking, how would we communicate if we
didn't have a common language? And our common language is English.''

Mr. Miraglia said he learned from an e-mail message from a constituent that the
provision about flying foreign flags violated freedom of speech. ''I sent it to
our town manager and we agreed it probably isn't constitutional,'' he said.

Ms. Rowland of the A.C.L.U. said that she tried to explain the problem with the
flag provision to Mr. Miraglia and the rest of the Board on Nov. 14, but her
voice may have been drowned out by hecklers.

Tony DeMeo, the sheriff of Nye County, said he tried to make the same point when
he issued a statement saying that he would not enforce the restriction on
displaying flags.

George Romero, 36, who owns two Mexican restaurants and a convenience store in
Pahrump, said the board did not listen because it was motivated by
''cut-and-dried racism.'' But Mr. Romero said he did not think that the board's
attitude reflected that of most of Pahrump, even though one of his restaurants
was painted with anti-Mexican slurs on May 1, when he closed them in observance
of the national ''Day Without An Immigrant'' protests.

''There's an immigration problem in the whole country,'' Mr. Romero said, ''but
as far as them taking other people's jobs in Pahrump, I guarantee you businesses
would hire the most qualified and legalized people if they were available.''

Teresa Culhane-Kennedy, manager of the Brothel Art Museum, a bar outside town
with displays that tell the history of legal prostitution, said she understood
how residents felt. ''There's way too many people being allowed to just walk
across the border, it's that easy,'' she said. ''Somebody's got to do
something.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Tamburrino, 59, flies the flags of Italy and Poland, the
countries of his heritage, to protest a town ordinance that says foreign flags
may be displayed only if accompanied by the American flag.
 Michael Miraglia, 67, a member of the Pahrump, Nev., Town Board, proposed the
town's ordinance restricting the display of foreign flags and designating
English as the official language. (Photographs by Isaac Brekken for The New York
Times)Map of Nevada highlighting Pahrump: Fast-growing Pahrump, Nev., is about
60 miles west of Las Vegas.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 19, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Making a Life in the United States, but Feeling Mexico's Tug

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2738 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO


It is the fourth quarter, with South San Antonio High School holding a narrow
lead over its archrival in the biggest football game of the year, and most
everyone in the bleachers is standing and hollering. But not Raquel Rodriguez.

Her son, Jaime, a second-string defensive back, paces the sideline, anxious for
a chance to play. Mrs. Rodriguez, shivering in a vinyl car coat and sling-back
heels, hardly notices the game, obsessing instead over her family's cellphone
bills unfolded across her lap.

She calculates when her cash flow might allow her to pay them, just under $180
in all, and worries she will end up late. She hopes that Jaime will not be sent
onto the field, fretting out loud that her health insurance might not cover him
if he were injured.

''I can't stand to see them hitting my son,'' she sighed, confessing that 11
years after moving here from Mexico, she still does not understand the game of
football or feel part of the larger American way of life that her son so
embraces.

That Mrs. Rodriguez, 46, was in the bleachers at all was a testament to her many
achievements as an immigrant. The eldest of nine brothers and sisters from
Monterrey, an industrial city in northern Mexico, Mrs. Rodriguez is the only one
in her family who has papers to live legally in the United States.

Reporters and a photographer from The New York Times spent a week in October
following Mrs. Rodriguez and two of her sisters, Veronica and Irma, all of whom
speak primarily Spanish, to chronicle the American immigration experience
through the turbulent, intertwined lives of one family from Mexico.

Mrs. Rodriguez's legal immigration status has been both a privilege and a
burden. Like countless others from Mexico, the largest source of newcomers to
this country, Mrs. Rodriguez has secured a stable, decent life in the United
States with her husband and two children, far better than anything she could
have hoped for where she was born.

But she does not feel settled here, and remains endlessly embroiled in the
struggle to raise up her brothers and sisters as well.

Immigration is often a family affair, and a messy one at that. Mrs. Rodriguez's
siblings -- whose last names are not being published here because they have
immigrated illegally -- grew up under the same leaky roof, with the same abusive
father and in the same poverty that had them sometimes begging for food.

Many years later, they have made economic gains, but the temptations and
frustrations of immigration have separated the family, leaving none of them
completely satisfied that they have taken the right course.

Veronica, Mrs. Rodriguez's youngest sister, lives across town with her husband
and children, an illegal resident haunted by fear that her family's progress
could be undone in a moment by the immigration authorities. Irma, Mrs.
Rodriguez's eldest sister, gave up on San Antonio after trying to survive here
for seven years and now whiles away her days in Monterrey regretting that
decision.

Still, Mrs. Rodriguez's home remains a strategic beachhead for them and her
other siblings. They seek her out for a warm meal, a ride or a cash advance as
they navigate her adopted country. Those in Mexico rely on her charity too,
which she delivers piled high in the back of her pickup in the form of
second-hand clothes, toys and household supplies.

''She was like Santa,'' said Veronica, who received gifts of dolls, pants and
underwear in Monterrey from her big sister and later slept on her floor when
first getting established in San Antonio.

At times, the family bond is strained by resentment. Quarrels erupt, social
graces are ignored and feelings hurt. After Mrs. Rodriguez shared her home for
months with Veronica's family, the crowding irritated everyone and she asked
them to leave. Both sisters felt bruised in Veronica's hasty departure.

But Mrs. Rodriguez does not complain. She has an obligation, she says, almost an
obsession, to use her Texas foothold to lift her whole clan.

''My family is always first,'' she says fiercely. ''Always.''

Despite her tenacity, Mrs. Rodriguez's family is not as close as she wants.
Dinnertime comes and her husband is working late, her son is at team practice.
Her daughter, Gabriela, 22, has a family of her own. Mrs. Rodriguez sits on her
blue corduroy couch, yawning with fatigue. Half of her torn heart remains in
Mexico.

Running From the Past

  As Mrs. Rodriguez tells it, she was never drawn to Texas by an American dream.
She was driven to leave Mexico by the pain of the past.

''I'm going to work hard, Ma, so I can have something,'' she told her mother
when she decided to move to the United States. ''So we won't have to ask anybody
for anything, like we did when we were children.''

Although Monterrey is only 150 miles from the Texas border, when Raquel was
growing up it could have been a different continent. Her mother and the children
lived in one room under a tin roof between four cinder-block walls. They all
slept on one box spring, pressed together ''like little chickens,'' Mrs.
Rodriguez says, placing coffee cans between them to catch leaks when it rained.

Her father was a drinker, Mrs. Rodriguez says, mean and violent when he had too
much. He walked out early in the marriage but would visit his wife once or twice
a year, drunk and demanding sexual satisfaction. By the time his visits ceased,
his wife had nine children.

Mrs. Rodriguez, normally guarded, comes quickly to tears when she speaks of her
father. Her eyes have permanent injuries from his blows, she says.

When she was 14, he tried to evict the family and take the hovel where they
lived for himself and a new girlfriend. Mrs. Rodriguez quit school and went to
work as a cook for a Christian mission to earn money to buy out her father.
Every Saturday for several years, she recalled, he arrived at her workplace to
collect her wages.

Though still a girl, Mrs. Rodriguez took on the role of head of her teeming
household. She shielded the smaller children from her father's fists. She barked
and badgered to make sure they went to school.

Although several of her siblings grew up to be evangelical Christians, Mrs.
Rodriguez, a Roman Catholic, says her hatred for her father prevents her from
converting to their faith.

''They say you have to forgive first,'' she says. ''But my rancor is still
fresh. I have wounds that will never heal.''

Her life began to change when she was 18 and she met Jaime Rodriguez Ramirez at
a Monterrey roller-skating rink. Athletic and industrious, Mr. Rodriguez had
also gone to work as a child, learning the greasy art of transmission repair.

They married in 1982. After a few years, Mrs. Rodriguez said, her husband began
to frequent the corner cantina, and she feared he might become like her father.
So when he suggested they try living for a year near a sister of his in San
Antonio, she agreed. America was a way to get her husband away from the bar.

Gaining Legal Status and Jobs

  Her opportunity to immigrate legally came through simple luck. Her husband's
sister married an American citizen. Once that sister-in-law became a naturalized
citizen, she applied for residency for Jaime, Raquel and their daughter,
Gabriela. Jaime Jr. was an American citizen, having been born in Texas during an
exploratory sojourn by the couple.

Mr. Rodriguez went to work right away at JV Transmissions, the garage of his
sister's husband. Mrs. Rodriguez was hired as a waitress at Dos Pedros
restaurant, a homey Mexican hangout with black velvet mariachi hats on the
walls. She spoke no English, but rarely had a customer with no Spanish. At times
she worked two shifts, sleeping only two hours a night.

Even though they were both legal immigrants, the Rodriguezes lived for years
like refugees. They shared a one-bedroom apartment with Mr. Rodriguez's parents.
Her in-laws slept on the only bed, Mrs. Rodriguez said, while she and her family
slept on the floor.

Her responsibilities to her clan in Mexico persisted. Various siblings began
asking her to help them make a start in Texas, and she felt compelled to oblige.

''I had nothing once,'' she says. ''Now I can't bear to see them have nothing.''


A Sibling Crosses the River

  The first to come was her brother, Gutberto, the sixth of her siblings, and
she insisted he stay with her. He forded the Rio Grande, and soon the
one-bedroom apartment of her in-laws in San Antonio housed nine people. Mrs.
Rodriguez's in-laws still slept in the bed, while Gutberto and his wife and one
child joined Mrs. Rodriguez's family on mattresses on the floor.

Eventually Mrs. Rodriguez and her husband moved out, but their new apartment
remained cramped.

Her sister Irma sent her oldest daughter to live with Mrs. Rodriguez so the girl
could attend middle school in Texas. Later Irma herself came, bringing two more
of her daughters to stay with Mrs. Rodriguez as well.

At one point when Veronica brought her family, the population in the Rodriguez
apartment peaked at 10. Tempers were strained and doors were slammed.

But if Mrs. Rodriguez thought her siblings were imposing, she does not speak of
it now. She accuses only her in-laws, whom she does not regard as core family,
of callousness.

She still fumes when recalling that her mother-in-law barred Gutberto from their
house when Mrs. Rodriguez was not there, and refused to feed his children when
they came home from school.

Throughout it all, Mrs. Rodriguez has been investing on both sides of the
border. Eight years ago she landed a school cafeteria job, a step up from
waitressing because it provides health insurance.

Before long, she and her husband paid $69,000 for a sienna-toned two-story ranch
house on a calm San Antonio cul-de-sac. In the same period, she built a modest
house for her mother in the Monterrey neighborhood where she grew up. Just down
the street, she is also gradually improving a larger house, with a swimming pool
that mostly stays empty.

The pull of Mexico remains strong, like a spell. She goes back at Easter and
during the school breaks. At Christmas she leaves her husband and children in
San Antonio, preferring to celebrate with her mother and siblings in Monterrey.

When her daughter, Gabriela, turned 15, Mrs. Rodriguez spent $12,000, more than
a year of hoarded waitress tips and cafeteria wages, on a quinceanera birthday
party, held in Monterrey. Four hundred guests were served whiskey and received
color photographs of Gabriela in her queenly gown. Mrs. Rodriguez paid $1,200
for a laminated, four-foot-high enlargement of that portrait. It crowns her
living room in San Antonio.

Worries About Endurance

  Mrs. Rodriguez expected to work hard in the United States, and she has. When
the doors of the cafeteria at the Roy P. Benavidez Elementary School swing open
at 10:30 in the morning, hundreds of hungry children rush toward the serving
line, and she has to be ready.

She must be sure that 300 enchiladas are covered with the right amount of tomato
sauce and that dozens of sandwiches are prepared with three slices of turkey and
two of cheese. Potatoes must be baked and cookies cooled.

By noon Mrs. Rodriguez is bounding between ovens and freezers. She stirs soups,
hoists trays and wheels carts, maintaining the flow of food to the servers out
front on the cafeteria line. Her limited English is no handicap in the
cafeteria. Most of ''las ladies,'' as the eight women of the kitchen crew are
unofficially known, are Mexican.

She likes her job because after eight years she knows she does it well. ''When
you know how to do your job, nobody yells at you,'' she explains.

But she has started to worry about her endurance. She makes $8.43 an hour,
taking home less than $12,000 a year. She moves constantly between the walk-in
freezer and the heat wave by the stove. One hip aches and her knuckles,
frequently dipped in dishwashing water, are bulging with arthritis.

Her list of ailments is growing. She has had a hysterectomy, a cyst removed from
her breast and multiple surgeries on her battered eyes. (Unable to apply makeup
with her injured vision, she had black lines tattooed around her eyes and lips.)
She has asthma and diverticulitis.

''It would be nice,'' she muses, ''to have a job where I could sit down.''

Blunt Words From a Friend

  Dropping by one afternoon in Ms. Rodriguez's living room, Blandina Sanchez, a
neighbor who is one of her closest friends in San Antonio, puts it more bluntly.

''Get it through your head, Rachel,'' Mrs. Sanchez says, ''you are not going to
want to do that job all your life.'' Mrs. Sanchez, an American, wants her friend
to accept Texas as home. She calls her Rachel instead of Raquel and speaks to
her in English.

''Rachel, you need to go back to school!'' Mrs. Sanchez says, urging her to get
her high school equivalency diploma. Mrs. Rodriguez can never rise to kitchen
supervisor at the elementary school without English, her friend insists.

Mrs. Rodriguez knows that is right, but she just sinks down on her blue corduroy
couch, yawning but still tense. Even in her own living room, she does not
unwind. She runs financial calculations in her head and plans trips to Mexico.
She keeps the lights off well into dusk, sitting in dimness to cut her costs.

On Saturdays, she admits, she likes to drink beer, sometimes too much beer. Her
worries force her to think about where she belongs. She has always been guided
by her family, but now it is diverging.

Her husband has done well in Texas. He has worked hard, stayed straight and been
a fine father, raising both his children to play sports and keep out of trouble.

Gabriela married a legal Mexican immigrant, a construction contractor whose
business is booming. Their toddler, Hanna, is an American. Gabriela plays in a
women's soccer league in San Antonio.

No Question of Identity

  Jaime Jr., at 18, is even more absorbed in American life. Not only a varsity
football player, he is a solid student with plans to move to Phoenix to attend a
technical college next year, an educational leap for a family that only
recently, with Gabriela's graduation, celebrated its first high school diploma.

A hefty young man with a square jaw, Jaime exudes self-confidence. Slipping
easily between English and Spanish, he favors English, even knowing his mother
cannot always understand him.

When asked to describe his identity, Jaime, born and raised in the United
States, answers immediately, in plain English.

''I'm Mexican, yes.''

His high school friends all call themselves Mexicans. During middle school, he
says, there was friction, with some ''popular people'' taunting them, calling
them wetbacks. But now he is a senior on the football team.

''Now no one really makes fun of me or anything because I talk to everyone, and
I play football,'' he says. ''Everyone just keeps it cool now.''

He is proud of his roots in Mexico. But that does not mean he wants to live
there.

Mrs. Rodriguez is not sure where she wants to be. She has many friends in San
Antonio, and her church, St. Bonaventure, is just down the street. Because of
her work discipline and legal immigration status, Mrs. Rodriguez's economic
advance has been steady. She has never wanted for a job and has been able to
obtain credit cards, car loans and a home mortgage. She drove to her son's
football game in a double-cabin pickup truck with polished chrome wheels, a
recent purchase.

But she rarely sees her brother Gutberto and her sister Veronica, though they
remain in Texas. She perceives terrible hints that some of her siblings resent
her success.

''They don't know how I am killing myself at work,'' Mrs. Rodriguez says, in a
moment of anguish.

So, although she is eligible to become a United States citizen, any move to do
so would be purely practical. It would, ironically, be a way to help reunite her
Mexican family because as a citizen she could apply for residency papers for her
siblings. ''I would do it to help my brothers and sisters,'' she said of
citizenship.

In the stands at the football game, Mrs. Rodriguez's pensive mood changed when
Gabriela arrived with baby Hanna to watch her brother's big game. Mrs. Rodriguez
seized her granddaughter in her arms. It was family again, and she let herself
relax.

''I have a job,'' she said. ''My husband has a job. I have good children. I'm
happy.''

But there was more. ''I am also sad. I don't have my whole family with me.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THREE SISTERS: Chapter 1: Raquel

GRAPHIC: Photos: Raquel Rodriguez, with her grandchild, Hanna, and daughter,
Gabriela, in the stands at her son's high school football game in San Antonio.
(Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
PLANS AFTER HIGH SCHOOL -- Jaime Rodriguez Jr., 18, is a varsity football player
and solid student with plans to move to Phoenix to attend a technical college
next year. Born in Texas, he is a United States citizen.
FAMILY PORTRAIT -- A picture of Raquel and Jaime Rodriguez with their children,
Gabriela and Jaime Jr., hangs in their San Antonio home.
A CAFETERIA JOB AT $8.43 AN HOUR -- For eight years, Raquel Rodriguez has worked
in an elementary school cafeteria, where she cooks, carries trays and wheels
cartsto maintain the flow of food to the servers on the cafeteria line. Most of
''las ladies,'' as the eight womenof the kitchen crew are unofficially known,
are Mexican. (Photographs by MONICA ALMEIDA/The New York Times)(pg. A30)
 A CHERISHED MEAL TOGETHER -- ''My family is always first,'' says Raquel
Rodriguez, who still worries that the family is not as close as she would like.
Her husband sometimes works through dinnertime, and her son often has team
practice. At this meal, she was joinedby Gabriela and Jaime Jr. and Gabriela's
young daughter, Hanna. (Photo by Monica Almeida /The New York Times)(pg. A31)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 20, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fear and Hope in Immigrant's Furtive Existence

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2877 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO


Veronica keeps her foot steady on the pedal. She turns onto a side street, where
trouble is easier to avoid. A yellow traffic light flashes and she stops;
running it is not an option.

Veronica, 31, does not take chances. In her mind, she already took the biggest
chance of her life by moving here illegally from Monterrey, Mexico, with a
husband and three young children. Now she has too much to lose.

Border Patrol agents routinely monitor the main roads near her house on the
outskirts of this sprawling city in south-central Texas, so Veronica and her
friends and relatives have informal alert networks in place. ''My husband just
called to tell me he saw them right now on the street,'' she said, clicking shut
her cellphone, before leaving the house.

Spanish-language radio also does its part; ''limones verdes'' -- or green limes
-- ''are sprouting'' near the highway, an announcer warns over the radio, using
shorthand for the agents' green uniforms.

''We're careful,'' Veronica said.

And why not. After six years in America, her list of accomplishments would be
the envy of most everyone in the ramshackle neighborhood where she grew up.

There is the little house, stone and stucco, with a browning yard, a battered
trampoline and rusty plumbing. The family's two used cars (a minivan and a Ford
Focus) sit in the driveway.

Her common-law husband, Jose, has a job other immigrants covet, $15 an hour
working for a boss who offers no benefits but gives generous presents: a
refrigerator, a washing machine, tickets to SeaWorld. Her children speak to each
other in English and bring home mostly A's and B's. Her eighth grader is in the
National Honor Society, and a son was recently rewarded with a GameCube for
doing well in school.

It may not seem like much, Veronica says, but in Monterrey's working-class
''colonias'' she lived in houses with cardboard walls and zinc roofs. Growing
up, she shared a single damp box spring with eight siblings and coffee cans. The
cans were there to catch the rain. And Veronica was the lucky one of the bunch,
she said: she made it to eighth grade, with the help of her siblings' wages,
and, as the baby of the family, escaped her father's beatings.

Two of her sisters, Raquel Rodriguez and Irma, and one of her brothers have also
ventured to San Antonio for better lives. (The last names of Veronica and other
family members who have immigrated illegally are not being published here.)

Though separated by years, distance and degrees of success, their journeys have
crisscrossed time and again, an up-close version of the broader immigrant
experience that has Mexicans, legal and illegal, shuttling between hope and
despair, between leaning on friends and relatives and going it alone.

Even before Veronica's arrival here, Raquel's green card, her legal residency
document, cast a special glow on the whole family. Raquel was the fixer, the one
who made it possible even to imagine a path out of the thicket of poverty, the
one who offered up a relatively soft landing in America, at least for a few
months.

''Raquel was already here, and she got us so enthusiastic,'' Veronica said,
remembering her sister's pitch about jobs and a better life during her visits
home. ''She kept at us. We thought no, no. Then we said, 'Let's make a go of
it.' Raquel did it. She helped us.''

Irma, who had no green card, also took advantage of Mrs. Rodriguez's welcome but
later gave up on America, returning three years ago to Monterrey to a dreary
cinderblock house with an outdoor bathroom; Mrs. Rodriguez still lives here
about 10 miles away, but her world is also far removed from Veronica's: Mrs.
Rodriguez has a steady job with benefits and can move about without fear of
getting caught for being here illegally.

Like millions of other illegal immigrants, Veronica and Jose first entered the
United States on tourist visas, which they were able to get from the American
consulate in Monterrey. Veronica had secured hers as a child and was able to
extend it. The family was waved in at the checkpoint in Laredo, except for her
two daughters from her earlier marriage who hid under a blanket in the back
seat.

Veronica's visa is still good, for five more years, but there are conditions.
She can stay only for six months at a time and cannot work. Veronica has
violated both rules, making her an illegal immigrant, or in the Mexican
vernacular, someone ''sin papeles,'' without papers.

Neighborhood Safety Zones

  In a country of dedicated spotlight seekers, Veronica makes a habit of kicking
attention away like a stray ball. She prefers to shrink into the background of
her modest neighborhood and operate within its safety zones, an area of about
five square miles where people don't ask her to flash cards she doesn't have.
Insurance card. Social Security card. Credit card. Green card.

Caution corrals her hopes and expectations. She doesn't dare drive the 200 miles
to Houston to visit a close cousin. The road, so open and busy, is pockmarked
with risk. That popular little taco restaurant on the road about a mile away?
Veronica heard it was a favorite refueling stop for Border Patrol agents.

This summer, when word filtered down that ''la migra'' -- immigration -- was
staking out Wal-Mart and the flea market, Veronica stayed away. ''Now no more
Wal-Mart, and in Wal-Mart they gave you layaway,'' she lamented.

In the garbled game of immigrant telephone -- where messages trundle past
cultural miscues and language hurdles -- bad information gets passed along like
extra coupons. It took her five years to get a driver's license because she
heard it was not safe for someone ''sin papeles'' to apply. She also heard she
had to take a test on a computer and she had never used a computer before.

''I said, 'God, you are my Social Security card and my driver's license,'''
Veronica said. ''We were afraid to go and get it. But then you meet people who
have done it, and you figure out it's O.K.''

Her social life is just as constrained. As Veronica walks out of her house, she
spies a neighbor across the street and gives her a quick wave. She doesn't know
her name. She doesn't want to know. People on her block learn to avert their
eyes.

''You never know,'' Veronica said. ''There are bad people in the world. We could
have a problem with immigration. There is a lot of envy in the world, so we are
careful.''

She has one constant friend, Belinda, a sweet Mexican woman who recently had a
job earning $3.50 an hour making tacos. Belinda lives in a dusty trailer park
nearby with her two daughters and an American husband who charges her to use the
family car. Being with Belinda reminds Veronica that her life, however
difficult, is blessed.

An Exercise in Humiliation

  No rules are too small for Veronica, and she tries hard to live as a lawful
illegal immigrant, an oxymoron she shrugs off.

Her husband, a shy, handsome man who works 50 hours a week as a machinist,
relaxes after work by fixing up old cars. One day not long ago, a code
enforcement officer told him that broken-down cars had to be kept off driveways.
Veronica panicked. Jose now fixes the cars in the backyard.

One mistake, Veronica explained, and it's back to Monterrey, back to borrowing
money for diapers.

Even in her daily routine, Veronica said, it is hard to forget that she is
illegal, and sometimes unwelcome.

A few months ago, she and Jose ventured into a big-box store to return a faulty
microwave oven. It was an exercise in humiliation, she said. The employee
refused to take it back.

''I told them we are paying customers,'' Veronica said. ''We are not asking for
things for free.''

Finally, Jose's boss called the store and the microwave was swapped.

Mexican-American cashiers have pretended not to understand Spanish when
Veronica, who can't speak English, asks a question. It is a power play among
Spanish speakers designed to haze and embarrass the newest immigrants.

''Sometimes they call you mojados to your face,'' said Veronica, using the
Spanish word for ''wetback.''

But then, she said, there is the flip side. Santa Claus visits their house every
Christmas, courtesy of a local charity. The nurses and doctors at the hospital
where she had her fourth child, a girl, also saved her elementary school boy
after his appendix burst. ''They treat you better here than in Mexico,''
Veronica said. ''Living here without papers is still better than living there.''

She worked for a while, when Jose was still pounding out car dents and hustling
odd jobs for $200 a week. The underground network led her to a man who sold fake
Social Security cards and to a job at a factory, making cots for the military
for $5.15 an hour. Her boss was kind and gave her extra shift work.

But she noticed her son, at the time her only child not in school, had grown
listless. A few questions revealed that the woman who watched him for $60 a week
secluded him in one room and fed him scraps to save money. He became anemic, and
that ended Veronica's job. Now she works some weekends cleaning her husband's
boss's offices.

Mostly she labors at home. She mops the green linoleum floors every day, cooks
two meals for her husband and feeds her children in the evening. She brings
order to the bedrooms, even the makeshift ones with hanging sheets as doors and
dividers, each with a bed, queen or twin. Her children all share beds. The
youngest daughter, a 4-year-old born in San Antonio, proudly brings forth her
toys: a book, a doll's head, a plastic dollhouse.

Bargain hunting is a second job. She drives around the neighborhood Fridays and
Saturdays with her friend Belinda looking for ''garajes,'' garage sales.
Veronica is assiduous in her bargaining.

''Cuanto?'' she asks, holding a set of sheets in someone's driveway.

''Cuatro dolares,'' the seller says. Four dollars.

''Te lo compro por dos,'' Veronica says, bringing her down to $2.

For $6, Veronica walks away with strappy sandals, two pairs of pants, towels and
the sheets.

Working Off the Books

  Veronica is grateful to be here, even as a shadow. But she earns her keep. ''I
get angry when you hear on television that we don't pay for things and don't pay
taxes,'' Veronica said.

She yanks her property tax bill out of a file. It is more than $1,800. Here is
her home insurance bill, $713 a year. Social Security is deducted from her
husband's paycheck even though he bought his Social Security card on the black
market.

Veronica works off the books so does not pay taxes on her wages; her sister
Raquel, the legal resident, got her a cellphone, which also required a Social
Security number.

Veronica and Jose have learned to navigate the underground economy to get ahead.
At first they shied from opening up a bank account, but the fees at the
check-cashing place ($1 for every $100 cashed) drove them to it. All it required
was a tourist visa and a taxpayer identification number, which allows workers to
pay tax to the federal government.

She pulled out her $1,000 bill from the hospital for her son's appendectomy. She
is paying it bit by bit. That was all she was charged, she said, because she
didn't have enough money to pay the whole bill. The hospital told her the
government would pay the rest.

Buying their house was tricky. Without a credit trail, Veronica said she didn't
even think about a mortgage, so they took another route, one without lawyers and
credit reports. They met with the owners of the house and the four of them
signed a piece of paper, banking on nothing but trust that in about 15 years the
house would be theirs. Veronica goes to the bank every month and deposits $537,
which includes 10 percent interest. That money pays off the owners' mortgage.

Veronica frets that the house could be snatched away from them, by the
government, by the owner. When that happens, she prays. She pushes the negative
thoughts out and takes a leap of faith.

''The owner is a nice person,'' she said. ''But who knows? It is in God's
hands.''

Uncertainty and Longing

  Veronica speaks about God with the passion of a new convert. It is her way of
fending off the uncertainty at home and the longing she feels for her family in
Monterrey. When her days seem too tenuous, Veronica prays, usually alone in her
bedroom with her Bible.

She asks God to protect her family from harm, to keep her strong, to help her
relatives in Mexico buy a hot water heater. She asks that her husband's boss
stay faithful to him. She prays that her children stay far from drugs and sex.
Some of her 17-year-old girl's schoolmates are already pregnant.

She talks to God about helping her go home to visit her mother and brothers, and
her sister Irma, who left San Antonio three years ago. But her deepest prayers
center on legitimacy, on getting a green card. She has heard on television about
the election last month, and she is hopeful the changes in Washington might make
it easier for her to stay here.

Veronica found God the usual way; she stumbled across him when she needed him
most, in her case during an emergency room visit for pain in her uterus that
wouldn't let up. The pain in her heart, Veronica said, cut just as deeply. She
was depressed. Jose picked up a pamphlet on a table; it was an invitation to an
evangelical church.

Now the tiny church nearby -- no more than a converted garage in the back of a
house where she prays to Jesus in Spanish -- is her solace. It is one of the few
places she visits regularly without fear.

''Since then, I have not been sick,'' Veronica said of her churchgoing. ''It's
the prayers. I feel so much better. Thank God.''

''God has his plan,'' Veronica added. ''None of it is coincidence. Because of
him, we are better off.''

On her knees, with her hands raised high as the youth choir sings and jams,
Veronica finds that she fits in perfectly with the 50 or so other members, all
of them Latino, many of them also one slip from misfortune. Her children sit
with her, singing, studying. This is her community and she dresses up for it,
with highlights in her hair, a long, tight-fitting skirt and an elegant black
top. Her face is subtly lit by makeup. Despite her hardships, Veronica manages
to look her age.

''We praise you Lord,'' the choir leader, a teenage girl, says over and over as
the guitar player riffs. ''Te alabamos Senor. Te alabamos Senor.''

Struggles With English

  Back home, sitting down on her imitation leather sofa, Veronica watches as her
4-year-old daughter fixates on ''Dora the Explorer'' beaming from their
large-screen television set, the family's most prized possession.

Veronica has just finished cleaning her pots and pans. She had made chicken mole
for Jose's boss and his workers earlier that day. She cooks once in a while to
say thank you, whether he decides to pay her or not.

The other children come home and do their homework. Veronica knows she should
learn English. She can't check the homework -- the older children must help the
younger ones -- and she can't understand what they say to each other, which
makes her both nervous and proud. But finding a good English class requires more
money, time and confidence than she has.

''I went to some free classes and learned a bit,'' she said, smiling,
acknowledging that the classes offered up more gossip than English. ''I can say
hello, order some hamburgers.''

Photographs of Veronica's family in Mexico are all over the house. Most people
don't give their photos a second glance. Veronica looks at them repeatedly,
hungrily. The telephone is expensive. The Internet is not an option. Her family
in Mexico is not wired, and her own secondhand computer crashed this summer.

When a new pile of photographs arrives, Veronica scoops them up. ''Look, it's
Shakira,'' Veronica said, poking sweet fun at her niece Lupita, Irma's daughter,
who had dyed her hair light, like the singer's.

A Father's Funeral Missed

  Of all the hardships she has faced -- grueling jobs, mice-infested apartments,
illness, insults -- the worst, Veronica said, is not being able to hug her
mother or idly chit-chat with her brothers and sisters.

When Jose's father died, he could not go home for the funeral. He would not risk
getting stranded in Mexico.

''To not go and put flowers on his father's grave, that is hard,'' Veronica
said. ''He still cries about it.''

Her husband, a gentle, strapping man who does not drink, spends most weekends
working and has not taken a vacation in two years. Nothing like her first
husband, who beat her. In Mexico, Jose had his own machine shop, and still they
could not pay the bills.

''And it was not because my husband was not a good worker,'' Veronica said.

Veronica, despairing, lost her willpower three years ago and went back to Mexico
for a visit. At the border on her return to San Antonio, inside a car with a
legal resident, she was questioned. The agent had found her Texas identification
card in the computer database, a giveaway that she was not a tourist.

Her heart racing, Veronica concocted a story on the fly. She had applied for the
card for a visit to Las Vegas, she told the agent. Somehow it was convincing
enough; he waved her through.

''It was too big a scare,'' Veronica said, vowing never to try such a journey
again. ''I won't risk the future of my children.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THREE SISTERS: Chapter 2: Veronica

GRAPHIC: Photos: Veronica, a Mexican immigrant who lives and works illegally in
San Antonio, is constantly on the alert. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York
Times)(pg. A1)
PRAISE AND THANKS -- Veronica has found solace at a tiny evangelical church
where she prays to Jesus in Spanish. The church's 50 or so members are all
Latino, and it is one of the few places she visits regularly without fear.
 YOUNGEST OF THE FAMILY -- Although Veronica and her common-law husband are in
the country illegally, their 4-year-old, above, is a citizen, having been born
in San Antonio. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A26)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 22, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visitors to America

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 114 words



To the Editor:

Re ''U.S. Is Dropping Effort to Track if Visitors Leave'' (front page, Dec. 15):

Tracking visitors who leave the United States is prohibitively expensive,
logistically challenging and doesn't accomplish the desired goal.

Instead, we should track visitors who break the law by staying in the United
States after their visas expire. That is less expensive, easier and identifies
those who violate the contracts under which they entered our country.

As guests, visitors rarely have the same rights as citizens. Visitors to my home
don't get the same rights and freedoms as those who live there. Why should my
country do any less?

Denise Nitterhouse
Chicago, Dec. 17, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 26, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

America, the Exam

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 352 words


Name one famous battle from the Revolutionary War.

Name one of the major American Indian tribes in the United States.

Name one of the things that Abraham Lincoln did.

If you can answer these questions, you may be qualified to become an American
citizen. If you can't, you may be one already.

This is one of the oddities exposed by an effort to overhaul the naturalization
exam. The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services wants to make the
test more meaningful at a time when the civics knowledge of native-born
Americans is dismal. The aim is to encourage applicants not to memorize trivia,
like the colors and number of stripes on the flag, but to understand the basic
history and core principles of our democracy.

That goal is sensible, though not everybody is happy about it. Immigrant
advocacy groups fear that the new test, to be unveiled in a pilot program next
month, will be too hard, requiring a competency in English out of the reach of
many new arrivals. Some advocates have complained that the cities chosen at
random for the experiment, including Albany, Miami, Charleston, S.C., and
Yakima, Wash., are unrepresentative of the immigrant population. The agency
somehow missed New York City and all of California, which is ample reason for
Asians, especially, to feel left out of the process.

Immigrants are famously rich in gumption; they need it to handle what the
bureaucracy throws at them. But if they make it, they will have something more
than a green card: a credible claim to knowing a lot more about our country's
history and laws than the average man and woman in the street.

With that in mind, you natives may want to start boning up. Here are the
agency's suggested answers for the sample questions above.

1) Lexington and Concord, Trenton, Princeton, Saratoga, Cowpens, Yorktown,
Bunker Hill.

2) A partial list: Cherokee, Seminole, Creek, Choctaw, Iroquois, Shawnee,
Mohegan, Chippewa, Huron, Oneida, Sioux, Cheyenne, Lakota, Crow, Blackfoot,
Teton, Navajo, Apache, Pueblo, Hopi, Inuit.

3) Saved the union; freed the slaves; led the United States during the Civil
War.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 26, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boom in Rockies for Skiers, Developers and Immigrants

BYLINE: By Neil Genzlinger

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 576 words


The title deserves an F.C.C. fine for unoriginality, but ''In the Shadow of the
American Dream,'' tonight on NBC, does a decent job of translating one of the
year's most bloviated-upon topics, immigration, into human terms. It may also
give anyone on a holiday ski trip to Colorado an extra bit of luggage: a small
bag of guilt.

The latest in the ''Tom Brokaw Reports'' series, the program avoids the
statistics-and-sound-bite trap that makes most treatments of the subject so dry.
It focuses instead on one particular microcosm, Gould Construction in Glenwood
Springs, Colo., a contractor whose territory, the Roaring Fork Valley near
Aspen, is a destination for vacationers and the expensive-second-home crowd.

''Americans don't want this work,'' Mark Gould, the company's president, says
bluntly of the ditch-digging and other tough jobs that must be done to enable
boom-time buildings to go up. But immigrants, mostly Mexicans, do want it, and
so in the Rockies, far from the border and that much-discussed wall, Spanish is
taking over. Mr. Brokaw visits a four-bedroom house where one of Mr. Gould's
workers lives with 17 other people. Only one of the 18 is an American, a
2-year-old who was born in the United States.

Mr. Gould talks forthrightly about the frustrations of having more work than he
can find workers to do. His staff is shown making what seems to be a good-faith
effort to check applicants' papers, and the police and other local officials
talk about legal-vs.-illegal-immigrant issues, but there's a sense that it's all
a facade: everyone knows the area's economy wouldn't run without illegal
workers. Certainly Mr. Brokaw's crew has no trouble not only pinpointing which
of Mr. Gould's workers are illegal but also finding the document-forger they
use.

But this is no expose. It's an attempt to look at the immigration issue through
the eyes of people directly involved, and Mr. Brokaw -- despite an annoying
interview technique in which he states the ideas he wants his subjects to
articulate, then asks them if that's correct -- gets a commendable amount of
candor out of people when he lets them talk.

Varied views are dutifully represented, but this is at heart a pro-immigrant
program; immigrants are depicted as hard workers, and there is no suggestion
that some come to the United States specifically to commit crimes or rip off the
system. If nothing else, though, Mr. Brokaw reveals the interconnectedness that
takes hold once a community turns to immigrant labor.

The longtime Colorado resident who speaks eloquently about how it feels to have
her children now be part of a minority group in the local school, which is 80
percent Hispanic, is a vice president at Gould Construction. One project Mr.
Gould is trying to find workers for is a school expansion, made necessary by the
influx of immigrants.

Essentially absent, though, are the rich people and vacationers whose demands
for creature comforts are presumably fueling all of this. Who is going to be
staying in that hotel Gould Construction is working on? How many of those future
visitors are charter members of the Close the Border Club?

Tom Brokaw Reports
In the Shadow of the American Dream
NBC, tonight at 8; Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time.

David Corvo, executive producer; Soraya Gage, producer; Joyce Cordero, Leonor
Ayala, field producers; Liz Bowyer, editorial producer; Erika Beck, researcher;
Josh Kuvin, editor; Tom Brokaw, reporter.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 28, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Citizens And Security

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 728 words



To the Editor:

Re ''America, the Exam'' (editorial, Dec. 26):

I support the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services' effort to make
the exam more meaningful.

A harder test will compel immigrants to appreciate our country's values and
history more. Personally, I think that an American citizenship is a privilege
and should be given to immigrants who make a strong effort to be part of this
country.

Eli Mond
New York, Dec. 26, 2006

To the Editor:

While I support the government's efforts to promote a more meaningful
citizenship exam, my experience is that it is unreasonable to expect new
immigrants, who often have limited knowledge of English, to answer complex
questions in a language other than their native tongue.

After I became an American citizen in 2002, I coached my grandmother on her
exam. Like others who speak little English, she prepared by memorizing English
answers to the questions. She would have had difficulty answering the more
in-depth ones in English.

Of course, lack of advanced English should not exempt immigrants from learning
about our civil procedures and democratic ideals.

Why not offer the new exams and prep materials in applicants' native languages?
Instead of the token English-language portion of the current test, they should
pass a separate test of basic English.

Sasha Senderovich
Somerville, Mass., Dec. 26, 2006

To the Editor:

Re ''Bipartisan Group Drafting Bill for a Simpler Path to Citizenship'' (front
page, Dec. 26):

Nowhere in your article about immigration reform is there mention of any
additional penalties for employers who knowingly hire undocumented workers or
who take too few precautions to ensure the validity of a new employee's
documentation.

Nowhere is there mention of reform for a legitimate immigration and residency
database to which employers can refer easily. And nowhere is there support for
increased employer scrutiny by Homeland Security or tax agencies.

Reforming immigration is important, but we don't need to create another
uncontrollable process, where only the noncitizen violators are liable.

Ben Burrows
Elkins Park, Pa., Dec. 26, 2006

To the Editor:

''Mr. Bush's Immigration Realism'' (editorial, Dec. 21) considers one-half of
the problem, and praises the president for his tolerant understanding of the
difficulties illegal immigrants face.

The cause of their pain is clearly the United States government, which, in Mr.
Bush's words, has caused people to rely on smugglers and forgers. Your editorial
endorses this view; our system ''draws in millions of illegal immigrants each
year'' and exploits them.

The other half of the problem might be addressed in an editorial on Mr. Bush's
shocking indifference to national security at the Mexican border. Shouldn't we
be concerned that millions of people are crossing illegally?

We know that drug and human smugglers are flourishing, that non-Mexicans are
coming, that no more than 25 percent of those who cross illegally are
apprehended.

Millions of Americans want border security. This does not make us
restrictionists, but prioritists. Double the strength of the Border Patrol,
fences, walls, whatever it takes. You don't have to be a plumber to know that
before you install pipes, you turn off the water.

If we need a million workers from Mexico each year, we can admit them. But we
cannot surrender the prerogative to make that decision.

Donald E. Smith
Wayne, Pa., Dec. 21, 2006

To the Editor:

The assumption behind your series on the lives of Mexican immigrants, ''Three
Sisters'' (front page, Dec. 19-21), is that Americans have an obligation to
support amnesty because the immigrants are suffering, and that municipalities
should not mind subsidizing what this entails in public services.

When is your newspaper going to show an equal concern for all the native-born
people living on the edge of disaster because their jobs have been shipped
overseas or their labor undercut by cheaper immigrant labor?

Meryle Secrest
Washington, Dec. 21, 2006

To the Editor:

Regarding the recent front-page series about Mexican immigrants to the United
States, a basic question arises:

Why, after nearly two centuries of independence from Spain and blessed with
ample natural resources, is Mexico still unable to provide more than bare
subsistence for so many of its citizens?

Lawrence R. Foster
San Ramon, Calif., Dec. 21, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 30, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Wary of Banks Put Faith In New Card

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J.


Since coming to this country eight years ago, Jose Dimas has bristled at the $8
fee he often must pay to cash his paycheck. He stews over the $10 charge he
faces whenever he wires $150 home to his parents in Mexico.

Daunted by the requirements to open a bank account, Mr. Dimas had long kept his
savings hidden in his apartment, and had worried that his money would be stolen.

But now Mr. Dimas, 32, a food preparer at a catering company, has a new tool
that has eased his discomfort with all things financial. It is a special debit
card, provided not by a bank but by a nonprofit worker center here, enabling
hundreds of immigrants without checking accounts or credit cards to keep their
cash somewhere safer than beneath their mattresses. The card also makes it
easier to shop at stores as well as online.

''This card is better for me for a lot of situations,'' Mr. Dimas said. ''You
don't have to pay those big charges to send money back to Mexico. And it will be
much safer. I don't like keeping my money in my home. Someone could go steal the
money.''

The worker center, called New Labor, normally focuses on preaching about worker
solidarity and safety, but after seeing all the hassles that immigrants face
with finances, it pioneered the new debit cards. In a survey of 480 immigrants
who were members of New Labor and similar worker centers, 47 percent said they
had no bank accounts.

Since November, New Labor has provided cards to 200 immigrant members, including
some who are here illegally. Three other centers -- in Hempstead, N.Y., Chicago
and Los Angeles -- have begun offering the cards as well, and organizers say
they hope to make them available to tens of thousands of immigrants at 140
worker centers nationwide within the next few years.

Several financial experts said the new debit cards -- named ''Sigo,'' combining
the Spanish word for ''yes'' and the English ''go'' -- are an ideal tool for 30
million workers, both foreign-born and native, who lack bank accounts and often
face high check-cashing fees and frustrating obstacles in paying bills.

Sigo cards can also help so-called ''unbanked'' immigrants develop financial
sophistication and eventually move into the banking system, these experts said,
perhaps to obtain a mortgage or small business loan.

''It's not just about reducing your financial costs and making your financial
life easier, it also helps give you opportunities to get ahead,'' said Jennifer
Tescher, director of the Center for Financial Services Innovation in Chicago,
which provided a grant to develop the program. ''It saves you time and makes
more products and services available to you.''

Like department store gift cards, the Sigo card has stored value, but unlike
those cards, it is reloadable, meaning more money can be added. Users can reload
the cards by having paychecks deposited directly into their accounts or by
making cash deposits -- for fees ranging from 50 cents to $5 -- at a local
pharmacy or worker center.

The Sigo card requires a PIN number and is affiliated with MasterCard, and can
be used wherever MasterCard is accepted.

Cardholders face a maximum liability of $50 if their cards are stolen.

In essence, Sigo cards create a checkless checking account, allowing bills to be
paid over the Internet or by having companies deduct directly from the accounts.
That can save significant time among a population of workers who often take a
day off from work each month to trek from office to office to pay electricity,
phone and rent bills in cash.

Janice Fine, a Rutgers University labor relations professor who was the main
force behind the Sigo card, said it would probably please both conservatives and
liberals because the cards encourage asset-building by making it easier for
immigrants to save money, and because the worker centers can make money from the
cards to help finance other programs. The cards generally cost $4.95 to start
and then $2.50 a month, with the centers splitting those fees with the company
that administers the cards.

''We were trying to develop a tool that would help immigrants with their
finances and help worker centers with their finances,'' Professor Fine said.

To develop the card, she worked closely with two nonprofit groups, the Center
for Community Change and Community Financial Resources. Grants from the Ford
Foundation and the Center for Financial Services Innovation financed a survey of
immigrant members of the worker centers, which found that, on average, they
earned $15,600 a year and sent $293 back home each month.

Many of the immigrants surveyed said they lacked the identification papers
needed to open bank accounts, while others said they shunned banks because of
hidden fees and the large penalties for bounced checks. Some immigrants said
that banks' hours and locations were inconvenient and some said they could not
wait for a week for their paychecks to clear.

While many American banks require two United States government documents to open
an account, immigrants can obtain a Sigo card with just one form of
identification, including birth certificates, passports or other records from
their home country.

One recent evening at the New Labor center here, Buenaventura Pacheco Lopez, a
drywall worker, was getting his new debit card at the front desk. ''This will
make it easier to send money to my parents and kids in Veracruz,'' he said.

Cardholders can send a second card to relatives abroad, who can then make
withdrawals at a local A.T.M. Several workers said it cost $15 to send $300 to
Mexico through Western Union. But with the Sigo card, the card's sponsors say,
it will cost about $4.50 -- the fee for using the A.T.M. in Mexico.

''This is definitely growing by word of mouth,'' said Michele Gross, an
organizer at New Labor. ''They know us and they trust us as opposed to other
institutions that they have less experience with, like banks, or that they've
had bad experiences with, like check-cashing stores. They believe us when we say
these cards are safer than carrying cash around.''

The cards are administered by the I.D.T. Corporation, a Newark-based company
that specializes in phone cards and won the contract in a competitive bidding
process among five companies.

Several worker centers plan to use the cards to help collect their dues -- a
chronic problem because many members are low-wage laborers with unstable
employment and housing situations.

''It's really hard as an organization to build up membership because of the
general instability of our members,'' said Nadia Marin-Molina, executive
director of a similar center in Hempstead, the Workplace Project, which began
distributing the cards this month. ''We face some real challenges in building up
our membership dues, and we're really interested in seeing how the debit card
can help us in that area.''

Companies like Western Union and Citibank already offer similar reloadable
cards, but organizers at the worker centers say they believe they are better
positioned to persuade immigrants to try their card. One of the biggest issuers
of such cards is NetSpend, a Texas company that lets cardholders check their
balances by cellphone.

''When people go from a cash-based payment system to an electronic-based payment
system, it's very empowering,'' said Rick Savard, NetSpend's chief executive

Hugo Cruz, 26, a cook from Puebla, in Mexico, obtained his debit card from New
Labor two months ago and said he has used it to shop at supermarkets and buy an
iPod online. He has asked his employer to deposit his paycheck directly into his
account.

He said he was happy that his card helps support New Labor, where he takes free
English and computer classes. ''New Labor helped me, and with this, I help
them,'' Mr. Cruz said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Germania Hernandez activates a Sigo card for Buenaventura
Pacheco Lopez in New Brunswick, N.J. (Photo by Aaron Houston for The New York
Times)(PG. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Stung In the Search For Work

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER.

E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 825 words

DATELINE: DANBURY


FROM the look of things, Juan Barrera's real crime seems to have been trying to
find work.

As he does six mornings a week, he showed up on Sept. 19 outside Kennedy Park
and, bracing his cup of coffee, mingled with the other day laborers waiting for
job offers from landscapers or contractors. A gray car approached and a driver
wearing a hard hat said he needed three fellows to tear down a fence. He offered
them $11 an hour. Mr. Barrera and two others squeezed into the car.

Minutes later, in a nearby parking lot, the three laborers stepped out and were
seized and handcuffed by a half-dozen men in green jackets. The hard-hatted
driver and men in green turned out to be Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents.

''I was really surprised, so I asked the person: 'What did I do? What crime did
I commit?' '' Mr. Barrera recalled in an emotional interview in an Ecuadorean
restaurant here. ''I said: 'I'm no criminal. I just went out to look for work.'
''

Mr. Barrera, who is 41 years old, and 10 other day laborers were charged with
being in this country without proper documents. Two agreed to be deported and
the others are facing deportation. Mr. Barrera said he spent five days in jail
in Hartford and Boston before he was allowed to call a relative, his
brother-in-law, and 12 more days passed before he was released on $1,500 bail.
The four Ecuadoreans who share his apartment, he said, were ''wondering why I
don't come home to sleep.''

''They humiliated us like any criminal,'' he said.

The question hovering over the sting -- one that a group of Yale Law School
students are asking -- is, how did the man in the hard hat know that Mr. Barrera
and the others were illegal aliens?

The students, who work in the Jerome N. Frank Legal Services Organization, a
training clinic, filed a Freedom of Information request this month for documents
about the arrests. They want to know what ''reasonable suspicion'' the federal
agents had for assuming that the 11 men were illegal aliens. Standing on a
street corner while being Hispanic is not enough, the courts have ruled.

True, if you pick out a laborer at random from the Kennedy Park job bazaar,
chances are you'll choose someone who is in this country without a visa. So the
federal agents had the odds in their favor, batting 11 for 11 by simply asking
who wanted a job.

But is that how this country is supposed to work? The Fourth Amendment protects
people against ''unreasonable searches and seizures'' and requires ''probable
cause.'' The public would be outraged if agents lured a Connecticut Yankee in
suit and tie into a car and took him for a drive while checking his credentials.
Yes, immigration authorities have an obligation to enforce the law, but, they
have to do it in a manner that passes constitutional muster. That would mean
that before seizing Mr. Barrera, the authorites would have had to gather
evidence that he was here without a visa.''You can't look at an individual and
tell whether they're documented or undocumented,'' said Staci Jonas, a
third-year law student at Yale.

The students who filed the Freedom of Information request also want to know what
role Danbury officials played in the sting. The question puts City Hall in the
crosshairs because Mayor Mark D. Boughton has gained a national reputation for
being tough on illegal immigrants. In an interview, Mr. Boughton said he did not
know of the sting beforehand. He has been meeting with representatives of the
Ecuadorean groups, but he has not complained about how the government treated 11
of his city's residents. ''If you're not documented in this country, you should
be worried because this can happen.'' Mr. Boughton said. Marc Raimondi, a
spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said he couldn't comment on
the students' complaint other than to say that the agency conducts ''targeted
and coordinated enforcement actions.'' But, he added, ''People who are in United
States illegally should not be surprised if they're held accountable.''

Such comments miss the point. Stings are a legitimate, and necessary, tool of
law enforcement. But they are usually based on evidence that the person under
investigation is likely to commit a crime. When undercover officers buy cocaine,
they buy from someone who they know has been seen selling drugs.

Mr. Barrera's student-counselors have asked reporters not to question him about
his immigration status. The guess is that if his status were completely kosher,
the counselors would not have imposed such conditions. Mr. Barrera, though, in
the restaurant, confided some personal details. He said he had a wife and two
children back in Ecuador to whom he sends $300 a week.

''I want to offer what I have to this country, which is my labor,'' he said.
''All we want is to work.'' On Sept. 19, he showed up to do a day's work , and
what the Yale students are suggesting is that he was treated instead as if he
were there to sell cocaine.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2007



CORRECTION: A column last Sunday on a day laborer who was arrested in Danbury
misspelled the given name of one of several Yale Law School students who is
representing him. She is Stacie Jonas, not Staci.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Alan S. Orling for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Place Like Home

BYLINE: By Colum McCann.

Colum McCann is the author of the forthcoming novel ''Zoli.''

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 818 words


EVERY immigrant carries in him or her a certain quiet desire to be wounded. It's
the nature of leaving in the first place. We leave in order, one day, to
remember. This nostalgia slips between our rib cages and turns our hearts a few
notches backward.

It becomes most acute in the days between Dec. 25 and Jan. 1, in the lull
between the realization that we really are somewhere foreign and the blank-slate
promise of the new year, when it is possible to wipe all memory away.

You might stand on your town's main street and think: ''But this is not the
Dublin street I patrolled as a child, when all the women in headscarves hurried
toward Mass, and all the men ducked into the smoky pubs, and all the children
stood in the stunned silence between.'' You might walk up beneath the Christmas
tree on the village common and whisper: ''But this is not the orphan tree I
knew, the one that came from the dark suburban supermarket, the one that shed
itself half-bare before we even got home.'' You might pass the throbbing diner
near the train station and wonder how it is that people can be out and about on
St. Stephen's Day when all the world is supposed to be quiet, reverent and
dozing, fat as old tires, by the fireside.

You might drive past the brash billboard for the New Year's Eve lingerie sale --
on a Sunday of all things! -- and wonder what old Father George, the jowly
priest from Cabinteely Parish Church, might have to say about that.

Be we Irish or Israeli or Mexican or Russian or Swedish it is the time of year
when every immigrant realizes that he or she is also an emigrant. We've gone.
We've left our youth behind. It's not coming back, and we're not home to
reinvent it. It's pure nostalgia, of course, but it's the sort of nostalgia that
has a warm and loving sting to it.

The purpose of memory is to depict -- and therefore to make as if forever
present -- what is absent. We learn to make up for what is lost. And so we go
back by staying away.

Sometimes I think that I remember my Decembers in a sharp manner, simply because
of the very fact that I have been gone from my home country for the best part of
two decades. I can hear the tick of the white radiator on Christmas morning. I
can touch the moist cloth as it's taken off the Christmas pudding. I can feel
the wool of the new Dunnes Stores sweater worn tentatively the morning after,
scared that my friends might bellyache over the ridiculous diamond pattern. I
recall hiding the new woolly gloves in the outside hedges -- they looked far too
girly to be worn to a soccer match. And I can still feel the thrum of the
secondhand bike tires beneath my feet.

There was a sheer length in the days that ran up to New Year's Eve -- the hours
were slow and full, as if first star could never meet last. The new electronic
games always ran out of batteries. The deck of cards was always missing the jack
of hearts. The dustbin men seemed terribly unhappy at the amount of rubbish that
was left on the street corner. They did not whistle outside our gate for a tip.
Time went so slowly that we almost wished for school, but then came the job of
the New Year's resolution, not to smoke a second cigarette by the bike shed,
never to hide my sister's toothbrush, to some day return my older brother's
gloves.

Indeed, all of these times now -- with my own children, my American children --
are full of the times back then.

There are new rituals in our household. It seems that Santa Claus in the United
States gets only milk and cookies, but as my father did, I slip him a glass of
whiskey just to keep the memory intact. I don't bash the good saucepans on New
Year's Eve, but I do try to keep my children awake to make a little noise at the
stroke of midnight: I can see my mother smiling on the doorstep. If it snows,
I'll tell my children all my old tobogganing stories, especially the one when my
younger brother came down Killiney Hill and smashed into a tree. And if we have
a fire in the fireplace, or even if we invent one, I might try to remember what
it was like to watch my older brother extinguish the errant embers with his
fingers.

There is a lovely Portuguese word, ''saudade,'' which indicates that person or
place or object that draws out of us our most extreme or improbable yearning. It
is a feeling for something that is gone, but might, one day, return. It often
hits us at the most peculiar times, a need for presence as opposed to absence.

That is what these late December days mean to me -- a certain sort of saudade.

I presume it's what it also means to so many immigrants, no matter where we come
from -- we with our vagrant voices, we whose accent has grown fuller in our
absence, we who sometimes think that the only home we have is our names, we who
return by staying, we who are both here and there at the same time, we who are
happy and unhappy both, we who use these days as our hinterland.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 1, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Department of Household Security

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 312 words


Thousands of handicapped immigrants who received asylum to enter the United
States are beginning the new year caught up in the immense backlog of background
checks that now chokes government administration in the wake of 9/11. The glut
of all cases from years past is 2.7 million and growing, according to the
F.B.I., as investigators receive a weekly torrent of 67,000 new requests -- half
of them from the immigration services dealing with the normal flood of mostly
healthy newcomers.

Congress understood the special plight of handicapped immigrants who are granted
asylum and made sure they are entitled to monthly disability benefits of $603
each as they go through the citizenship process. But it turns out that more than
6,000 people, including some who are amputees or blind, have already found their
benefits cut off, and tens of thousands more face a similar fate, because they
exceeded the seven-year deadline Congress originally considered adequate for
obtaining citizenship.

Lawyers for the handicapped are suing the government, pointing out that these
cases increasingly are victims of the background backlog. Unless a solution is
ordered, officials estimate another 46,000 will have their benefits cut off by
2012 as they become delayed in the pipeline.

Here is a classic problem of overstrained bureaucracy in which culpability is
diffuse and the results are all too poignant. Social Security officials say that
there is no way around the law's seven-year deadline, while background
investigators are overwhelmed by security checks with no relief in sight. One
solution is to flag the handicapped immigrants as special cases who don't
deserve a loss of benefits in the crush of antiterrorist concerns. The
immigration law has a host of problems to be tackled by the new Congress, and
handicapped newcomers should be among the first to get some attention.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 2, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

AS IRAQIS FLEE, FEW ARE GAINING SANCTUARY IN U.S.

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and ROBERT F. WORTH; Sabrina Tavernise reported
from Baghdad and Robert F. Worth from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1858 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Jan. 1


With thousands of Iraqis desperately fleeing this country every day, advocates
for refugees, and even some American officials, say there is an urgent need to
allow more Iraqi refugees into the United States.

Until recently the Bush administration had planned to resettle just 500 Iraqis
this year, a mere fraction of the tens of thousands of Iraqis who are now
believed to be fleeing their country each month. State Department officials say
they are open to admitting larger numbers, but are limited by a cumbersome and
poorly financed United Nations referral system.

''We're not even meeting our basic obligation to the Iraqis who've been
imperiled because they worked for the U.S. government,'' said Kirk W. Johnson,
who worked for the United States Agency for International Development in Falluja
in 2005. ''We could not have functioned without their hard work, and it's
shameful that we've nothing to offer them in their bleakest hour.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat who is taking over the
immigration, border security and refugee subcommittee, plans hearings this month
on America's responsibility to help vulnerable Iraqis. An estimated 1.8 million
Iraqis are living outside Iraq. The pace of the exodus has quickened
significantly in the past nine months.

Some critics say the Bush administration has been reluctant to create a
significant refugee program because to do so would be tantamount to conceding
failure in Iraq. They say a major change in policy could happen only as part of
a broader White House shift on Iraq.

''I don't know of anyone inside the administration who sees this as a priority
area,'' said Lavinia Limon, president of the United States Committee for
Refugees and Immigrants, a nongovernmental refugee resettlement agency based in
Washington. ''If you think you're winning, you think they're going to go back
soon.''

For Iraqis, a tie to the United States is a life-threatening liability,
particularly in harder-line Sunni neighborhoods. In 2003, Laith, an Army
interpreter who would allow only his first name to be used, got a note
threatening his family if he did not quit his job. His neighborhood, Adhamiya,
was full of Baath Party loyalists. A month later, his father opened the door to
a stranger, who shot him dead.

Laith's mother begged him to stop working, but his salary, $700 a month at the
time, supported the entire family. Then someone threw a sound grenade at the
house. Graffiti appeared on a wall in ugly black paint accusing Laith of selling
information about insurgents to the military. Laith and his family moved out of
the house. Soon after, it was broken into and photographs of him with American
soldiers were found in a family photo album.

''They know me,'' he said, sitting in one of Baghdad's hotels, because his
family would not allow a Western reporter inside the house. ''They know when I
come and go.''

Many Iraqis who worked for Americans have already fled the capital or the
country, and many plead for help or asylum on a daily basis. Of some 40
nationalities seeking asylum in European countries in the first half of 2006,
Iraqis ranked first with more than 8,100 applications, according to the United
Nations.

Remarkably few apply for refugee status in the United States, mainly because
most Iraqis, even those who have worked for the United States government here,
simply assume that getting American status is all but impossible. Iraqis cannot
apply directly for refugee status in the American Embassy in Baghdad.

Another interpreter, Amar, who did not want his full name used, went to at least
10 embassies during a trip to Jordan last fall, but found only blank faces. He
counts his sacrifice for America in bones and skin. He is missing a finger, an
eye and part of his skull, after a large bomb exploded next to his Humvee last
year. He has received two threats to his life. Two bodyguards accompany him
everywhere. He stays in three different houses to confuse potential attackers.

''They said they have nothing for Iraqis,'' said Amar, sitting in a small house
in western Baghdad. ''We feel just like stupid trash.''

Until recently, the administration did not appear to understand the gravity of
the problem. State Department officials say they are now open to increasing the
number of refugee slots the administration formally requested for Iraqis in
September. That request already allows for as many as 20,000 more refugees from
unspecified countries.

But advocates for refugees say that such an increase is unlikely if no special
measures are taken, namely designating Iraqis as a group in peril and
formalizing a system for receiving them.

Ellen R. Sauerbrey, the assistant secretary of state for population, refugees
and migration, said the United States was hoping to identify the most vulnerable
Iraqi refugees but was also dependent on the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees to do that.

Officials at the United Nations refugee branch acknowledge that they have moved
slowly in identifying refugees, largely because of procedural obstacles and lack
of money. The agency's budget for Syria last year was $700,000, less than one
dollar for each Iraqi refugee in that country. The United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees said in October that its Iraq program was $9 million
short and that some employees were going without salaries.

The State Department spent $35 million on Iraqi refugees in Iraq and the region
in 2006. The United States spends approximately $8 billion a month on the war.

But there is no legal requirement for the United States to rely on the United
Nations. It has run its own programs in the past, notably in Southeast Asia.
Hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese were ultimately resettled in the United
States after the American withdrawal from Vietnam in 1975. In that instance, a
number of aid groups in neighboring countries divided the work of interviewing
and assessing refugees, a system Ms. Limon and many other advocates for refugees
are pushing for Iraqis today.

The United States has even run similar programs in Iraq, helping to resettle
about 40,000 Iraqi refugees in the United States and other countries after a
failed uprising against Saddam Hussein in 1991. In 1996, about 6,500 Iraqis who
had links to an American-sponsored coup attempt against Mr. Hussein were granted
asylum.

The Bush administration suspended resettlement of Iraqi refugees after the Sept.
11 attacks, and it did not resume until April 2005, after the process had begun
for other Arab countries. A total of 198 Iraqis were resettled in the United
States as refugees in the fiscal year of 2005, and 202 in 2006, but most were in
the pipeline before the 2003 invasion, and few of the cases address the
increasingly dire situation for Iraqis today.

Iraqis who work with the military often have to live separately from their
families, to avoid putting them in danger. One 25-year-old interpreter left home
when his parents in Mosul, in northern Iraq, learned of his work. Now in
Baghdad, he has been back home rarely.

Laith lives with an aunt, away from his wife, in an area where no one knows him.
After a visit to his parents several months ago, a stranger asked about his
8-year-old brother at a boys' school. The family fears that it was the early
stages of a kidnapping.

''I bring a lot of troubles when I go to visit my family,'' he said, smoking a
cigarette.

Congress approved one program last year to help get special immigrant status for
Iraqi interpreters who have worked for the United Statesmilitary. Laith has
tried to apply. The law, which also applies to Afghan interpreters, is capped at
50 a year. Laith was told he needed a senior officer to vouch for him, but he
has not worked with one recently, and the one he had worked with is now back in
the United States.

Getting such letters, Laith said, has become increasing difficult, because the
interpreters for the most senior American officers now tend to be Arabic
speakers hired from the United States, not from Iraq.

The State Department has made it clear that it is deeply concerned about the
fate of Iraq's religious minorities, including Christians. Officials at the
department say that any refugee program must also be geared to those vulnerable
groups.

As many as 100,000 exiled Iraqi Christians have relatives in the United States
and would want to resettle there if given the chance, said Joseph T. Kassab, the
executive director of the Chaldean Federation of America, a Michigan-based
umbrella group that represents Iraqi Christians. Mr. Kassab said his group's
estimates were based on questionnaires devised by University of Michigan
professors and filled out by several thousand Iraqi Christian refugees in Syria,
Jordan and Lebanon in recent months.

State Department officials and some advocates for refugees agree that the United
States is not likely to begin resettling large numbers of Iraqis anytime soon.
New counterterrorism laws after Sept. 11 have slowed immigration, particularly
from countries in the Middle East, and Iraqi applications would be bogged down
by those security issues.

A State Department refugee official said that any American resettlement effort
would deal with only a small part of the overall refugee problem in the region.

Ms. Limon agreed, saying, ''We'll have trouble with the few thousand who work in
the Green Zone.''

A quicker way to help would be to increase financing to countries that are
accepting Iraqis -- Jordan, Syria and Lebanon -- and press those governments to
improve their treatment of Iraqis by allowing them to work and travel, officials
and advocates said.

That would be a real service for Iraqis in Jordan, who speak of rude and
sometimes abusive treatment. Jordanians often do not allow Iraqis to bring in
suitcases, travelers said, and have been known to turn away young men, forcing
families to continue on without them.

''Put yourself in my shoes,'' said an Iraqi working in an American Army base who
spent eight hours in the January cold last year with his wife and infant at the
Jordanian border. ''You take your family to another country and they interview
you like you are a terrorist.''

A residency permit is required, and Iraqis must deposit 50,000 Jordanian dinars
-- about $70,000 -- in a bank without drawing on it for a year to obtain one.
The worker, who wanted to be identified only as Abu Hussein, eventually moved
his family back to Iraq, to the south, because he could not afford to stay in
Jordan.

''The Americans are in control of this country,'' he said, talking about Jordan.
''Why don't they become angry at how they are treating us?''

Abu Hussein is lucky: He lives on the Army base where he works. Laith does not
have that luxury. He pays $400 to two guards and a driver to bring him to
Baghdad from an American base near Beiji. Insurgents pay taxi drivers near the
base to call them when they see a single man with a large overnight bag, he
said. Once a cab driver recognized his face.

''I worked for three years, I lost a lot of things,'' he said, his voice urgent.
''It's supposed to be some respect for me.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laith, an Army interpreter, received a note threatening his
family if he did not quit his job. A month later, his father was shot and
killed. (Photo by Johann Spanner for The New York Times)
 Young men pack the roof of a bus at Salhiye Street in Baghdad. Hundreds of
people leave every day from the bus station to go to Syria and Jordan. (Photo by
Johann Spanner for The New York Times)(pg. A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

First Baby of 2007? Toy Chain's Prize Runs Afoul of the Immigration Issue

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words


It seemed like a perfect formula for good publicity: A national sweepstakes
would award a $25,000 United States savings bond to the first American baby born
in 2007, courtesy of the toy chain Toys ''R'' Us and its Babies ''R'' Us
division.

Instead, after disqualifying a Chinese-American baby girl born in New York
Downtown Hospital at the stroke of midnight on New Year's, the toy company finds
itself caught in the glare of the immigration debate, stumbling over the
nation's new demographic realities.

The baby girl, Yuki Lin, was an American citizen from the second the ball
dropped in Times Square, where the Toys ''R'' Us flagship store draws thousands
of shoppers from around the world. But like 6 out of 10 babies born in the city
-- including at least two others born in Brooklyn about the same moment -- she
has immigrant parents. And according to the contest's fine print, the chain
decided, she was ruled out because her mother was not a legal resident.

The first baby of the year is usually a one-day story. But Albert H. Wang, a
corporate lawyer who read about Yuki Lin's lost chance on the Web site of the
Chinese-language newspaper The World Journal, was outraged enough to start an
e-mail campaign that is enlisting the ire of prominent Chinese-Americans like
the president of the Asian American Business Development Center and officers of
the Organization of Chinese Americans.

Their criticism, and threats of a media campaign against the company, come just
a month after the chain opened its first store in China, in Shanghai.

''They want business from China,'' said Mr. Wang, 39, adding that most of the
chain's toys are made by Chinese workers in China. ''But when it comes to this
Chinese-American U.S. citizen, she was deprived of $25,000 intended to be used
for her college education, because of who her parents are.''

Kathleen Waugh, a spokeswoman for the company, confirmed yesterday that Yuki
Lin, born at 6.5 pounds and 19 inches long, had been close to winning the prize.
The baby won a random drawing to break a three-way tie with hospitals in
Gainesville, Ga., and Bay Shore, N.Y., which also claimed a baby born at
midnight.

But, Ms. Waugh added, ''in working with New York Downtown Hospital to verify the
potential winner's information and obtain a signed affidavit of eligibility --
which is required under the official rules of the sweepstakes -- the sweepstakes
administrator was informed that the mother of the baby born at New York Downtown
Hospital was not a legal resident of the United States.'' Contest rules say that
only mothers who are legal residents are eligible, Ms. Waugh said, adding that
such requirements are common in sweepstakes.

The award went instead to the runner-up in the drawing, Jayden Swain, born 19
seconds after midnight at Northeast Georgia Medical Center to Renee Swain, 20,
described by her mother as ''a black American.'' ''She's an American all the
way,'' Ms. Swain's mother, Janet K. Keller, said in a telephone interview.

The baby at Bay Shore was born to a couple from El Salvador.

Mr. Wang and other Chinese-Americans say the winner was to be the baby, not the
mother, and they see implications of second-class citizenship that strike an
ugly chord. It only seemed to add insult to injury, they said, that the baby was
instead given a $100 gift basket, just like all the others the chain gives to
the first New Year's babies born in any hospital that signs up for it.

''People are just pretty much outraged,'' said John Wang, president of the
13-year-old Asian American Business Development Center, on Wall Street, adding
that he was perplexed by the company's actions.

''The schools accept children whose parents are illegal aliens in this country,
so why is Toys 'R' Us taking this kind of position?'' he asked. ''They're
supported by many people, whether they're legal or illegal, shopping in their
stores, and they're injecting themselves into this debate.''

The parents could not be reached for comment, and their exact immigration status
was unclear. Vanessa Warner, a spokeswoman for New York Downtown Hospital, would
not answer questions about the event, though an upbeat account of the birth and
photos of the parents and medical team were on the hospital Web site yesterday.
The mother is Han Lin and the father is Yan Zhu Liu, both 22-year-old restaurant
workers.

Leo Y. Lee, 49, an engineer who is past national vice president of the
Organization of Chinese Americans, an advocacy organization, pointed out that
the savings bond was awarded in the name of the baby, not the mother, and that
there was no legal requirement for a rule barring the American-born child of an
illegal immigrant.

''I am strongly opposed to the Toys 'R' Us decision to give the award to another
baby just based solely on the mother's status,'' he said. His group, he said,
does not ''condone or approve illegal immigration, but anyone who is here should
be protected by law -- especially a baby with the same rights as any other
citizen.''

But comments by Ms. Keller, the grandmother of the winning baby, hinted at the
wrath that the company risked from the other side at a time when the most
stringent critics of illegal immigration have called for an end to birthright
citizenship, saying the children born to illegal immigrants are ''anchor
babies'' who encourage illegal entry.

''If she's an illegal alien, that makes the baby illegal,'' said Ms. Keller, 50.
Told otherwise, she remarked, ''Sounds like a double standard to me,'' adding,
''She was disqualified -- that should be it. Don't go changing your mind now.''

Adding to the confusion were promotional materials that called for ''all
expectant New Year's mothers'' to apply to the contest, and allowed hospitals
and Ob/Gyn offices to apply on behalf of their patients. The hospitals were
offered a chance to win a $10,000 prenatal education grant. About 8,000 mothers
and more than 800 hospitals participated in the contest, Ms. Waugh said.

Ole Pedersen, a spokesman for Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center
in Brooklyn, said the hospital initially believed it had won the sweepstakes
with the midnight birth of Odunayo Muhammed to a Nigerian immigrant couple,
Christiana and Abdul Muhammed. Later he learned that the doctor who reported the
birth online had missed the contest's 6 a.m. deadline on Jan. 1 by an hour and a
half.

As for a mother's legal status, Mr. Pedersen added, ''We wouldn't have even
thought of that.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2007



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about a controversy over a national
sweepstakes awarding a $25,000 savings bond to the first American baby born in
2007 gave an erroneous birth weight in some copies for a Chinese-American girl,
born in Manhattan, who was disqualified because her mother was not a legal
resident. The girl, Yuki Lin, weighed 6.5 pounds, not 6.5 ounces. (The sponsor
of the sweepstakes, Toys ''R'' Us, has since reversed its decision and awarded
Yuki and two other babies born shortly after midnight $25,000 each.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yuki Lin, held by her mother, Han Lin, with her father, Yan Zhu
Liu, center, and Dr. Kin Kong. (Photo by World Journal)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Gets 30 Years in Subway Bomb Plot

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words


A federal judge sentenced a 24-year-old Pakistani immigrant yesterday to 30
years in prison for plotting to bomb the Herald Square subway station in 2004,
moments after the defendant apologized to the judge and prosecutors but blamed a
police informer for his fate.

The immigrant, Shahawar Matin Siraj, who has been held without bail since he and
another man were arrested on Aug. 27, 2004, three days before the Republican
National Convention, stood with his shoulders slumped as the judge, Nina Gershon
of United States District Court in Brooklyn, meted out his sentence.

Dressed in a blue short-sleeved prison smock with a white long-underwear shirt
beneath it, Mr. Siraj offered a brief, disjointed apology before the judge
pronounced sentence. He paused briefly to take two long sips of water when his
voice began to break.

He cited statements he had made about his plan to blow up the subway and his
anger at America, statements that were secretly recorded by a Police Department
informer who defense lawyers argued lured him into the plot. The tapes were
played at the trial.

''Your honor I want to apologize about whatever I said in the tapes -- I wish I
could take those words back but it already happened, I already said those
things,'' he said. ''I'm taking responsibility for 34th Street, but I was
manipulated by this person.''

But the jury in the case, which deliberated 10 hours over two days, rejected his
entrapment defense. It had centered on the paid informer, who defense lawyers
said had stoked Mr. Siraj's rage with images of Muslims abused at the hands of
Americans, including photographs of soldiers abusing inmates at the Abu Ghraib
prison in Iraq. Mr. Siraj was convicted on May 24 on four counts of conspiracy,
including the most serious, plotting to bomb a public transportation system.

Judge Gershon, when she handed down the sentence, noted that while some of the
recordings captured Mr. Siraj saying the attack should occur at the time the
station was the least busy, it would nonetheless have been deadly and
devastating.

''The crimes committed here were extremely serious,'' she said. ''They had the
potential, if not thwarted, to wreak havoc with the New York City transportation
system, indeed, the tristate-area transportation system.''

She added that such an attack would have meant enormous economic losses,
disruption and loss of life.

The men never obtained explosives, there was no timetable for an attack, and the
men were not linked to any known terrorist group.

Indeed, the informer, Osama Eldawoody, 50, told Mr. Siraj and the other man who
was arrested, James Elshafay, that he worked for a fictitious group called the
Brotherhood and said he would be able to provide the explosives for the plot.
Mr. Elshafay began cooperating with prosecutors shortly after his arrest and
also testified against Mr. Siraj.

Under federal sentencing guidelines, Mr. Siraj, who came to the United States
from Pakistan with his parents in 1999, faced 30 years to life in prison. He had
turned down a plea deal offered by prosecutors under which he would have been
sentenced to 10 years in prison.

The hours of tapes played at trial revealed an angry man who raged against
America, praised Osama bin Laden and predicted additional terror attacks in the
United States, all while discussing his bomb plot.

Yesterday, the courtroom was crowded, largely with news reporters and law
enforcement officials. Mr. Siraj's parents, appearing stunned when the sentence
was dispensed, were also in the courtroom, and his uncle sat in the last row.
His mother, Shahina Parveen, dressed in a patterned light blue tunic and pants,
and a white head scarf, clutched a string of pale green prayer beads that she
had carried during the trial.

After the proceeding, she began to cry as she sat on a bench outside the
courtroom and talked to one of her son's lawyers, Khurrum B. Wahid, slipping a
tissue behind her glasses. Later, she spoke briefly to reporters, maintaining
her son's innocence and saying he would appeal.

''The N.Y.P.D., through a paid informant, tricked my son and got him stuck in
this,'' Ms. Parveen said, as Mr. Wahid translated from the Urdu. ''He didn't do
anything. I didn't get any justice. It was not a fair sentence.''

But the Police Department, which investigated the case, the first in which a
terrorism inquiry by its Intelligence Division led to a prosecution in federal
court, hailed the sentence, calling it ''a milestone in the safeguarding of New
York City.''

''It says that those who conspire against New York will pay a severe price,''
Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said in a statement, praising the Intelligence
Division, saying it ''uncovered a murderous plot in its infancy and stopped it
before lives were lost.''

After the sentencing, Mr. Siraj's lead lawyer, Martin J. Stolar, called the
prison term ''outrageous.''

''The New York City Police Department was able to create a crime in order to
solve it, and claim a victory in the war on terror, and that's what he was
sentenced as, rather than a dimwit who was manipulated'' by an informer, he
said.

But the prosecutors in the case, Todd Harrison and Marshall L. Miller, argued
that Mr. Siraj was in control.

''He knew exactly what was going on and was the initiator of all the steps,''
Mr. Harrison said. He added that Mr. Siraj had come up with the plan, conducted
surveillance of the station on his own and directed how the bombers should
dress, where the bomb should be placed and what their escape route should be.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shahawar Matin Siraj (pg. B1)
 Shahina Parveen and her husband, Siraj Rehman, the parents of Shahawar Matin
Siraj, leaving court after their son was sentenced. (Photo by Ramin Talaie for
The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2007 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

In Texas, Monarchs Flutter And Admirals Alight

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1727 words


MEXICAN blue wing butterflies defy stereotype. They prefer shade to sunlight.
They are dark, not bright. They seek tree bark, rather than blooms. And they are
one of the reasons Mel and Maris Midgley traveled from Gloucestershire, England,
to southern Texas and the Lower Rio Grande Valley.

''You can walk right up to them,'' said Ms. Midgley as she displayed a vivid
image of the blue wing on her digital camera. ''You can't do that with a bird.''

Indeed, it is the kingfishers, green jays, kiskadees and other birds that thrive
along the Rio Grande that make this 275-mile stretch of the river a prime
destination for nature lovers. Some 500 bird species have been sighted in the
four-county region, making it the most concentrated area in the United States
for birds, according to experts. To a growing number of eco-tourists, the region
is also the center of butterflying. Of the 700 varieties found in the United
States, 300 alight here.

As rich as the region is for birders and butterfliers, some naturalists say the
area is now threatened because of the border fence legislation signed in late
October by President Bush to help curb illegal immigration. The details on just
what such a fence would look like have not been made public yet, but
environmentalists and people who depend on nature tourism, which brings an
estimated $125 million to the area annually, are concerned.

''A physical fence on the river doesn't make sense because the river is so
winding, and it would eliminate the last remnant of the native riparian forest
down here,'' said Keith Hackland, a local naturalist, noting that in some places
the green corridor is only 50 to 100 feet wide. ''Even if birds and butterflies
could fly over, they would have nowhere to fly to.''

Possible threats to the environment notwithstanding, the North American
Butterfly Association is continuing to expand its flagship butterfly park in the
Lower Rio Grande Valley town of Mission. ''This is the only place they could put
a park like this,'' said Sue Sill, executive director of the park, which opened
in 2002. ''We have butterflies 12 months of the year and see more butterflies
than anywhere else.''

Monarchs and the similar species known as queens, crepe-paperlike yellow
sulfurs, large black swallowtails and ornate red admirals swarm the
five-foot-tall purple-flowered crucita bushes that have been planted on five
acres of rehabilitated cotton and sorghum fields at the NABA International
Butterfly Park. In the next two years, the organization expects to build a
visitors' center designed by architect Wendy Evans Joseph and to replant more of
the 100 acres it has acquired for the park. Already it's a destination for
butterfliers like the Midgleys, who are former birders.

''Most birders appreciate beautiful things. It's easy to turn them onto
something like this,'' Mr. Midgley said. ''And you don't have to get up as
early.''

Whereas birding is usually best at dawn and dusk, midday is prime time for
viewing heat-loving butterflies. Late fall and winter are high season in
southern Texas because butterfly migration and greater rainfall help the flowers
that provide food for many species. Any butterfly safari here inevitably
involves sharing the wild with birders, as my 7-year-old son, Seth, and I
discovered in November. We signed up for a canoe trip on the Rio Grande along a
stretch protected by the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge with Mr. Hackland
and Cheryl Longton, a park volunteer guide.

''There are so many butterflies now it's distracting,'' Ms. Longton said as we
passed the park's butterfly garden.

''That makes it hard to bird,'' said Allison Hilf, a birder from Denver in the
group.

THE rio might have once been grand, but dams upriver have narrowed it
considerably, to less than 200 feet wide in some places and as shallow as a foot
in parts. Still, as the river wound through native forest of old-growth oaks
festooned in Spanish moss and banks of tall riverside reeds, it seemed exotic
beside the fields of kale and cabbage that bordered the reserve. Herons -- great
blue, tricolored, green and night -- perched on downed limbs and flew away only
when we came too near. Green and ringed kingfishers crisscrossed our canoes.
There were periods of manic activity, when hundreds of dragonflies would patrol
the river or flocks of swallows would swoop at insect hatches. Where flowering
vines cascaded down from the trees, butterflies perched, warming their wings in
the morning sun.

Hot-orange Julias and the cloisonne underwings of gulf fritillaries stood out
boldly against the foliage, while small, brown American snouts and pale white
peacocks hovered over the water.

''Temperate meets tropical here, both in terms of vegetation and climate,'' Mr.
Hackland said, noting that the Fish and Wildlife Service has identified 11
distinct biological communities in the region. ''Butterflies are a good
indicator of that. You don't get great varieties without diverse vegetation. We
have huge diversity here, including semidesert, riparian tropical forest,
freshwater and saltwater. It's biologically one of the most diverse areas in the
United States.''

An emerald green malachite butterfly, the kind of quarry butterfliers buzz
about, flew over our van as it crested the levee, towing the canoes back to the
visitors' center. ''This is what the rest of Texas looks like,'' Ms. Longton
said, indicating the flat fields opposite the levee. ''Only 5 percent of the
natural habitat is left.''

The Santa Ana refuge is part of a larger plan by Fish and Wildlife to string
together nature preserves along the river to provide a wildlife corridor not
only for birds and butterflies but for the endangered ocelot and other native
animals. So far, 40,000 acres of the Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife
Refuge are open to the public en route to an envisioned 132,500 acres bordering
the final 275 miles of the river from Falcon Dam south to the Gulf of Mexico.
But the entire project, critics say, is threatened by the proposed immigration
fence.

''Most people here are against it for social reasons. You don't want to put up a
fence to keep out the neighbors,'' said Martin Hagne, director of the Valley
Nature Center in Weslaco. ''It could wipe out all that habitat it has taken 20
years to develop.''

While specific designs for the fence remain a mystery, the Secure Fence Act
calls for it to be completed by 2008 and for the Lower Rio Grande Valley portion
to run from Laredo to Brownsville.

Jarrod Agen, a spokesman in Washington for the Department of Homeland Security,
said yesterday that the agency would consider the concerns of environmentalists
in any decision about the form of the wall, adding that cameras and sensors
might prove more effective in a rural area. ''We are looking at a mix of
physical barriers as well as technology to have have full surveillance of the
border,'' he said.

Mr. Hagne and some other environmentalists are hoping the barrier will indeed be
some type of virtual fence made up of electronic surveillance devices that would
preserve the habitat, rather than a solid wall or fence, which, if built on the
shore, might require clearing vegetation for patrol paths.

In one of the nation's fastest growing regions, eco-advocates already fight
developers and agricultural interests for space. Butterflying and birding there
require hopscotching from one nature preserve to the next in a central core of
communities over 30 miles, from Mission in the west to Weslaco in the east, with
the busy McAllen at the center. Vast farm fields and RV parks buffer sights that
include the Edinburg Scenic Wetlands, the Valley Nature Center, Quinta Mazatlan
and Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park, where we attended an evening ''owl
prowl'' in search of nocturnal black witch moths and foraging javalina.

We found the navigating a do-it-yourselfers' dream, but the education was far
greater when joined by Mr. Hackland, who correctly identified the least grebes,
which we took for small ducks, differentiated the tawny emperor butterfly from
the white peacock and picked out a great barbecue joint, Willie's, near Santa
Ana.

Meanwhile, the local interest in wild things is expanding from birds to
butterflies and, lately, to dragonflies. ''People start out with birds,''
observed Shane Mooneyham, a naturalist at Estero Llano Grande State Park in
Weslaco, where we spot a bright red Needham's skimmer dragonfly in addition to a
swallowtail butterfly. ''When they've seen all they can see, they go to
butterflies. Then, dragonflies. It's the next natural pretty insect.''

ON THE WING

It's Always Butterflying Time

  AMERICAN, Continental and Delta offer connecting service to McAllen/Miller
International Airport, the most convenient airport in the Lower Rio Grande
Valley. A car is essential for getting around. A four-day compact rental from
Avis is about $75.

Renaissance Casa de Palmas Hotel (101 North Main Street, McAllen; 956-631-1101;
www.renaissancemcallen.com) has rooms from $99. The Alamo Inn (801 Main Street,
Alamo; 956-782-9912; www.alamoinnsuites.com; rooms from $55, though lower rates
may be available) is run by Keith Hackland, a naturalist who serves as a guide
for $200 a day.

Patos, tacos built to order, start at $1.19 each at El Pato (3019 North 10th
Street, McAllen; 956-682-1576).

The Original Willie's Bar-B-Que (320 South Alamo Road, Alamo; 956-702-1370)
offers smoky barbecue pork, chicken and beef from $6.50 a plate.

Fajitas ($8.95) are a specialty at El Dorado Restaurant (755 Main Street, Alamo;
956-787-8822).

The Blue Onion (423 South International Boulevard, Weslaco; 956-447-0067) has
flatbreads from $4 and creative entree salads ($8).

Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park (956-585-1107) is at 280 South Bentsen Palm
Drive in Mission.

Edinburg Scenic Wetlands (956-381-9922) is at 714 South Raul Longoria in
Edinburg.

Estero Llano Grande State Park (956-565-3919) is at 154A Lakeview Drive,
Weslaco.

NABA International Butterfly Park (956-583-9009) is at 3400 South Butterfly Park
Drive, Mission.

Quinta Mazatlan (956-688-3370) is at 600 Sunset Avenue, McAllen.

Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge on Highway 281 near Alamo (956-787-7861)
offers canoe trips November through April at $20 a person.

Valley Nature Center (956-969-2475) is at 301 South Border Avenue, Weslaco.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 2007



CORRECTION: An article last Friday about observing butterflies in the Lower Rio
Grande Valley misstated the trees that are hung with Spanish moss there. Many
indigenous trees, including species of elm and ash, have Spanish moss there, but
oaks are not among them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: INSECT ROYALTY -- A queen butterfly at the North American
Butterfly Association's park in Texas. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New
York Times)(pg. F1)
 DELICATE BALANCES -- A trail at the NABA International Butterfly Park, where a
Texan crescent, foreground left, shares space on a bush with a wasp, and a
queen, below, alights. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York
Times)(pg. F12) Map of Texas highlighting the NABA International Butterfly Park
and the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge. (pg. F12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 13, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sweden's Lightning Rod in a Storm Over Assimilation

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL; Ivar Ekman contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1236 words

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM


NYAMKO SABUNI would stand out anyway, being tiny, dark-skinned and obviously
foreign in a place where those things are still anomalies. But as the recently
appointed minister for integration and gender equality, she tends to draw more
attention for her unusually blunt pronouncements about the place of immigrants
in Swedish society.

As an opposition politician, Ms. Sabuni proposed banning the veil for girls
under the age of 15. She proposed that schoolgirls undergo compulsory medical
examinations to check for evidence of genital mutilation. She denounced what she
called the ''honor culture'' of some immigrant groups, proposed outlawing
arranged marriages and called for an end to state financing of religious
schools.

Even as furious immigrant and minority groups demand that she be removed from
her post, Ms. Sabuni, 37, insists that she is not as extreme as people make her
out to be. Given that Sweden is governed by a coalition in which parliamentary
votes cannot always be counted on, it is unlikely, anyway, that most of her
ideas could plausibly translate into actual law. Nonetheless, she stands by her
basic premise: that immigrants must try harder to fit in to their adopted
country.

''A lot of people misread their rights,'' she said recently. ''They think that
freedom of religion means that they can do anything in the name of religion, or
that human rights means that they can act however they want against others.''
Not true, she said. ''If they want to live here, have kids, have grandchildren,
they must make an effort to adapt to the society where they live.''

Ms. Sabuni comes across as a dervish, all business and kinetic energy. Barely
taller than five feet, she strode to lunch in a private dining room in Sweden's
handsome main government office building. She was interviewed in English and
answered back in rapid, precisely enunciated Swedish, explaining in perfect
English that ''I would prefer to speak in a language that I speak fluently.''

The daughter of a frequently jailed opposition politician in Congo, then Zaire,
who fled to Sweden as a political refugee, Ms. Sabuni has a past so singular for
Sweden that she arguably represents a minority of one. The story of how she
arrived here with her parents and five of her siblings at the age of 12, learned
Swedish, thrived in school and in college and ultimately got elected to
Parliament and elevated to the cabinet is almost American in its can-do
trajectory.

IF there is such a thing as a Swedish dream, Ms. Sabuni embodies it. Never, she
says, has she let herself feel like a victim or felt anything but accepted. Even
putting aside her native French and Swahili for Swedish proved fairly easy, she
insists.

She holds firm to that view even though, before entering Parliament, she was
regularly turned away from the jobs for which she applied, she said, getting
work only through contacts or by being recruited. But she refuses to dwell on
it. ''You can end up in a negative spiral where you attribute everything that
goes wrong to discrimination,'' she said.

Ms. Sabuni has certainly been helped in her career by the Scandinavian-style
feminism of her husband, Carl Bergquist, whom she began dating when she was 24
and he was 47. His regular hours at a travel agency allow him to devote himself
to the housework and their children, 5-year-old twins, leaving Ms. Sabuni free
to train her disciplined mind on her work.

The path of a migrant to Sweden is not so easy and clear as it was when the
Sabunis arrived in 1981, their relocation arranged by Amnesty International.
About 12 percent of the population of nine million is now foreign-born; Muslims
account for some 450,000.

Swedes are far less likely to welcome new arrivals now. Newcomers, who often
live in rundown immigrant neighborhoods, are less likely to learn Swedish and
more likely to go to all-immigrant schools and to remain unemployed and poor.

Sweden's experience has been mirrored across Europe, where governments with
histories of tolerance are struggling to find a way to absorb growing immigrant
populations, particularly Muslims. Some countries, like Denmark, have passed
tough anti-immigrant laws; others, like Britain, are rethinking the
live-and-let-live policies they now believe have failed.

Luciano Astudillo, a member of Parliament and the spokesman for immigration
issues for the opposition Social Democrats here, said Sweden must move quickly
to address its problems. Even though he believes that Ms. Sabuni's fiery
statements while in the opposition were delivered more for political consumption
than as serious propositions, Mr. Astudillo said that she had proved nothing but
divisive.

''She has used very simplistic and general language when talking about
problems,'' he said. ''She has often been the person who stressed the divisions
instead of finding what brings us together.''

But Ms. Sabuni, who grew up nonreligious although her mother is Muslim and her
father Christian, says that on the contrary, she is eager to start a coherent
dialogue. Muslims in particular have marginalized themselves by conveying an
impression of intolerance and aversion to change, she said.

''Practicing Muslims who live by the word of the Koran and the Koranic books --
of course they limit their own opportunities,'' she said. ''A lot of people who
live like me, or practicing Muslims who respect that religion is a private
matter, have had it easier than those who think religion should be part of a
larger society.

Ms. Subuni said many say, '' 'I need to pray five times a day because my
religion says so.' '' But she added: ''Which employer will accept that? Or, 'My
child shouldn't take part in music class, because my religion questions this.'
O.K., then we have a problem.''

AS the minister for gender equality, she is particularly troubled at evidence
that young Muslim girls are wearing the veil. ''I would like to know what is
happening in our society that makes families want to put a veil'' on our
children, she said. ''Maybe we don't need a law. Maybe we need something else so
that people don't feel so insecure that they need to manifest their religion by
using their children.''

Such talk infuriates Sweden's Muslim groups, who say that Ms. Sabuni is unfairly
singling them out while avoiding pressing issues like unemployment. And, they
say, she has essentially betrayed her past.

''I'm happy that she's a foreigner, and I'm happy about the color of her skin,
but I think maybe she has lost the connection to the immigrant communities,''
said Helena Benaouda, chairwoman of the Muslim Council of Sweden, the country's
largest Muslim group. ''Maybe she has thought too much about herself and her
political career, and she should try to remember that she's not representing
just herself.''

But Ms. Sabuni said that she was indeed sympathetic and that she fully
understood that both sides -- Sweden, and its immigrants -- had to change. ''We
have a society that has failed to adapt to new times,'' she said. ''We don't
offer people their rights, but we are also unclear about their obligations. So
people end up in a kind of no man's land, where they are neither Swedes, nor
Turks nor Congolese.''

She said she would identify herself as ''Afro-Swedish, maybe.'' But, she added,
''I feel cosmopolitan. As long as I have my parents, my siblings, my family with
me, I think I could fit in almost anywhere.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: NYAMKO SABUNI

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Dean Cox for The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 18, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Border Agent Kills Immigrant; Mexican Government Protests

BYLINE: By JONATHAN CLARK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: BISBEE, Ariz., Jan. 17


A Mexican immigrant was shot and killed on Friday by a Border Patrol agent in
Arizona, prompting an investigation by federal authorities and condemnation from
President Felipe Calderon of Mexico.

The immigrant, Francisco Javier Dominguez Rivera, 22, was shot as he and six
others were being taken into custody by a Border Patrol agent, shortly after
they crossed illegally into Cochise County in southeastern Arizona, between Naco
and Douglas. Before he was shot, Mr. Dominguez Rivera scuffled with the agent,
whose identity was not released, a Border Patrol spokesman said.

It was the first fatal shooting by a Border Patrol agent since Aug. 26, 2006,
when an agent killed a man who was throwing rocks from the Mexican side of the
border near Andrade, Calif., Xavier Rios, an agency spokesman, said.

The Cochise County Sheriff's Department and the federal Department of Homeland
Security, the parent agency of United StatesCustoms and Border Protection, are
investigating the shooting.

The F.B.I. is also looking at the case and will review the results of the other
inquiries before determining whether to expand its investigation, said an agency
spokeswoman in Phoenix.

''Any time there's an assault on a federal agent, we're involved,'' Deborah
McCarley, the Federal Bureau of Investigation spokeswoman, said. ''As we go
along, if information surfaces that there's been a civil rights violation, then
we obviously would take a look at that.''

Lt. Cmdr. Mark Dannels, a sheriff's department spokesman, said the shooting was
prompted by stone throwing. A Border Patrol statement called it a scuffle but
did not mention stone throwing.

Also, the two agencies' descriptions of where the shooting occurred differed by
several miles.

Initial reports suggested that Mr. Dominguez Rivera was unarmed, Jesus
Rodriguez, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in Tucson, said. Officials would
not be able to say for certain until the investigation was completed, Mr.
Rodriguez said.

President Calderon, who took office in December, said at a news conference on
Sunday, ''I want to begin by extending my deepest condolences, and then my most
energetic protest over the death of our countryman, a native of Puebla, who died
in Arizona from a gunshot after having been detained by the U.S. Border
Patrol.''

The Mexican Ministry of Foreign Relations sent a formal note to the State
Department expressing ''its serious concern over the recurrence of this type of
incident.''

At a news conference on Wednesday, Tom Casey, a State Department deputy
spokesman said, ''My understanding is we have received a diplomatic note from
the government of Mexico on this incident.''

Any response from the department would depend on the outcome of the federal
inquiries, he said.

Reached by telephone at his home in Cuautla in the south-central Mexican state
of Morelos, Renato Dominguez, father of the slain migrant, said he knew few
details about the shooting.

Mr. Dominguez said his son, who was traveling with two brothers at the time of
his death, had gone to the United States to look for work, not for trouble.

''If you were to come down here and ask anybody, they would tell you that he was
absolutely not the type of kid to be violent,'' Mr. Dominguez said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 26, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Queens Now Has Less Feta, More Jellyfish

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk; MY CITY; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1677 words


LIKE most New York immigrant stories, mine started with a long trip, a small
apartment in a humble neighborhood and hope for a better life. Sure enough, I
graduated from the little apartment to a bigger one, and then a house. I got a
better job and a better life. But 27 years later, the neighborhood remains the
same: Astoria, Queens.

Try as I might, I cannot think of a good reason to leave. From the Manhattan
perspective, Astoria makes some sense because it is, after all, only a few short
subway stops from Bloomingdale's. If you cannot afford Manhattan, well, Astoria
-- like Park Slope, Sunnyside, Cobble Hill and all the rest of the runner-up
darlings of the real-estate pages -- qualifies as a fallback position.

But that's not how I see it. For me, Astoria is not a satellite of Manhattan,
it's the gateway to Queens, a jumping-off point for the borough that, when it
comes to ethnic diversity, knows no equal. For me this is not an abstract
demographic issue. It is as real as the food on my plate.

As Astoria has changed, and along with it the rest of Queens, my feeding habits
have too, never more so than in the last couple of years. Three years ago I
stepped down as The Times's restaurant critic and re-entered civilian life. Gone
were the days of lavish Manhattan meals paid for by my employer. I rediscovered
my own kitchen and, at the same time, my own neighborhood. The parasitic life of
being fed by others was over. My wife, Nancy, and I were hunter-gatherers again.
But the terrain had changed.

In 1980, when my rent was $250 a month, Astoria was heavily Greek and Italian.
Broadway, my nearest shopping street, abounded in Italian delicatessens and
Greek butchers who hung hairy goat carcasses and fuzzy rabbits in the window.
Their number has dwindled with the years. A Swiss butcher named Rene operated a
truly anomalous store, a French-style boucherie. His ancient, white-haired
mother sat at the cash register and took the money. Rene, who looked like an
enormous slab of meat, took my orders for, say, noisette of pork, without
raising an eyebrow. Alas, Rene is long gone, as is Walken's Bakery a few doors
away, owned by the family of the actor Christopher Walken.

Other ethnic surprises survive. Although the original owner has retired, Astoria
Meat Products continues to sell Eastern European sausages, breads and jams. Big
chunks of double-smoked bacon and plump, garlicky kielbasa hang from steel rods
overhead. On weekends, when the mood strikes, I still drop by and pick up half a
smoked, glazed ham.

The Italians are almost all gone, and many of the Greeks have moved on too. The
demise of my favorite Greek deli had one fortunate consequence, though. It led
me to Titan Foods, a supermarket that draws Greek shoppers from miles around.
This is the place for olives -- nearly 20 varieties displayed in big steel
cylinders -- and for feta cheese in every gradation, from crumbly, salty Greek
styles to smoother, milder fetas from Bulgaria. It is almost shocking to report
that the French make feta too, the creamiest of all.

The real prize in the deli case at Titan is home-made yogurt, thick, tangy and
rich, a different species entirely from the standard grocery store brands. Titan
sells the standard Greek pastries from a bakery counter, but I go either to
Omonia Cafe, on Broadway, where the phyllo-topped custard is so good that I
finally asked the woman behind the counter to pronounce it for me so I could
order it by name. It's: galaktoboreko (guh-lock-tuh-BORE-ee-ko). The baklava is
also first-rate -- packed with finely chopped nuts, well-seasoned and not too
goopy -- but there's an even better version at a hole-in-the-wall on 31st
Avenue: Thessalikon Pastry Shop, a caterer that sells its wares, often
grudgingly, by the tray.

Let us not romanticize the Greek restaurants of Astoria. For some reason, many a
food writer, charmed by the neighborhood, has gone weak in the knees over
steam-table moussaka, rubbery fried calamari and greasy lamb shanks. Greek
cuisine does not, even at its best, ascend to great heights. For a time, Elias
Corner on 31st Street enjoyed a cult reputation that utterly mystified me. It is
an estiatorio, a type of restaurant in which customers approach a fish counter,
point to their choice and pay by the pound. The fish is painted with some olive
oil, strewn with a few herbs and grilled. That's it.

For some reason, this formula besotted New York for several years, even though
rank amateurs could produce the same results at home. I much prefer the
five-year-old Agnanti, at the upper end of the neighborhood near Astoria Park,
which offers unusual regional dishes like ntaka, a Cretan bread salad, and
mustard-dipped shrimp kataifi.

Astoria without Greeks is unthinkable. It is the home not only of Socrates
Sculpture Park but also of Socrates Realty and Athena's nail salon. But in my
end of the neighborhood, near the 36th Avenue el stop, the ethnic swirl has
brought Bangladeshis, Colombians, Brazilians and Mexicans.

On summer nights, unpredictably, a Bangladeshi vegetable vendor occasionally
turns up, his cart heaped high with Asian vegetables sold by no one else. Asian
sari shops, sweet shops and grocery stores now line 36th Avenue, along with a
video store that brightens the street with its showings of Bollywood musicals on
a flat-screen television. On Broadway, one stop north on the N Line, Mexican
taquerias flank the off-track betting parlor.

At the far end of the neighborhood, immigrants from Egypt and North Africa have
remade a desolate stretch of Steinway Street into a lively boulevard lined with
restaurants, hookah cafes and bakeries.

So much for home base. Queens is vast. Over the decades, my explorer's compass
has pointed in wildly different directions. For a while, a Gujarati restaurant
in Elmhurst had my full attention, until it burned down. Ping's and Joe's
Shanghai in Elmhurst also enjoyed my favor. In Woodside, La Flor Bakery and Cafe
sells sublime $4 fruit tarts that require two diners to finish them off. My
thoughts often turn to them in idle hours.

But Flushing is now my north star. Over the years, an area once in sorry decline
has evolved into a pulsating Chinese and Korean neighborhood and a food-lover's
paradise. This is not new news, but it took me a while to catch up. My culinary
life has been transformed by the Gold City Supermarket on Kissena Boulevard, a
huge, high-energy store, half of it devoted to a dazzling selection of imported
sauces, condiments and dried and frozen foods, the other half to produce and
meat departments that boggle the mind.

It pays to do some homework before visiting. Although prices are posted, all
signs are in Chinese characters. Bruce Cost's classic ''Asian Ingredients''
(Morrow Cookbooks) or Huang Su-Huei's well-illustrated ''Chinese Cuisine''
(Wei-Chuan) can serve as guides to the aisles stacked with exotic barbecue
sauces, light and dark Chinese soy sauces and small treasures like pickled
mustard cabbage.

The fish counter is dramatic. I once saw an eel make a break for freedom,
slithering across the produce-department floor. Customers like to pick out a
live fish, which an impassive fishmonger holds aloft, flopping in a net. A quick
whack from a wooden mallet, and the performance is over.

The post-shopping reward is just a few doors away, at the Fay Da Bakery. This is
a chain with two outlets in Chinatown and six others scattered across the city.
Patrons take a tray, grab a pair of tongs and load up on steamed and fried buns,
both savory and sweet. Some are both at once, like a chewy, sticky-rice bun that
looks like a honey-dip doughnut outside but inside contains pork bits swimming
in a rich gravy.

Then it's on to downtown Flushing and the J&L Mall. Flushing abounds in monster
Chinese restaurants that do a bonanza dim-sum business. But hidden in nooks and
corners are tiny stands that offer outstanding bargains. My consigliere in these
matters is Harley Spiller, a relentless Chinese-food detective who occasionally
sends out field reports to his friends. The ''mall'' is nothing more than a
corridor on Main Street lined by rows of snack stands and lunch counters. Little
or no English is spoken, so non-Chinese customers adapt. Finger pointing and
basic business terms like ''two'' or ''three'' work fine. The stall owners, in
my experience, are friendly, accommodating and intrigued to see a non-Chinese
customer.

Halfway down the aisle, on the left, a bun stall turns out a variety of large
steamed and baked buns at a dollar or two apiece. The best is a crepelike
envelope of soft dough encasing chopped chives, egg and glass noodles. A close
cousin, which came hot from the oven on my most recent visit, was a big ball of
pillowy steamed bread dough filled with egg, glass noodle, chopped Chinese leeks
and tiny dried shrimp.

At the entrance of the mall, to the right, the buns come three for a dollar. The
staple items are small steamed buns with beef or pork filling, but you can also
find sweet fried doughnuts accented with scallion, or sticky rice snacks with a
meat and mushroom center. These are steamed in a bamboo leaf and then tied up in
a neat package.

At the back of the mall, spicy Szechuan vegetable dishes are sold from a counter
by weight. There are about a dozen choices. I picked four at random on my last
visit: long strands of pickled seaweed; cabbage and peppercorns in a fragrant,
winey pickling broth; cubes of amber, firm tofu with peanuts and sesame seed;
and pickled long beans, chopped into tiny slices and tossed with red-pepper
flakes.

Flushing may occupy me for a while. There's another mall just a couple of blocks
down Main Street, the Golden Shopping Mall, that merits investigation. And even
more seductive is the strangely named Waterfront International Enterprises, a
restaurant specializing in the cuisine of northeastern China. It's cold-weather
food, heavily reliant on hearty soups and stews. Grilled whole jellyfish,
evidently, is the traditional way to start the meal. Count me in.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Gold City Supermarket on Kissena Boulevard, Flushing, a
huge Asian produce store. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. E37)
Above left and center, the J&L Mall in Flushing, where snack stands turn out
steamed and baked buns. Titan Foods, right, a Greek supermarket in Astoria, the
place for olives.
 La Flor Bakery and Cafe on Roosevelt Avenue in Woodside sells sublime fruit
tarts that require two diners to finish them off. (Photographs by Chang W.
Lee/The New York Times)(pg. E44)Map of Queens highlighting the following:Titan
FoodsOmonia CafeThessalikon Pastry ShopAstoria Meat ProductsElias Corner(pg.
E44)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study of Immigrants Links Lighter Skin And Higher Income

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Jan. 27


Light-skinned immigrants in the United States make more money on average than
those with darker complexions, and the chief reason appears to be
discrimination, a researcher says.

The scholar, Joni Hersch, a professor of law and economics at Vanderbilt
University, looked at a government survey of 2,084 legal immigrants to the
United States from around the world and found that those with the lightest skin
earned an average of 8 percent to 15 percent more than similar immigrants with
much darker skin.

''On average,'' Dr. Hersch said, ''being one shade lighter has about the same
effect as having an additional year of education.''

The study also found that taller immigrants earned more than shorter ones, with
an extra inch of height associated with a 1 percent increase in income.

Other researchers said the findings were consistent with other studies on color
and pointed to a skin-tone prejudice that went beyond race.

Dr. Hersch took into consideration other factors that could affect wages, like
English-language proficiency, education, occupation, race or country of origin,
and found that skin tone still seemed to make a difference in earnings. That
meant that if two similar immigrants from Bangladesh, for example, came to the
United States at the same time, with the same occupation and ability to speak
English, the lighter-skinned one would make more money on average.

''I thought that once we controlled for race and nationality, I expected the
difference to go away,'' Dr. Hersch said, ''but even with people from the same
country, the same race, skin color really matters.''

Although many cultures show a bias toward lighter skin, she said her analysis
showed that the skin-color advantage was not based on preferential treatment for
light-skinned people in their country of origin. The bias, she said, occurs in
the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Cleric's Journey Leads to a Suburban Frontier

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; AN IMAM IN AMERICA: A Calling
Beyond Brooklyn; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2835 words

DATELINE: MIDDLETOWN, N.J.


Sheik Reda Shata pushed into Costco behind an empty cart. He wore a black
leather jacket over his long, rustling robe, a pocket Koran tucked inside.

The imam, a 38-year-old Egyptian, seemed not to notice the stares from other
shoppers. He was hunting for a bargain, and soon found it in the beverage aisle,
where a 32-can pack of Coca-Cola sold for $8.29. For Mr. Shata, this was a
satisfying Islamic experience.

''The Prophet said, 'Whoever is frugal will never suffer financially,' '' said
the imam, who shops weekly at the local store and admits to praying for its
owners. He smiled. ''These are the people who will go to heaven.''

Seven months have passed since Mr. Shata moved to this New Jersey suburb to lead
a mosque of prosperous, settled immigrants. It is a world away from Bay Ridge,
Brooklyn, where he toiled for almost four years, serving hundreds of struggling
Muslims for whom America was still new.

His transition is a familiar one for foreign-born imams in the United States,
who often start out in city mosques before moving to more serene settings.

For Mr. Shata, Middletown promised comfort after years of hardship. He left
behind a tiny apartment for a house with green shutters set amid maple trees and
sweeping lawns. He got a raise. He learned to drive.

But the suburbs have brought challenges that Mr. Shata never imagined. His
congregation in Brooklyn may have been on the margins of American society, but
it was deeply rooted in Islam. Muslims in Middletown were generally more
assimilated but less connected to their mosque.

To be a successful suburban imam, he found, meant persuading doctors and lawyers
not to rush from prayers to beat traffic. It meant connecting with teenagers who
drove new cars, and who peppered their Arabic with ''like'' and ''yeah.'' It
meant helping his daughter cope with mockery at school, in a predominantly white
town that lost dozens of people on Sept. 11.

Mr. Shata knew from his years in Brooklyn that the job demanded more than
preaching and leading prayers, the things for which he was trained in Egypt. In
America, he helped to arrange marriages. He mediated between the F.B.I. and his
people. He set up a makeshift Islamic court to resolve disputes among hot dog
vendors.

Last summer, as he prepared to join a new community where the median income is
roughly $86,000, he reminded himself that Islam has no quarrel with wealth -- as
long as the wealthy are pious. Still, he was stunned when a man at the mosque
bought his daughter a new car, only for her to request a different model.

''Islam says to a Muslim you can own the world if you want, but don't get
attached to it,'' said Mr. Shata, speaking Arabic through a translator. ''Put
the world in your hands, not your heart.''

The open spaces of Monmouth County appealed to the imam after years in a crowded
city. But with space comes distance. It hardly surprised Mr. Shata that prayer
attendance was thin; many congregants live more than 20 miles away.

In a land of Little League and shopping malls, signs of Muslim identity are few.
At first glance, Mr. Shata's new mosque could pass for an elegant office
building. It has no minaret and a barely visible dome.

Girls in head scarves are scarce at the local public schools. Some cover their
heads with hooded sweatshirts.

Compared with his congregants, the imam sometimes looks like an apparition from
another century. In his silk hat and robe, he preaches to men in suits or blue
jeans, cellphones clasped to their belts.

But Mr. Shata believes this group is vital to Islam's future in the West. The
religion's survival, he said, depends not only on its ability to flourish in the
immigrant footholds of America, but in its most settled corners.

''We are in this country, and we must learn to live with its people,'' Mr. Shata
said. ''We have to absorb them and they have to absorb us.''

Leaving Brooklyn

  One sunny afternoon in September, the mosque's parking lot was empty but for a
red 1997 Dodge Neon. It circled around and around, with Mr. Shata at the wheel.
He was practicing for his driving test.

''Now we're at the stop sign, and we must stop out of respect,'' he said,
slamming on the brakes. The car halted violently. Then he stomped his sandaled
foot on the gas, and the car lurched ahead.

Mr. Shata had never driven a car until he moved to Middletown. As a boy, he
became frightened of driving after a tractor killed a man in his Egyptian
farming village. Since moving to the United States in 2002, he had managed
without a car. But in the suburbs he had no choice.

Middletown is only 43 miles southwest of the city, but to Mr. Shata, it seemed
farther.

In Brooklyn, his daily walk to the mosque, Masjid Moussab, caused a commotion,
with cabdrivers honking and shopkeepers waving. In Middletown, where Mr. Shata
now lives next to the mosque, he sees deer and rabbits on his way to the dawn
prayer.

But Brooklyn had a way of following him. Fathers in Bay Ridge still sought the
imam's help in finding suitable husbands for their daughters. Unhappy wives
called for the imam's marital advice.

Every Friday, a dozen of Mr. Shata's former Brooklyn congregants began appearing
in Middletown to hear his weekly sermon.

''Maybe he's here in body, but his soul is there,'' said Amgad Abdou, an
Egyptian driver who came every week, his limousine full. ''He's like the Statue
of Liberty, part of the skyline. He's part of Bay Ridge.''

Mr. Shata missed the city at times. But his relationship with Muslims in
Brooklyn had changed after a series of articles about him appeared in The New
York Times last March.

At first, he found himself a minor celebrity. The articles were reprinted in
Arabic-language newspapers, both in the United States and the Middle East.
Hundreds of strangers reached out to him, seeking advice.

The imam's ''little black book'' -- a roster of Muslims in search of spouses --
quickly lengthened, by a third, to 820 phone numbers and names.

But the articles also stirred a controversy Mr. Shata never expected. Many
Muslims were shocked to read that the imam thought oral sex was permissible for
married couples (even though respected Islamic scholars in the Middle East
concurred with his opinion, he said). Others objected to his view that Muslims
could sell liquor or pork if they could find no other work.

One critique of Mr. Shata on a jihadist Web site in England singled out his
hometown, Kafr al Battikh, which is known for its watermelons. ''Oh, Allah,'' it
read, ''preserve Islam and Muslims from the evil people of watermelons.''

In Bay Ridge, the articles prompted a fistfight outside a Dunkin' Donuts. Fliers
warned in Arabic that the imam was ''a devil.''

''He just wanted to please the West,'' said Hesham Elashry, a local Egyptian
tailor. ''No one can change Islam to make people happy.''

After weeks of defending himself, Mr. Shata felt worn down.

Other mosques had long tried to lure him away. As word of his troubles spread,
recruiters stepped forward.

''He was tied to his people,'' said Mohammed Mosaad, who sits on the board of
the mosque in Middletown.

Like many suburban mosques, Masjid Al-Aman, which means ''mosque of peace,''
began in the 1980s with a group of families who met privately to pray.
Eventually, they bought a six-acre property on Red Hill Road and raised $1.7
million to build their mosque, which was completed in 2003.

Leaders of the mosque, which has a largely Egyptian congregation, called the
imam for months. They offered to renovate a house on the property, with a new
kitchen and a custom-made library.

Mr. Shata prayed for a sign from God. One morning at dawn, the imam said, he
heard a voice telling him that the mosque in Middletown ''is peace.''

He resigned that day.

Planting New Roots

  One evening in July, shortly before Mr. Shata moved to the suburbs, he paid
the mosque in Middletown a visit.

Crickets chirped. The grass whispered. The stars blinked from above.

The imam circled the mosque, accompanied by three friends. He paused to look at
the trees, which seemed to sparkle.

Mr. Shata turned to the men and asked if the forest might have jinn, the Arabic
word for spirits.

''No,'' one of the men replied. ''The bugs light up here.''

It was one of many things that impressed Mr. Shata about his new environment. He
loved to sit on his front porch and write his Friday sermons. The rain, he said,
was ''like a symphony of music.''

In Brooklyn, the imam's family rarely left their apartment. His 8-year-old
daughter, Rawda, is epileptic and used to suffer frequent seizures. Now the four
children run freely on the grass. Rawda has not had a seizure for months, ever
since doctors changed her medication.

The imam's wife, Omyma, looked up at the sky one September afternoon.

''Smell! Smell!'' she said, inhaling deeply. ''Pure oxygen. Pure.''

But if Mr. Shata's family life had improved, his new mosque needed work.

In Bay Ridge, congregants lingered after prayers, exchanging kisses and hugs. In
Middletown, an air of anonymity hung over the mosque.

''We needed someone to bring us together,'' said one member, Omar Mostafa, 42.

Mr. Shata began by memorizing the names of his roughly 600 congregants and
tracking their attendance. (The same prodigious memory had enabled him to
memorize the Koran by the age of 8.)

A Jordanian-born cardiologist, Raed Jitan, missed the Friday prayer soon after
he was introduced to the new imam. When the doctor reappeared at the mosque, he
was stunned to hear Mr. Shata call out, ''Raed, where have you been?''

It became common to hear the imam interrupt himself, midsermon, with admonitions
like, ''Ahmed, don't fall asleep on me.''

One Friday, Mr. Shata ordered the congregants to stand up and exchange
compliments. Another day, he told them they could not leave before shaking
hands.

By the early fall, Masjid Al-Aman was a different place. Attendance at daily
prayers had quadrupled. The imam's evening lectures were packed.

''The seeds have taken root very fast,'' Mr. Shata said.

He was relieved that many of his new congregants seemed modern-minded. But he is
still adjusting to the fact that, at dinner parties, men and women often eat
together. (Such engagements do not violate Islamic law, Mr. Shata said, but he
and his wife prefer more traditional gatherings where men and women sit in
separate rooms and have their own entrances.)

Mr. Shata uses Islamic contracts in Middletown, as he had in Brooklyn, to help
settle disputes between married couples. But the money involved sometimes makes
him gasp. In Brooklyn, a man had agreed to pay his wife $10 every time he
insulted her. In Middletown, a similar contract brought $1,000 per insult.

Wealth became a frequent theme in his sermons.

''The true value of a person is not in his clothing, car or bank account, but in
his account with Allah,'' he said in one sermon.

At times, Mr. Shata could not help but think of his own financial status. He
told himself that it did not matter that his house was modest compared with the
''palaces'' of some congregants, or that his used Dodge stood out among their
Lexuses and BMWs.

''I am very satisfied with what God has given me,'' he said one afternoon.

He did not know then that his 12-year-old daughter, Esteshhad, wanted to ask him
for a cellphone.

A Generation to Guide

  On Sunday mornings, the main worship area of the mosque -- a place normally
reserved for men -- becomes a teenage oasis.

Girls in head scarves sit to one side, and boys in sweatshirts and varsity
jackets to the other. Their cellphones beep with text messages as the imam
stands before them.

''Who has a question today?'' he asked one recent Sunday.

A curly-haired boy raised his hand. ''According to the Prophet, at what age
should a young man get married?'' he asked.

Mr. Shata launched into a careful lecture about how modern life is different
from the Prophet's time, when boys married at 16. Islam, he said, dictates no
specific age.

''Can a man marry more than one wife?'' another boy asked.

''Why are the questions about marriage today?'' the imam replied. ''What's going
on?''

The room was silent. He wiped his glasses, trying to buy time.

''If you are able to marry one,'' he finally said, ''don't think about marrying
another one.''

Another hand shot up, that of a 16-year-old girl. ''What are the specific
circumstances that allow a man to marry a second wife?'' the girl, Sara
Abdelmottlib, asked.

Once again, the imam was cornered. Back in Egypt, young Muslims were reticent in
the presence of sheiks. But in America, Mr. Shata noticed, children are taught
to ask many questions.

Mr. Shata had no doubt about the answer: According to Islamic law, a man is
allowed up to four wives. But the imam also believed that such arrangements
never worked, and that discussing them was unhelpful in the United States.

He stared at the girls.

''There is no woman out there who agrees to her husband marrying a second wife,
even if she cannot bear children,'' he said.

Then he turned to the boys. ''A man who is not satisfied with one wife will
never be satisfied with four,'' he said.

Miss Abdelmottlib looked over at the boys, her chin raised in triumph.

Mr. Shata often feels out of place among his youngest congregants. They seem so
different from him -- the way they dress, the way they speak, even the way they
think. But he considers no part of his job more important.

''The tree of faith in their hearts has to be constantly watered before it dries
up,'' he said.

It seemed to Mr. Shata that young Muslims in the suburbs had no guide to help
them balance Islamic virtues with adolescent urges, the culture of their parents
with the pressures of their peers.

Some men at the mosque complained that their sons refused to kiss their hands in
a show of respect. Mr. Shata sided with the boys: This tradition was cultural,
he said, not Islamic.

Other parents forbade their daughters from joining swim teams at school, arguing
that Islamic law does not allow women to reveal their bodies in public. The imam
suggested a compromise: they could swim in bodysuits, with only females present.

Still, it was one thing for Mr. Shata to mediate these problems at the mosque,
and another to face them at home.

The Home Front

  One afternoon this month, a yellow school bus with mechanical problems pulled
into the mosque's parking lot.

The imam had just finished the afternoon prayer and was leaving the mosque.
Eagerly, he walked up to the bus, his long robe flapping. He wondered if his
daughter Esteshhad might be onboard.

As he drew closer, he saw the children pointing at him and laughing. He
struggled, in English, to offer the driver help, but she politely declined. He
searched for his daughter. It was not her bus. Relieved, he walked away.

For Esteshhad, life had been hard enough, he thought. After attending an Islamic
school in Brooklyn, she is now one of only two girls who wear head scarves at
her public middle school. She sits alone at the front of her bus. In the
cafeteria, she eats by herself.

''They keep thinking I'm weird,'' she said. ''I feel weird, too.''

She hears about sleepovers and trips to the mall, but she has yet to experience
these things. Her mother cannot drive, and Mr. Shata is reluctant to chauffeur
his children until he feels safer in the car.

Outside school, Esteshhad's only other contact with her peers comes at the
mosque. But even there -- where some girls carry designer bags -- she often
feels left out.

One night this month, she sat slouched on the edge of her bed. If only she had a
cellphone or an iPod, she said, she might have friends.

''I have friends,'' her 7-year-old sister, Rahma, piped up.

''You don't wear a hijab,'' Esteshhad shot back.

Recently, her mother noticed that Esteshhad had forgotten parts of the Koran.
She was also becoming more assertive.

A sign outside her room read, ''Please knock before entering!'' and then, in
smaller letters, ''I'm angry.''

Esteshhad's mother has thought of enrolling her again in an Islamic school, but
Mr. Shata is reluctant. He wants to give public school a chance. Still, it pains
him to see Esteshhad so alone.

When asked how he would respond if Esteshhad stopped wearing a head scarf, the
imam thought for a moment. Such a scenario, for him, would have been unthinkable
in Egypt.

''I would try to convince her and I would find 1,001 ways to her heart,'' he
said. ''I hate aggression. The Prophet, peace be upon him, said, 'Teach, don't
humiliate.' ''

Teaching, for the imam, also means learning. He will learn as he goes, he said,
with Esteshhad at school, with the teenagers at his mosque.

It is a path he began in Brooklyn. To live an Islamic life in America, he said,
requires a curious mind and a strong heart.

Mr. Shata tries to bring both to his youth group every week.

Only 11 young Muslims came to the first meeting in October. Now, the imam looks
out at a room full of faces.

''Sixty and counting,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A CRUCIAL MISSION -- Little is more important to Mr. Shata than
cultivating the faith of Muslim youth and helping them bridge traditional and
modern ways. Above, Mr. Shata with a teenager, Omar Mosad, during a youth class
another day, boys played football behind the mosque.
ON THE ROAD -- Moving has brought challenges like driving.
A QUIET PLACE CALLED HOME -- Mr. Shata and his family enjoy Middletown's
tranquillity, a sharp contrast to their old Brooklyn neighborhood. Outside their
new home, which is next to the mosque, he lingered with his young son, Mohammed,
and his daughters Esteshhad, left, and Rahma. Below, Mr. Shata prayed at a
mosque member's home. (Photo by Photographs by JAMES ESTRIN/The New York
Times)(pg. 26)
 Sheik Reda Shata and his wife, Omyma, find life in Middletown, N.J., full of
unexpected pleasures, like shopping at the nearby Costco. (Photo by JAMES
ESTRIN/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Are Refugees. Who Are We?

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1025 words



To the Editor:

Thank you for ''Outcasts United: On a Small Town's Soccer Fields, Refugees Find
Hostility and Hope'' (front page, Jan. 21). By showing your readers people at
their generous and courageous best -- rather than always leading with the depths
to which we have allowed ourselves to sink -- you have given us something to
hopeful to aspire to.

Modeling a world we would like to see is at least as important as chastising us
with the pitiful one we have created. Please make it a habit.

Tim House
Upton, Mass., Jan. 21, 2007

To the Editor:

Kudos to Coach Luma Mufleh of the Fugees for her dedication to the boys on her
team and their families -- and the principles at stake. It takes a Jordanian
immigrant to remind us what our democracy is supposed to be about: equality and
opportunity for all.

I taught in Liberia for nine years before the civil war, and I've supported
Liberian refugees who arrived in this country traumatized by their experiences.
The self-esteem, inclusiveness, camaraderie and positive values being instilled
in this international group of legal immigrants cannot be overestimated.

Ironically, those hurling epithets and trying to keep Mohammed Mohammed and his
brothers from practicing will be in the stands waving Old Glory and thumping
their chests in 10 years when they're scoring goals for our national team!

Robert J. Schwarz
New York, Jan. 23, 2007

To the Editor:

Clarkston, Ga., epitomizes the true heart of America in its diversity. It would
make our founding fathers proud. So it is very disappointing to read of the
crass bias and prejudice of its mayor and some of its citizens. Clarkston
deserves a better mayor, one with an open mind and welcoming, generous
disposition. One who knows and appreciates the ''melting pot'' history of our
country.

Julia Humphreys
Daly City, Calif., Jan. 21, 2007

To the Editor:

While reading your article, I did not know whether to smile or cry. My emotions
ran the full spectrum from hope to anger, from enthusiasm to hopelessness. How
can a mayor or a community in the United States turn their back on this group of
kids?

You quote the town's mayor, Lee Swaney, as saying about the town park, ''There
will be nothing but baseball and football down there as long as I am mayor.''

I think the only appropriate response to the people of Clarkston, Ga.,
particularly Mr. Swaney, is to put together a group of people and go to the
park, to play -- what else? -- the American version of football.

Maybe take it a step further, and encourage the brave young men of the Fugees to
stand on the sidelines while throwing a baseball back and forth.

David Strasser
New York, Jan. 21, 2007

To the Editor:

The story of the Clarkston, Ga., refugee children's soccer team is a compelling
one, but it could have been told without unfairly demonizing my hometown and its
leaders.

Rather than examining the tremendous fiscal and social challenges heaped upon
Clarkston by the refugee influx, you take the easy way out by falling back on
the tired old Southern cracker stereotype.

Yes, there are those who disdain the refugees -- and most of those people have
long ago fled to the exurbs. Yes, there are tensions between the remaining ''old
timers'' and the refugee agencies, but that is a two-way street, with prejudices
and misunderstandings on both sides.

Mayor Lee Swaney, Emanuel Ransom and many other longtime residents, both white
and black, have worked tirelessly to improve the city for the benefit of all.
The learning curve has been steep, and not every decision, action or statement
has been ideal, but it has been a good-faith effort.

Meanwhile, many American-born professionals like me have moved to the city by
choice, attracted by the small-town atmosphere, the mind-boggling diversity and
the absence of pseudo-sophisticated gentrification.

Susan M. Garrett
Clarkston, Ga., Jan. 24, 2007

To the Editor:

Coach Luma Mufleh is an inspiration and a treasure. How quickly a community that
used to be mostly white forgets why most of their relatives came to this country
-- seeking safety, opportunity and a chance to flourish.

The movement of people that has created the current rich diversity in Clarkston,
Ga., today is just what emboldens me to believe that America may eventually join
the global community rather than acting as a unilateral, self-interested country
willing to check its ethics at the door to make the next arms deal with a regime
we'll later decide we hate.

It's time for Clarkston, and America as a whole, to embrace the richness the
world has to share with us, and for communities and governments at every level
of this country to support our children with the resources they need to succeed
in our neighborhoods and schools. This generation is our future.

Keep fighting for the future of our newest Americans, Ms. Mufleh. You are what
is wonderful about America.

Melanie Peterson-Nafziger
St. Paul, Jan. 21, 2007

To the Editor:

Thank you for ''Outcasts United.''

As a pioneering school bringing together child survivors of war and local
children living in or near Clarkston, Ga., we provide a school home for a number
of Coach Luma Mufleh's players.

Some of these students arrived at International Community School so traumatized
and with such extreme behavior problems they could barely function in our
classrooms. One by one, the chance to play soccer with the Fugees has turned
their lives around. Kudos to your reporter for capturing with compelling
accuracy the struggle and opportunity facing Clarkston's refugee children.

William L. Moon
Principal
International Community School
Decatur, Ga., Jan. 23, 2007

To the Editor:

The vivid examples of our nation's strengths and weaknesses described in
''Outcasts United'' are striking: We can be a model for the shrinking earth as a
resourceful melting pot, full of opportunity. We can also be ignorant and
fearful of other cultures.

The role of the world's most popular team sport is no accident: Soccer's free
form and improvisational nature lend themselves to many interpretations; this is
an international language that we are only just beginning to learn.

Rob Schneiderman
New York, Jan. 23, 2007


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stan Fellows)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Assimilating Circumstances

BYLINE: By Dina Strasser.

Dina Strasser writes about education and child development.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Lives; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 748 words


I've taught English as a second language for eight years, and I'm no slouch.
I've taught in Korea and in New York City's Chinatown. I've taken on classrooms
of 50 high-school boys at a time. I wouldn't have guessed that one slim Afghan
girl would represent my most difficult challenge.

Fareeba had survived the first formative years of her life as a refugee in
Pakistan. She eventually immigrated with her family to the States and set foot
in her first real school at age 8, five years ago.

On one hand, when she arrived last year at the middle school where I now teach,
Fareeba was a fairly typical immigrant student. She spoke English well enough to
attend regular classes, including standard academic English, but she still
required supplemental instruction in reading and writing, which I provided in
and out of a classroom setting.

On the other hand, Fareeba had assimilated American culture with startling
speed. She had picked up a sprinkling of hip-hop slang and traded her head scarf
for low-rise jeans and a brass-studded belt. She was academically talented,
preternaturally savvy, very lovely and fiercely stubborn. She also told fibs,
paused languidly before following any direction, interrupted.

''Listen here, listen here,'' she would announce in my class, tossing her pencil
down like a gauntlet. ''Fareeba is speaking.''

She would push; I would push back gently. I hoped that in some small way I could
help bring out the potential behind all her bravado. And as the days lengthened
into months, her glowering gave way. She would throw a small orange on my desk,
or arrive randomly during a study hall to show me henna designs on her hands.
She also began bringing nearly every assignment she received in other classes
straight to me.

''Fareeba, three sentences and a row of hearts six lines down is not a
paragraph,'' I would say, smiling in spite of myself.

''Oh, snap. My bad.'' She grinned back.

She troubled me. Yet her untapped abilities thrilled me. I dreamed of Fareeba's
future self, imagining her channeling energetic precocity into meaningful work.
A teacher, maybe. A doctor?

Then one day Fareeba's regular English teacher pulled me aside. There was
something I should know: Fareeba had begun writing an original poem in class for
an assignment, and for a second-language student, it wasn't bad: an elegy. The
stanzas were for her father, who died of a heart attack in Pakistan. But the
next day, her teacher said, instead of turning in the poem she started, she
submitted Thomas Gray's ''Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard.''

I imagined Fareeba typing ''elegy'' into an online search engine -- for surely
that was what happened. I tried to imagine what she might have been feeling: Was
she angry? Giggling? Wiping away tears? Was there some kind of misunderstanding?
Newcomers to English can bring very different cultural expectations to
schoolwork. Did she even know what she had done?

But later I heard Fareeba bragging about her exploits to her peers in a way that
made their deliberate nature unmistakable.

''Oh, my God,'' she said joyfully. ''I'm in so much trouble.''

In the office the punishment was administered: a day of solitary study. It was a
stiff penalty, brought on by Fareeba's apparent remorselessness. Her mother, who
was there in full Muslim hijab, wept. Fareeba's T-shirt read, ''Sweet Baby.''

Maybe Fareeba wanted something like this to happen. Maybe she wanted to let the
world know that, compared to the poverty and hardship she had seen, copying
poetry off the Internet meant nothing. Maybe her own poem was just too painful
to let anyone see. There were a hundred reasons, and I supplied some of them to
the vice principal when he asked me for my ''take on this.'' But all I knew was
a kind of wounded pride. I couldn't understand why Fareeba hadn't come to me
with her poem. Had I only imagined the progress we'd made?

On the day of our first E.S.L. class after the incident, Fareeba walked in as if
nothing had happened. Afterward she picked up her books and started to leave. I
reached out and stopped her. She pinned me with her eyes, black with defiance
and pride.

It wasn't the poem I cared about anymore. I was concerned about other, less
tangible things. I wanted to tell her how beautiful she was; how she was like an
elegy. But I didn't.

''Why did you do this, Fareeba?'' I asked at last. ''Why didn't you let me help
you?''

She stared out the window of my classroom. She closed her eyes. She did not
answer.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Bob Hambly)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Iraqi Family In Custody

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 77 words


An Iraqi family was caught within miles of the Rio Grande after crossing the
border illegally, a Customs and Border Protection spokesman said. The family of
five was caught about 7:45 p.m. Saturday near U.S. 281 in Pharr, said the
spokesman, Oscar Saldana. Background checks showed no ties to terrorism, he
said, and the family was being processed for deportation. ''They were run
through our databases,'' Mr. Saldana said. ''No derogatory information came
back.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Immigrant Dream: Arepas as Common as Bagels

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Adam B. Ellick contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1711 words


Manuel A. Miranda was 8 when his family immigrated to New York from Bogota. His
parents, who had been lawyers, turned to selling home-cooked food from the trunk
of their car. Manuel pitched in after school, grinding corn by hand for
traditional Colombian flatbreads called arepas.

Today Mr. Miranda, 32, runs a family business with 16 employees, producing 10
million arepas a year in the Maspeth section of Queens. But the burst of
Colombian immigration to the city has slowed; arepas customers are spreading
through the suburbs, and competition for them is fierce. Now, he says, his eye
is on a vast, untapped market: the rest of the country.

In the long run, like bagels, ''you're going to have arepas in every store,''
predicted Mr. Miranda, whose innovations include a ''toaster-friendly'' version
(square instead of round), and an experimental Web site that offers online sales
nationwide. ''But I don't have the connections. I don't know the people who can
advise how to take us to the next level.''

As the flow of immigrants to suburban and small-town America outpaces the growth
of bustling ethnic centers in New York, many foreign-born entrepreneurs like the
Mirandas are facing an unfamiliar crossroads. In the city, rising rents and
density hamper growth, while swelling ethnic enclaves in the suburbs generate
competitors. Yet in other places, opportunity beckons as never before, as
immigrants expand the tastes of mainstream America.

Whether these businesses exploit the new chances to break out or succumb to the
new perils, the city's economy will feel the effects.

''Immigrants have been the entrepreneurial spark plugs of cities from New York
to Los Angeles,'' said Jonathan Bowles, the director of the Center for an Urban
Future, a private, nonprofit research organization that has studied the dynamics
of immigrant businesses that turned decaying neighborhoods into vibrant
commercial hubs in recent decades. ''These are precious and important economic
generators for New York City, and there's a risk that we might lose them over
the next decade.''

A report to be issued by the center today highlights both the potential and the
challenge for cities full of immigrant entrepreneurs, who often face language
barriers, difficulties getting credit, and problems connecting with mainstream
agencies that help businesses grow. The report identifies a generation of
immigrant-founded enterprises poised to break into the big time -- or already
there, like the Lams Group, one of the city's most aggressive hotel developers,
or Delgado Travel, which reaps roughly $1 billion in annual revenues.

In Los Angeles, at least 22 of the 100 fastest-growing companies in 2005 were
created by first-generation immigrants. In Houston, a telecommunications company
started by a Pakistani man topped the 2006 list of the city's most successful
small businesses.

But even in those cities and New York, where immigrant-friendly mayors have
promoted programs to help small business, the report contends that immigrant
entrepreneurs have been overlooked in long-term strategies for economic
development.

Some are doing just fine anyway. Lowell Hawthorne, the Jamaican-born chief
executive of Golden Krust Caribbean Bakery, has parlayed a single bakery, opened
in the Bronx in 1989, into more than 100 franchise restaurants nationwide. The
latest batch opened in Atlanta, where Jamaican-style specialties, supplied from
a Bronx plant with 130 employees, draw on a mix of West Indian immigration and
crossover appeal.

Other companies, like Rajbhog Foods, which started as a mom-and-pop Indian
sweets shop in Jackson Heights, Queens, seem to be on the edge of a similar
breakthrough, even as they struggle with rising costs and shifting immigration
patterns.

''Two steps forward and then back one step,'' said Sachin Mody, the chief
executive and son of the founders. ''That is the hardest part, to keep hurdling
and keep evolving.''

Mr. Mody said the company had about 70 employees and three plants and sold its
vegetarian products to stores in 41 states and Canada. Its catering operation
handles Indian weddings and conventions for as many as 10,000. But six years
ago, in recognition of a changing market, it began opening franchise stores in
places like Jersey City and Hicksville, on Long Island, where Indians have
settled in large numbers.

In Jackson Heights, where South Asians from around the region have long come to
shop for ethnic food and the latest in saris, bangles and Bollywood DVDs,
business in Rajbhog's gleaming flagship store is down 30 to 40 percent, said the
owner, Nirval Shah, an Indian-born nephew of the founders.

''We try to reach out to every corner where there is an Indian community, so
they don't have to drive all the way to one location to get what they need,'' he
explained, allowing that such suburban shops were drawing business away from
Little India in Queens, a view echoed by other merchants.

Then he pointed to the company's newest line: frozen Indian entrees, less spiced
for American palates.

In some ways, New York may have a head start on the growing pains of immigrant
businesses. The nation's recent surge of newcomers started earlier in the state
and peaked by the mid-1990s, when immigration was still growing rapidly
elsewhere. About 90,000 new immigrants still arrive each year in New York State,
the vast majority still settling in the city, but that is down from about
168,000 in 1990.

Now, some children of the early influx are trying to build on their parents'
success -- success that itself has increased the cost of doing business, by
driving up rents and creating congestion.

One example is Jay Joshua, a Manhattan company that designs souvenirs and then
has them manufactured in Asia and imported. Jay Chung, who arrived from South
Korea in 1981 as a graduate student in design, started printing his
computer-graphic designs for New York logos and peddling them to local T-shirt
shops. His company is now one of the city's leading suppliers of tourist items,
from New York-loving coffee mugs to taxicab Christmas ornaments.

Mr. Chung's son Joshua, 26, who was 3 when he immigrated, joined the company
after studying business management in college, and recently helped land orders
for a new line of Chicago souvenirs. But frustration mixes with pride when the
Chungs, both American citizens now, discuss the company's growth.

''It's really hard to conduct a business over here as a wholesaler,'' Mr. Chung
said in the company's West 27th Street showroom, chockablock with samples. ''We
get a ticket every 20 minutes, no matter what. We need more convenient places
with less rent, less traffic.''

Thirty years ago their wholesale district was desolate. Now hundreds of
Korean-American importers are there, said Jay Chung, who is a leader of the
local Korean-American business association. They face a blizzard of parking
tickets and high commercial rents -- nearly $20,000 a month for 1,400 square
feet, he said. Many merchants have had to subdivide and sublet their space, he
added, shrinking just when they need to grow.

The association's efforts to find an alternate wholesale site have a checkered
history that underscores the importance of partnerships with the city -- and the
pitfalls. Responding to the city's request for redevelopment proposals for the
College Point section of Queens, more than 50 Korean merchants pooled $1 million
to draw up the winning proposal, Mr. Chung said. At a news conference in 2004,
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said it would create hundreds of new jobs. But the
city backed out eight months later, after protests by older,white Queens
residents and their representatives.

''They said they didn't want the area to become like Flushing, like Chinatown,''
Mr. Chung recalled. ''It was a disaster for us -- not only financially, but our
image.''

Apologetic city development officials offered five other locations, he said in
an account that the city confirmed, and the group is negotiating for a private
project in Jamaica, Queens, that could yield a 13-story center in about four
years. Meanwhile, however, some merchants have already moved to New Jersey.

At a time when cities woo biotechnology firms and sports arenas to jump-start
local economies, the economic potential of immigrant entrepreneurs has remained
largely under the radar, says the Center for an Urban Future. Though there are
no precise figures to measure their economic contributions, the report said,
these businesses create jobs in good times and bad. They offset the cyclical
slumps of more high-profile sectors like finance in New York or energy in
Houston. And they have created ethnic markets that draw shoppers into the city,
balancing the loss of retail trade to the suburbs.

The report credits the Bloomberg administration for small-business initiatives
that have helped some firms, but calls on public, private and nonprofit agencies
to do more to connect immigrant entrepreneurs to the expertise available.

Kara Alaimo, a spokeswoman for the city's Small Business Services Department,
said it now deployed a staff speaking six foreign languages who aided almost
13,000 businesses in the five boroughs last year. ''We are incredibly proud of
our achievements in this arena and look forward to doing even more to provide
resources to this vital community,'' she said.

Immigrant entrepreneurs seem ambivalent about getting more attention from the
city. Some are leery of red tape, though they would welcome, say, a municipal
parking garage. Others cite concrete help they have received from city agencies.

When Mr. Miranda's arepas company, Delicias Andinas, was struggling with high
trash bills two years ago, he said, a city agent in an industry retention
program referred him to a recycler. Now much of the company's garbage -- mostly
corn leftovers -- is sold to hog farms.

''They helped us out to a win-win situation,'' said Mr. Miranda, now an American
citizen who calls himself ''a dyed-in-the-wool New Yorker.''

''For us, it was a big deal. Right now, I don't need money. I need knowledge.''

Map of New York City highlighting the locations of the aforementioned
neighborhoods. (pg. B6)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jay Chung and his son Joshua, from South Korea, own a company
in Manhattan that is one of the city's leading supplier of tourist items. At
left, Manuel A. Miranda and his mother, Mercedes, at their arepas plant in
Queens. He wants to sell the corn flatbreads nationwide. (Photographs by Richard
Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart: ''Immigrant Neighborhoods, Booming
Business''From 1994 to 2004, neighborhoods with predominantly foreign-born
populations saw substantial increases in the number of businesses and jobs,
outpacing growth in the rest of the city, according to a study released
today.NEIGHBORHOOD: FlushingBUSINESSESIN 2004: 3,654INCREASE FROM 1994:
54.6%EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 30,155INCREASE FROM 1994: 12.1%NEIGHBORHOOD: Sunset
ParkBUSINESSESIN 2004: 1,606INCREASE FROM 1994: 47.3EMPLOYMENTIN 2004:
17,286INCREASE FROM 1994: 23.2NEIGHBORHOOD: Sheepshead Bay-Brighton
BeachBUSINESSESIN 2004: 1,900INCREASE FROM 1994: 33.7EMPLOYMENTIN 2004:
11,580INCREASE FROM 1994: 13.3NEIGHBORHOOD: ElmhurstBUSINESSESIN 2004:
1,301INCREASE FROM 1994: 25.1EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 12,768INCREASE FROM 1994:
10.2NEIGHBORHOOD: Washington HeightsBUSINESSESIN 2004: 2,129INCREASE FROM 1994:
17.8EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 25,334INCREASE FROM 1994: 33.6 NEIGHBORHOOD: Jackson
HeightsBUSINESSESIN 2004: 1,468INCREASE FROM 1994: 14.3EMPLOYMENTIN 2004:
6,700INCREASE FROM 1994: 27.9NEIGHBORHOOD: New York CityBUSINESSESIN 2004:
210,783INCREASE FROM 1994: 9.6EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 3.6 millionINCREASE FROM 1994:
6.9(Source by Center for an Urban Future)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Removing a Sunken Treasure, With Millions of Stories

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 463 words


For millions of immigrants, the final leg of the journey to America was a
20-minute ride to Manhattan on the ferry Ellis Island. Now, without much
ceremony or sentiment, federal officials plan to cut up the rusted skeleton of
that historic ship and remove it from New York Harbor.

The National Park Service, which operates Ellis Island as a museum, has asked
the Army Corps of Engineers for permission to dispose of what is left of the
ferry, which sank at its dock during a summer squall in 1968. It was a graceless
end for a workhorse of a great wave of immigration.

In the decade before World War I, the Ellis Island, a 160-foot-long, two-deck
ship that could hold 1,000 passengers, delivered as many as 5,000 new arrivals
daily to New York City. It carried them, after they were cleared to enter the
country, from the island to a dock at Battery Park.

It also shuttled doctors, nurses, guards and other workers out to the island,
said Barry Moreno, a librarian at the immigration museum. One of those commuters
was Fiorello H. La Guardia, an Italian-speaking translator who went on to become
mayor, he said. Another passenger who went against the flow was Emma Goldman,
the anarchist who was deported in 1919.

The ferry was in service from 1904 until ''it was completely abandoned in
1954,'' said Dorothy Hartman, director of education and public programs for Save
Ellis Island Inc., a nonprofit group that has raised money to rehabilitate
buildings on the island.

For nearly 40 years, the remains of the ship have wasted away just a few hundred
feet from where boatloads of tourists hop on and off newer ferries to visit the
museum and trace the paths of their ancestors. At low tide, the corroded hull of
the Ellis Island can still be spotted poking through the surface.

In June, the park service intends to have divers slice the ferry into pieces
that can be hoisted onto barges, park service officials said. ''There's not much
there at all,'' said David L. Conlin, an underwater archaeologist for the park
service. But he added that there were ''a couple of pieces we're very interested
in,'' including the engine and propellers.

The ship's wheel and nameplate are already on display on the third floor of the
museum, Mr. Moreno said.

''It's very sad in a way because the ferry was a very intimate part of the story
of Ellis Island,'' Mr. Moreno said. ''It was the one and only boat ever made
especially for the operation at Ellis Island.''

Removal of the ferry could come just months after the reopening of the Ferry
Building, an Art Deco structure that stands just west of the wreckage. Ms.
Hartman said an exhibit about the hospital facilities and ferry operation on
Ellis Island was nearing completion and scheduled for its first public viewing
in early April.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Part of the Ellis Island, a ferry that carried millions of
immigrants to Manhattan for the first time, can be seen at low tide in New York
Harbor. (Photo by Cary Conover for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: Suit Over Citizenship Delays

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 81 words


Eight immigrants who have waited years for their citizenship applications to
clear tougher background checks since the Sept. 11 attacks say in a lawsuit that
the delays violate their constitutional right of due process. The lawsuit, filed
in Federal District Court in San Francisco, names the F.B.I. and the Department
of Homeland Security among the defendants. It seeks to enforce regulations
requiring the government to act on an application within 120 days of the
applicant's interview.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yonkers Church Closes in Archdiocese Scaleback

BYLINE: By ERIN DUGGAN

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 637 words


The Rev. Jorge Amaro began Mass last Sunday at Our Lady of the Rosary Church in
Yonkers on a somber note.

''This is our own little closure,'' he told parishioners, who had found out only
days earlier that the church would close today after the 11 a.m. Mass.

Congregants were stung last month when the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New
York -- which covers Manhattan, the Bronx, Staten Island, Westchester and six
upstate counties -- included Our Lady of the Rosary on its list of 21 parishes
that will close or merge with larger parishes.

''I don't like it at all, not at all,'' said Minnie Florin, a Yonkers resident
who with her husband, Joseph, has attended the church for 48 years.

Other Westchester parishes set to close are Holy Cross in Tarrytown and St.
Stanislaus in Hastings-on-Hudson; St. Margaret of Hungary in Yonkers is already
closed, most of its parishioners having moved to nearby St. Matthew's. Two
parishes in Orange County and one in Dutchess are scheduled to close; the rest
are in New York City.

The archdiocese attributed the shutdowns to demographics and immigration. Many
Catholics have moved upstate, where several new parishes are scheduled to open.
And churches established to serve immigrants are attracting fewer parishioners
as second-generation children are choosing not to celebrate Mass in their
parents' language.

''When immigrants were coming into these areas, we needed to establish churches
for them,'' said Joseph G. Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese. ''Now, we
need to serve the people where they are now.''

Others involved with the archdiocese said the declining number of priests was
also a factor. There are 405 parishes in the archdiocese, and consolidating
parishes would help relieve the staffing burden.

''I think the big issue is the lack of priests, and I don't see that changing,''
said the Rev. John Vigilanti, the resident priest at the Church of St. John and
St. Mary in Chappaqua.

After losing its parish priest, Our Lady of the Rosary, which has always served
Portuguese immigrants, has had a priest travel from New Jersey to say Mass. The
last Mass today will be in both languages.

''This is part of my family,'' said Dulce Ginja, who moved from Portugal 15
years ago and comes from Mount Vernon every Sunday.

The church was far from empty last week, but it could have held many more. ''It
used to be standing-room-only on Sundays,'' Ms. Florin said.

Mr. Florin added, ''On Christmas Eve, you had to make reservations.''No TV Show
For Jeanine Pirro

''Celebrity Jury,'' the television pilot starring Jeanine F. Pirro, the former
district attorney, was not picked up by a major station when Warner Brothers
offered it last month at an industry convention, according to a New York
television consultant.

The show featured five reality television stars sitting on a jury in
small-claims court. Ms. Pirro joined the show as a replacement for the first
judge, according to the consultant, Bill Carroll, vice president and director of
programming for the Katz Television Group.

Mr. Carroll, who advises local television stations on which syndicated shows to
buy, said he saw the show with its original judge -- and with Christopher Knight
of ''The Brady Bunch'' -- but not with Ms. Pirro; that showing was scrapped
after the convention last month in Las Vegas.

A spokeswoman for Warner Brothers Domestic Television Distribution declined to
discuss shows in development.

Ms. Pirro may still get her day in televised court, Mr. Carroll said.

''It doesn't mean they wouldn't revisit the show, or another iteration of the
show for next year,'' he said. ''Or, in her case, they could look at other
projects potentially for her.''

Ms. Pirro, who lost the race for attorney general last year to Andrew M. Cuomo,
could not be reached for comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: LAST RITES -- Our Lady of the Rosary in Yonkers has its last
Mass today. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Branding by the Slice

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: CONSUMED;
Pg. 28

LENGTH: 775 words


Pizza Patron

When a chain of pizza restaurants with locations in Texas, Arizona, Nevada,
California and Colorado recently announced a promotional stunt that involved
accepting pesos, it sparked controversy, national news coverage and even
threats. It seems predictable that the peso as an acceptable currency in Denver,
say, 700 miles from the Mexican border, would have that effect at a time of
emotional disagreements about immigration in America. But behind this hot-button
debate is something else worth considering: what the success of a
Hispanic-focused pizza chain says about Americanness.

The chain is called Pizza Patron, and it has expanded to 61 locations in just a
few years; same-store sales for the final quarter of 2006 (before the ''Pizza
por pesos'' promotion began) were up an impressive 35 percent over the year
before. Usually restaurants that focus on a particular ethnic group serve food
associated with that demographic, and one of the first things people ask Antonio
Swad, Pizza Patron's founder, is whether there's something particularly (or
maybe stereotypically) Hispanic about his pizza. Does he use habanero peppers
and cilantro? The answer is no. Apart from offering chorizo as a topping, the
pizzas are pretty much what you'd expect from any pizza place.

Swad (who is of Italian and Lebanese descent) was thinking about pizza, not a
Hispanic customer base, when he opened his first restaurant, called Pizza Pizza,
in the Pleasant Grove section of Dallas in 1986. Born and raised in Columbus,
Ohio, Swad moved to Texas that year, and as he recalled recently, ''My
experience with the Hispanic community was quite limited.'' But he knew enough
about running a restaurant to make some adjustments when it turned out that half
his patrons were Spanish speakers -- like changing the name and hiring a
bilingual staff.

That was about it for a while, as Swad developed an unrelated chain called
Wingstop, which he sold in 2003. By then, census figures indicated that
Hispanics had become the largest minority group in the United States, and he was
convinced that Pizza Patron represented ''an opportunity'' for a national
franchise. Working with a marketer, Andrew Gamm (now the company's director of
brand development), Swad overhauled the graphic design of the menu boards, added
contemporary Latino background music and Mexican Saltillo tiles to the stores
and cooked up a new brand icon (el Patron, a mustachioed man in a fedora), all
aimed to communicate the goal of being ''the premier Latino pizza brand,'' as
Gamm puts it. That didn't mean a new kind of pizza, but a new context for pizza.
One that sort of feels . . . Hispanic.

Swad -- who says he expected the peso gimmick to get nothing more than local and
trade coverage -- points out that finding underserved locations is getting
harder as others wise up to this segment of the pizza market. In fact, a
family-style pizza-and-parties chain called Peter Piper, which operates in the
U.S. and Mexico, was recently purchased by ACON Investments, whose managing
partner cited the ''growth and expanding purchasing power of the Hispanic
population.'' Pizza Hut -- ''America's favorite pizza,'' per its recently
revised ad slogan -- has just added online ordering to the Spanish-language Web
site that it started in 2005. Controversy aside, Mary Boltz Chapman, editor in
chief of Chain Leader, a trade magazine, figures the peso promotion was a clever
idea. People who are upset about it would never have patronized the place
anyway, she points out, but the customer base will get the message that matters
most: ''This pizza is for me.''

It's easy to think of products once associated with a particular group that then
caught on with everybody else -- from bagels at Dunkin' Donuts to the prime-time
telenovela adaptation ''Ugly Betty.'' And of course, mainstream brands have long
engaged in ethnic-niche marketing. In the early 20th century, Procter & Gamble
cooked up Crisco pitches meant to reach Jewish consumers, and today Home Depot
offers paint colors with names like Azul Cielito Lindo to appeal to Hispanic
shoppers. But in those cases, the goal was still mass participation: everyone
eating bagels, or everyone shopping at Home Depot. Pizza Patron occupies curious
new territory, aiming not for the masses -- but for a really big niche. And it
turns out that this is a strategy that has more to do with the brand -- the
context -- than it does with the thing that's actually being sold. That's why
Swad changed almost everything except his actual pizza. After all, his
customers' favorite topping is pepperoni. Just as it is for everybody else in
America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Leif Parsons)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 13, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush's Economic Advisers Call for Lower Taxes and Freer Trade

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12


The Bush administration reveled in the economy's continued expansion on Monday,
as the president's advisers stepped up their calls for freer trade, lower taxes
and a continued openness to immigration.

In a buoyant annual report, President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers said
the economy was poised to keep growing at a solid 3 percent a year, that
unemployment would remain below 5 percent and that rising productivity would
allow higher wages without higher inflation.

''I would say right now that we're pretty close to hitting it right on the
head,'' Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said.

The optimistic outlook came at a time when the economy's broad indicators have
been surprisingly favorable. Real wages rose faster than inflation last year and
unemployment remains low, at 4.6 percent. Consumers continue to spend at a
healthy clip and inflation has ebbed, in part because oil prices have declined
sharply from last summer.

But the report set up a clash with Democrats and even some Republicans in
Congress, by putting its emphasis on increasing investment and globalization
rather than on cushioning workers from the disruptions of foreign trade and
corporate overhauls.

In addition to calling for an extension of Mr. Bush's tax cuts, which are set to
expire at the end of 2010, the report floated ideas for further reducing taxes
on corporate dividends, reducing corporate tax rates and letting companies
immediately deduct all their costs for new equipment and infrastructure.

''One of the biggest misconceptions about pro-growth tax policy is that reducing
the statutory corporate tax rate only benefits corporations,'' the report
declared. ''Ultimately, reducing corporate taxes benefits labor through higher
wages and benefits, and capital owners through higher after-tax returns.''

The report praised globalization, brushing aside criticisms from many lawmakers
in Congress about the loss of manufacturing jobs in this country or from many
economists about the nation's rapidly expanding foreign indebtedness.

''Engagement in the global economy through increased trade has contributed to
rising average living standards in the United States,'' it said. Anticipating a
clash over trade with Democratic leaders, it called for Congress to extend the
president's authority to negotiate trade agreements under fast-track procedures,
which allow Congress to approve or reject a trade deal but not to make any
amendments.

It defended the importance of foreign investment in the United States, saying
that ''access to international financial markets tends to lower borrowing costs
and enable a country to increase capital investment without increasing domestic
savings.''

It also defended the freedom of American companies to shift some or all of their
work overseas -- a practice that lawmakers in both parties have attacked as
outsourcing American jobs.

''When U.S. companies expand their employment abroad, they also tend to expand
domestically,'' the report said. It cited studies, which it did not identify,
estimating that each additional dollar of foreign capital spending is associated
with $3.50 of additional domestic capital spending.

Democrats wasted little time criticizing the report.

''We can't just put on a happy face and cross our fingers that wages will grow,
trade deficits will shrink, savings rates will rise and health care costs will
slow,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Joint
Economic Committee. ''We need to shift focus so that working Americans start to
feel as good about our changing economy as those at the very top do.''

Democrats plan to highlight what they see as the economy's dark side later this
week, when the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, delivers his
semiannual report on the economy.

Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee,
has scheduled a follow-up hearing for Friday with economists who argue that the
current economy is much worse than the overall numbers indicate.

In a curious omission, the White House advisers barely mentioned the biggest and
most immediate tax issue confronting both President Bush and Congress: the
alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax that was originally aimed at
millionaires but will engulf 20 million households this year if it is not
changed.

Mr. Bush and Democrats alike want to repeal the A.M.T., a change that would cost
$70 billion in 2007 and more than $1 trillion over the next decade. In 2004, Mr.
Bush hoped to address the issue as part of a sweeping overhaul of the tax code.

At the time, Mr. Lazear served on Mr. Bush's advisory panel on tax changes, but
the panel's recommendations were ignored as soon they were made.

On Monday, Mr. Lazear said the report stayed away from the alternative minimum
tax because it was tangential to his main focus on increasing productivity.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers,
offered a report saying workers would benefit from lower corporate taxes. (Photo
by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

School Officials and Backers of Bilingual Education Are on Different Pages

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN.

E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION;
Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1208 words


When Lafayette High School in Brooklyn was ordered last year to begin shutting
down, condemned as an educational failure, Steve Chung stood ready with a plan
for what might come next. The city Education Department had decreed that
Lafayette's building, in Bensonhurst, would be converted into several new, small
schools, and Mr. Chung envisioned one of them serving the neighborhood's large
population of Chinese immigrants.

Lafayette, after all, had about 650 students, a majority of them Chinese, who
were entitled to bilingual or English as a Second Language classes. A consent
order from a federal court, the outcome of a lawsuit claiming bias against
Asian-Americans at the school, had put pressure on Lafayette to provide those
services.

Several Lafayette administrators and teachers joined Mr. Chung, the president of
a Chinese-American community association, in devising a proposal for a school
specializing in international studies and submitting it to the department. At a
public meeting, residents of the neighborhood lauded it. Meetings with
department officials, he said, went amicably and productively.

Then, a few weeks ago, the department announced its plan for restructuring
Lafayette, which now has about 2,100 students, beginning in September 2007. It
would contain three new schools -- one emphasizing sports management, another
focusing on film and music, and a third offering ''expeditionary learning''
under the aegis of Outward Bound. None will offer bilingual instruction, at
least at the outset.

''This is an absolutely unacceptable choice,'' Mr. Chung said. ''These three
schools have nothing to do with our community. They're forcing the immigrant
students out of their own neighborhood. New York is an immigrant city, but I
think the education policy is not for us.''

Several miles to the east, in East Flatbush, something remarkably similar was
happening at Samuel J. Tilden High School, which serves roughly 2,400 students.
Like Lafayette, Tilden will be dismantled beginning next fall, and replaced by a
collection of small schools. Like Lafayette, Tilden has a large population of
immigrant pupils, about 250, many from Haiti. That critical mass allowed Tilden
to operate a bilingual program in Creole, and its students outperformed peers at
comparable schools on various standardized tests.

The new version of Tilden, however, will have one high school run by Outward
Bound and another, called the It Takes a Village Academy, that says it will
''prepare students for college and meaningful careers while fostering an
appreciation for diverse languages and cultures.''

At best, according to the department's own projections, those schools will take
in a total of 50 English-language learners, as students entitled to bilingual or
E.S.L. classes are officially known, despite the heavy presence of Haitian and
African immigrants in the surrounding neighborhood. Tilden's current immigrant
students will continue in the school until its complete shutdown.

''Education involves trade-offs; it always does,'' said John Lawhead, who has
taught English as a Second Language at Tilden for three years. ''But those
trade-offs, in breaking up the big high schools, should be discussed publicly so
you know what's being lost as well as what's being gained.''

In the trade-off for the closing of Lafayette and Tilden, with the net loss of
about 800 places in bilingual and E.S.L. classes, the Education Department has
announced the opening of only one small school geared to immigrant pupils in the
entire borough. And even now, less than two weeks before eighth graders
throughout the city must submit their applications to high schools, the
department has not revealed the location of that school, the Multicultural High
School. For all any parent or child knows at this point, it could be anywhere
from Bay Ridge to Brownsville.

The recent decisions about Lafayette and Tilden provide the latest flashpoints
for months of friction between the Education Department and immigrant families
and their advocates. It is a deeply paradoxical confrontation, because many
immigrants express support for the trend toward small high schools. They
approvingly cite the department's own statistics, which show that students in
small schools have better promotion and graduation rates than those in large
schools.

Their complaint, though, is that those schools -- with the notable exception of
eight International Network schools that are aimed specifically at immigrant
pupils -- neither seek nor welcome students who need bilingual and E.S.L.
classes. That accusation emerged last fall in a report by the New York
Immigration Coalition and Advocates for Children. It is likely to re-emerge this
Friday, when the City Council's Education Committee holds public hearings on the
small-schools policy.

Education Department officials dispute the accusation. According to their
statistics, immigrants form a higher share of students in small high schools
(12.9 percent) than in all high schools (11.2 percent). With the International
Network schools removed, the department says, immigrant pupils are slightly
underrepresented in small schools. The immigration coalition's report concluded
that the gap was substantially larger.

WE love the fact that the argument and criticism has moved from opposing small
schools to asking us to build more and open more,'' said Jemina R. Bernard, the
chief operating officer for the Education Department's office of new schools.
But when it came to discussing the educational options for immigrant pupils, Ms.
Bernard used a phrase -- ''slow and steady'' -- that few would associate with
the department's creation of 200 small schools in less than five years.

What slow and steady translates to, in practice, she acknowledged, is a rule
that any new school gets a two-year waiver before it even tries to establish a
bilingual or dual-language program. And even after two years, few small schools
will ever reach the critical mass of students eligible for a bilingual or
dual-language class with a certified teacher.

Rather, the immigrant pupils in most small schools receive E.S.L. instruction,
which may be a brief session, as short as 15 or 30 minutes, for a small group,
or some extra attention in the classroom from a teacher unlicensed in E.S.L. To
try to remedy the situation, the department has recently begun offering grants
to small schools to pay a full-time E.S.L. teacher.

As for the specific decisions about Lafayette, Ms. Bernard called the plan for
an international studies school ''an incredibly strong proposal.'' She suggested
it might be approved at a later time for a different site. The reconfigured
Tilden, she said, has enough unused space to accommodate more than the two small
schools scheduled to open next fall.

Meanwhile, uncertainty will continue for the thousands of immigrant pupils --
not just in Brooklyn but throughout the city -- wherever big high schools are
being closed and small ones are opening without comparable services.

''It's a very crazy way they're doing this,'' said Deycy Avitia, a specialist in
education reform at the New York Immigration Coalition. ''We're talking about
students and parents. We're not talking about Monopoly pieces.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Lawhead, a teacher of English as a Second Language, says
there are always trade-offs in breaking up big high schools. (Photo by Jeremy M.
Lange for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Anti-Bosnian Backlash Is Feared in Utah

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Martin Stolz contributed reporting from Salt Lake City,
and Dan Frosh from Denver.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 783 words

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 14


Most of the thousands of Bosnians living in the Salt Lake City area are refugees
of war, and all of them are toughened by the experience of making new lives in a
new country.

Now, state and local officials say that the rage and grief after the multiple
killings here in a shopping mall Monday by an 18-year-old Bosnian immigrant
threaten a backlash, and they announced plans on Wednesday for outreach meetings
and candlelight vigils to head off trouble and help the city heal.

''We're concerned, and we're trying to take proactive steps to keep this from
becoming an issue,'' said Patrick Thronson, a spokesman for Mayor Rocky
Anderson.

Ljubica Roth, the president of the Utah Consortium of Multicultural Groups, an
organization that works with refugees and immigrants, said, ''We are all
stressed.''

Ms. Roth said she received six reports on Wednesday of Bosnians in Salt Lake
City being accosted verbally, mostly about how they got into the country, she
said, or whether they intended to commit violence.

''Many people didn't go to work today because they were worried about it,'' Ms.
Roth said.

The number of Bosnian refugees in the Salt Lake City area has been estimated to
be 3,000 to 7,000, most of them Muslims fleeing violence by Serbs in the early
1990s.

Police investigators said they still did not know what made the killer, Sulejmen
Talovic, drive to the Trolley Square mall just before 7 p.m. and open fire. Mr.
Talovic worked a regular day's shift until 5 p.m. at a company that supplies
uniforms to businesses, his boss said. Then he drove to the mall, strapped on a
bandoleer of shotgun shells and a backpack full of handgun ammunition and killed
five people before being shot dead by police officers. Four people were
seriously wounded and remain hospitalized.

In a state where the mainstream culture is white, politically conservative and
Mormon, the mystery of Mr. Talovic's motive has been compounded by questions of
ethnicity, assimilation and psychology. His traumatic experiences as a child in
Europe -- his family arrived in the United States from Croatia in 1998 when he
was 9 or 10, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement said -- might
have had much to do with what happened at the mall, or nothing at all. And with
no apparent motive for the rampage, tensions are running high.

Mayor Anderson's spokesman said the mayor would meet with local Bosnians and
Bosnia-Herzegovina's ambassador to the United States on Thursday at a Bosnian
restaurant to hear their concerns. An outdoor vigil is scheduled for Thursday
night downtown, with the mayor and Gov. Jon Huntsman Jr. in attendance and
Bosnians and non-Bosnians invited.

''Governor Huntsman is hopeful that residents will see this as an isolated act
by one deeply deranged individual and not use it to unfairly judge an entire
community,'' said Michael Mower, a spokesman.

The mystery over Mr. Talovic was just as deep in Rose Park, the working class,
mostly immigrant neighborhood of northwest Salt Lake City where he and his
family lived. Mr. Talovic was a legal United States resident with a green card.

Few neighbors remembered him, but they described the other Talovic family
members, including his younger sisters, his mother and his father -- who they
said was a truck driver who was often away -- as quiet and respectable. The
family could not be reached by telephone, and no one answered the door at their
bungalow. On the front porch, someone had left a gift-wrapped potted flower.
Wedged into the door jamb was a sealed envelope with one hand-written and
underlined word: ''Sorry.'' Inside it, visible through the address window, were
$20 bills.

Dr. Stevan Weine, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Illinois at
Chicago who is writing a book about Bosnian teenagers in the United States, said
Bosnians often had higher rates of mental problems because of their experiences
in the civil war in their homeland. But he said those difficulties were
generally not expressed through violence.

Some Bosnians in Utah say that all the generalizations about what Bosnians are
or are not or what sort of psychological baggage they carry is irrelevant to the
story of the Trolley Square killings.

''There's bad people everywhere,'' said Emir Ceho, a 23-year-old truck driver
who came to Utah from Bosnia when he was 12. ''My family survived war and came
here with nothing, and now we're O.K.''

Mr. Ceho, sitting at the counter at Bosna, a Bosnian restaurant, dug into
cevapi, a sweetly spiced sausage sandwich that is his favorite dish. Soccer
blared on the television, ''What was in his head?'' he asked, referring to Mr.
Talovic. ''I just keep wondering what he was thinking.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2007



CORRECTION: A credit line with an article on Thursday about plans for community
meetings in the aftermath of a deadly shooting rampage at a mall in Salt Lake
City misspelled the surname of a contributing reporter. He is Dan Frosch, not
Frosh.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An envelope holding cash and bearing the word ''sorry'' was
stuck yesterday in the Talovics' front door. A Roman Catholic medal showing the
Virgin Mary hung at the front gate.
 John Buddensick passed the home of Sulejmen Talovic in the Rose Park section of
Salt Lake City yesterday. (Photographs by George Frey for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 16, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Raids on the Mayor Make Him Topic A in a Small Town

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; GUTTENBERG JOURNAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: GUTTENBERG, N.J., Feb. 12


The whispers were everywhere in this sliver of a town on the Hudson: Federal
investigators were here looking for something.

Then on Jan. 26, the F.B.I. agents seized several computers, rifles and files
from the home of Mayor David Delle Donna, as well as records from Town Hall.

Mr. Delle Donna has not been charged with a crime and insists that he has done
nothing wrong, though a person close to the investigation said the January raids
were connected to a former bar owner and eight others charged in 2005 with
running a human trafficking ring.

In that case, the defendants are accused of conspiring to recruit young women in
Honduras and smuggle them into the United States, then forcing them -- some are
as young as 14 -- to dance and entertain at three bars in Guttenberg and nearby
Union City.

So far, four people have pleaded guilty, including Luisa Medrano, 51, of
Cliffside Park, whom investigators had accused of being the leader of the
trafficking operation. But in September she pleaded guilty to the relatively
minor charges of illegally harboring aliens and tax evasion.

According to state election records, Ms. Medrano contributed $3,000 to Mr. Delle
Donna's election campaigns. Mr. Delle Donna, 48, who has been mayor since 2002,
told The Hudson Reporter last week: ''I don't believe I've done anything
illegal. I feel I'll be exonerated.''

Then he went on to say: ''We live our lives based on the premise that we're
supposed to always try to help people when you're a public servant. I have
always had a very open-door policy here. I welcome people into my home,
sometimes people I barely know, because they've come to me for help. And in the
past, I've gone out of my way to help. I'm just disappointed that some of that
help can be misconstrued as being illegal.''

When contacted for this article, the mayor declined to comment further.

The January raids have left many in this town of 10,800 scratching their heads.
''I thought it was crazy,'' said Leon June, 51, who was waiting for a bus
recently on Bergenline Avenue. ''It's a small town; how much damage can you
do?''

And although no one is suggesting any connection to the trafficking, chatter in
this town that measures all of 4 blocks wide and 11 blocks long reached new
heights in recent weeks after two fires broke out at the only high-rise
apartment building in town, killing one person, and another fire erupted at an
abandoned building.

But Guttenberg -- a name that even New Jerseyans are not sure how to pronounce
(the first syllable sounds like gut, not toot) -- is in Hudson County, where
skullduggery is a spectator sport, and attention soon snapped back from the
fires to Town Hall.

In addition to being mayor, a part-time job that pays $6,700 a year, Mr. Delle
Donna is the coordinator for maintenance at the Hudson County Schools of
Technology in North Bergen.

The day after the raid on the Delle Donna home, a modest two-story house wrapped
in green aluminum siding, the mayor's wife, Anna, said in a telephone interview:
''We don't know anything. We are very good people.''

She added that the weapons the F.B.I. took were hunting rifles, though her
husband has not hunted in 15 years.

The mayor's political adversaries say he is ''a nice guy.'' ''David Delle Donna
doesn't come across as a bad person,'' an opponent said.

The United States attorney's office, which is handling the trafficking case,
declined to comment.

This isn't the first time that tiny Guttenberg, wedged in next to West New York,
has been on the wrong side of the headlines.

In 2003, the former mayor, Peter LaVilla, pleaded guilty to misappropriating
campaign funds and using the money for a private brokerage account after an
investigation by the United States attorney's office. In 2002, a councilman
accused of receiving illegal advances on his salary resigned, although he was
never formally charged. The same year, the town's chief financial officer
pleaded guilty to misappropriation of funds.

Despite the latest goings-on, the mayor is keeping up with his normal
responsibilities at the school and at Town Hall. At a council meeting on Monday,
he could be found poring over the minutiae of local government: youth softball
and baseball signups, problems with the prescription drug program, a shortage of
computers in the planning office.

Though it was the first meeting since the January raids, no one spoke of the
recent investigations and prosecutions, except the town's attorney, Charles
Daglian, who said outside the meeting in a second-floor conference room at Town
Hall: ''I've been a lawyer 27 years. I've seen it all.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Looking down Park Avenue in Guttenberg, a town 4 blocks wide
and 11 blocks long. Rifles, records and computers were seized from the home and
office of Mayor David Delle Donna, left, who denies wrongdoing. (Photo by
Richard Perry/The New York Times)Map of New Jersey highlighting Guttenberg.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deal Ends Case Against Ono's Chauffeur

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 853 words


Nearly two months after Yoko Ono's chauffeur accused her of destroying his
marriage and his self-esteem, and demanded $2 million in compensation,
prosecutors yesterday dropped extortion charges against him and allowed him to
plead guilty to a lesser charge.

In a deal that the Manhattan district attorney's office said Ms. Ono had agreed
with, the chauffeur, Koral Karsan, 50, pleaded guilty to attempted grand larceny
in the third degree, a felony, and was sentenced to the 60 days he has spent in
jail.

Mr. Karsan was immediately released into the custody of immigration officials
because he is in the United States from his native Turkey on an expired business
visa.

But his lawyer, Robert Gottlieb, said he hoped that Mr. Karsan would be allowed
to leave the country voluntarily, with the option of seeking to return instead
of having to be deported.

As part of the deal, Mr. Karsan read a prepared statement yesterday in State
Supreme Court in Manhattan.

The statement was most striking for its lack of any expression of apology,
regret or remorse.

It was, rather, a terse, three-paragraph accounting of the facts of the case. It
ended with an admission that he had demanded not $2 million -- the sum he
actually asked for in what prosecutors called an extortion letter -- but ''an
amount more than $3,000,'' which is the amount of money that the law defines as
the threshold for third-degree grand larceny.

''On Dec. 8, 2006, I handed Ms. Yoko Ono a letter inside her home located on the
Upper West Side of Manhattan,'' Mr. Karsan said in his remarks to the court.
''The letter stated that I had been using hidden cameras to take pictures of Ms.
Ono, and I had recorded Ms. Ono's private conversations with her friends and
family.''

The agreement capped a two-month melodrama in which prosecutors said that Mr.
Karsan had threatened to release embarrassing photographs of Ms. Ono in her
nightclothes, and even to kill her, if she did not comply with his demand for
money.

Mr. Karsan had countered that Ms. Ono humiliated and degraded him, wrecking his
marriage and making him so nervous that he ground eight of his teeth to the
bone.

Mr. Gottlieb said that Mr. Karsan had not apologized because he believed that he
had not done anything wrong, and that nothing in the deal reached yesterday
prohibited Mr. Karsan from talking or writing about his experiences over 10
years as Ms. Ono's chauffeur.

''There was nothing that happened today that restricts his right of free
speech,'' Mr. Gottlieb said. ''We discussed whether or not he could, and whether
or not he's going to, and I can tell you that he's of the mind that he
ultimately wants the truth to come out.''

A spokesman for Ms. Ono, Elliot Mintz, said that Ms. Ono felt vindicated by the
guilty plea and that she would probably have more to say about it after the
Presidents Day holiday on Monday. Mr. Mintz expressed skepticism about Mr.
Gottlieb's assertion that Mr. Karsan reserved the right to reveal details of his
experience as Ms. Ono's driver.

''I would just remind Mr. Gottlieb that his client signed a confidentiality
agreement,'' Mr. Mintz said. ''I have a feeling that Koral signed a very proper,
very legal and very binding confidentiality agreement, and I would hope he
adheres to it.''

An assistant district attorney, Anne Schwartz, indicated during yesterday's
hearing that Ms. Ono had agreed to the deal in order to avoid further invasion
of her privacy. Ms. Ono, 73, the widow of John Lennon, lives in the Dakota on
the Upper West Side.

''Although the people remain confident that we could prove each count of this
indictment,'' Ms. Schwartz said, ''the victim, her friends and family and
residents of the Dakota are interested in preserving the privacy of their
personal conversations in their homes.''

But Mr. Mintz said that concern for privacy should not be interpreted as a
message that Ms. Ono was afraid to testify in open court.

''I don't think any of us looks forward to going to court and having to testify
and all of that stuff,'' he said. ''But from the first action that she took I
think she indicated her assertiveness. I assume there are some people who when
they are the victims of a shakedown or extortion, they reach for their
checkbook. She's not one of those; she called the police.''

Mr. Gottlieb, however, said that Mr. Karsan was the one who had been vindicated
because Ms. Ono had dropped the extortion charges, which carried a penalty of up
to 15 years in prison.

Mr. Gottlieb said the deal was tantamount to an admission that the district
attorney's office had exaggerated its case against Mr. Karsan. ''One thing that
became very clear is that all the claims of threats to life and limb were just
out and out lies,'' Mr. Gottlieb said.

Mr. Gottlieb said Mr. Karsan was glad to have the case over before the wedding
of his son, which is to take place tomorrow.

''He can't go to the wedding,'' Mr. Gottlieb said. ''But I think everyone is at
least relieved on the eve of the wedding that the specter of an extortion
conviction and serious jail time is no longer hanging over anyone's head.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 21, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Audit Finds Flaws In Terror Statistics

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20


Federal prosecutors counted immigration violations, marriage fraud and drug
trafficking among antiterror cases in the four years after Sept. 11 despite
there being no evidence linking them to terror activity, a Justice Department
audit found Tuesday.

The inspector general's office said the flawed data appeared to be the result of
''decentralized and haphazard'' collection methods or disagreements over how the
numbers were reported.

In response to the audit, a Justice Department spokesman, Dean Boyd, pointed to
figures showing that prosecutors in the department's headquarters for the most
part either accurately or underreported their data, underscoring what he called
efforts to avoid pumping up federal terrorism statistics.

The numbers, used to monitor the department's progress in battling terrorists,
are reported to Congress and the public, and they play a role in shaping the
department's budget.

''For these and other reasons, it is essential that the department report
accurate terrorism-related statistics,'' the audit concluded.

Mr. Boyd added that the department had already completed most of the audit's
recommendations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Bronx: No Retrial In Murder Case

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 122 words


A man whose 1993 murder conviction was overturned last December will not be
retried, his lawyer said yesterday. The lawyer, Martin B. Klotz, said the Bronx
district attorney's office's two-month window to move to retry Jose Garcia
closed yesterday. Mr. Garcia served 15 years for the 1991 murder of a friend,
even though he said he was in his native Dominican Republic at the time. In
December, a federal judge overturned the conviction because Mr. Garcia's former
lawyer had failed to pursue solid evidence that he had been out of the country
when the killing occurred. Mr. Garcia, whose wife and four children are American
citizens, still faces deportation because he was an illegal immigrant at the
time of his arrest.    ANDY NEWMAN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Jail Suicide Darkens a Family's American Dream

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words


It took 20 years of sacrifices and separations for Nery Romero's parents,
immigrants from El Salvador, to obtain legal residency for the whole family in
the United States. But Mr. Romero, 22, quickly forfeited his right to stay.

His criminal convictions -- for an attempted robbery in 2003, and for breaking
into two parked cars to steal stereos in 2005 -- were more than enough to make
him deportable. So it was not exactly a surprise when his probation officer
showed up at his parents' home in Elmont, on Long Island, on Feb. 8 with a
half-dozen immigration agents who took him from the room he shared with his
girlfriend and infant daughter.

Mr. Romero was taking a powerful prescription painkiller for an unhealed leg
injury, and his girlfriend says the agents took along the medication, assuring
her that he would get proper care.

Five days later, he was dead. He hanged himself with his bed sheets in a cell at
the Bergen County Jail in New Jersey, the authorities said. And they were quick
to suggest an explanation.

''This guy did not want to go back,'' said Benjamin Feldman, a spokesman for the
county sheriff's office, which houses immigration detainees from New York under
contract with the federal government. He called Mr. Romero ''a reputed gang
member'' and said he might have feared revenge in El Salvador.

A closer look, though, reveals a different and more complicated picture of Nery
Romero's short life and unusual death. It raises questions about his treatment
in the jail, where the family and other inmates say he spent days crying out for
painkillers that he never received. It also shows the long shadow cast by his
parents' immigration: Like so many, they came for the sake of their children,
yet disrupted the children's lives along the way.

''I'm in hell,'' Mr. Romero wrote his family from the jail in a letter delivered
after his death. ''I'm like a dog in here. I don't get nothing for my pain. I
think that I'm going to sign my deportation papers.''

To George A. Terezakis, an immigration lawyer from Mineola, N.Y., hired by the
Romeros to investigate their son's death, the letter reflects Mr. Romero's
acceptance of deportation. If the young man was driven to despair, it was not by
the prospect of returning to his birthplace, the lawyer contends, but by
untreated pain and withdrawal from his medication, hydromorphone.

The medication had been prescribed after surgery that inserted metal rods in his
leg, which was smashed in a motorcycle accident last fall. Medical texts warn
that abrupt withdrawal causes severe back, leg and abdominal cramps, anxiety,
insomnia and other painful symptoms. An autopsy was performed last week, and
toxicology tests may eventually show whether any medications were in Mr.
Romero's system, his lawyer said.

Mr. Feldman said no outside medications were allowed in the jail, adding that
county employees operate a medical office there 24 hours a day, and that a full
stock of medication is available from a contractor, Diamond Pharmaceuticals.

He would not answer questions about Mr. Romero's care, citing medical privacy
laws. ''Even after an individual is deceased, their right to privacy does not
end,'' he said.

''There is no evidence that he was in his cell vocalizing any sort of
discomfort,'' he added. ''All policies and procedures were followed properly.''

But in independent accounts provided by different lawyers, two detainees said
that Mr. Romero had been denied painkillers and that his distress was common
knowledge.

All the time he was in jail, Mr. Romero's family was trying unsuccessfully to
reach or visit him.

On Feb. 12, his parents, Jose, a bricklayer, and Maria, a cleaner at a motel,
traveled to the jail with Mr. Romero's girlfriend, Kimberly Barajas, 20, and
their baby daughter, Genesis. They had been told Mr. Romero's visiting hours
were from 7 to 9:30 p.m., they said, but after arriving several hours early,
they learned it would take a week or two to get their names on the approved
visitor list. Without success, they asked to see a supervisor and to send a
message to Mr. Romero.

''They are turned away,'' Mr. Terezakis said. ''And the next day they get a
call: 'Is this the family of Nery Romero? Sorry to tell you, he's dead.' ''

Mr. Romero's cellmate had been transferred over the weekend, so Mr. Romero was
alone in his cell that night. At 10:30 p.m., he was still alive, Mr. Feldman
said, but 42 minutes later, a guard making the first round on the overnight
shift found him lifeless.

Nery Romero was born in a village called La Fortuna in 1984, when poverty and
death squads defined life in El Salvador. His father had already migrated
illegally to Hempstead, N.Y., to work for a construction company, and when Nery
was 6, his mother followed -- ''for a better future for the children.''

Last week, she broke down as she recalled how Nery had begged her not to go. She
said she told him and his three siblings that she was just going to the market
to buy them fruit.

''From there, I never came back,'' she said, sobbing. ''I didn't tell them that
I was leaving.''

To Belinda Fernandez, the bilingual guidance counselor for the Hempstead school
district, it is a familiar story.

''Many parents hope the child is going to cry for half an hour and forget,'' she
said. ''But the child wakes up and feels abandoned, rejected.''

Five years passed before a relative could smuggle the Romero children to the
United States. Nery, 11 by then, started a year behind in a Uniondale elementary
school and never caught up. Still lacking legal papers, he dropped out of
Hempstead High School at 16, in ninth grade, with his mother's blessing -- ''to
avoid problems with the gangs,'' she said.

That strategy, and Nery's part-time work in a plumbing supply store, failed to
keep him out of trouble. At 19, only a year after his parents obtained the
family's legal residency -- under a limited amnesty that included about 225,000
Salvadoran immigrants -- he joined a group of drunken friends who were trying to
rob a member of a rival group with a BB gun.

His reputation as a gang member dates from that period, said Ms. Barajas, who
had known him since grade school and insists he was not a member when he died.
''In those days he used to hang out with S.W.P.,'' she acknowledged, referring
to Salvadorans With Pride, a local gang.

Ms. Fernandez, the high school guidance counselor, did not remember Nery, but
she said such local gangs and the more frightening international versions, like
MS-13, have a special appeal for a generation of immigrant teenagers seeking a
sense of family after longed-for reunions fail to heal old wounds.

Mr. Romero was sentenced to five years' probation for the attempted robbery.
Soon after his 21st birthday, he was arrested again with one of his old
companions and eventually pleaded guilty to the car break-ins. It was a red flag
to immigration authorities.

By then, he had a son, now 3, and an estranged wife. She could not be reached
for her views about his past.

Andrew Eichhorn, a supervisor at the Nassau County Probation Department, said
his unit was shaken by Mr. Romero's suicide.

''It's upsetting to everybody,'' he said. ''We're human, so when something
doesn't go the way it was supposed to, we look at it and ask, what could we have
done differently?''

He has been trying to set up a support group and mentorship program for young
people who leave gangs. ''If I had had this up and running,'' he said, ''Nery
would have been a candidate.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: From right, the Salvadoran family of Nery Romero: Maria, his
mother
Jose, his father
Stephen, his brother
Kimberly Barajas, his girlfriend
and Genesis, his daughter. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg.
B1)
Nery Romero with his daughter, Genesis, in a December photo.
 Kimberly Barajas in the room in the Romero family's home where she and Nery
were living with their baby. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York
Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

British Court Affirms Order to Deport Cleric to Jordan

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 26


A British court ruled Monday that the government could deport a radical Islamic
cleric to Jordan, setting the stage for the deportation of other foreign
terrorism suspects in Britain to countries with poor human rights records.

The case of the cleric, Abu Qatada, which has been watched closely in
Washington, is the first involving foreigners in Britain accused of posing
threats to national security whom the government wants to deport rather than put
on trial. Mr. Qatada, a Jordanian citizen of Palestinian background who has been
living in Britain since 1994, has been convicted in absentia by a Jordanian
court on bombing and conspiracy charges.

Mr. Qatada has been described by the British authorities as a spiritual guide to
Al Qaeda. Tapes of his preaching encouraging violence against the West were
found among the belongings of Mohamed Atta, the leader of the Sept. 11
hijackers, and he met with Richard C. Reid, the failed shoe bomber, the police
say.

He is regarded as one of 10 foreign-born extremists who, the British government
says, have helped to radicalize young British Muslims, encouraging them to carry
out terrorism attacks.

The ruling on Monday by the Special Immigration Appeals Court rejected an appeal
by Mr. Qatada that argued that the cleric would be subjected to torture while in
prison in Jordan.

Mr. Qatada's lawyers said they would appeal the decision. Human rights advocates
criticized the ruling on the ground that it set a precedent for allowing
suspects to be turned over to countries where torture is used to extract
evidence.

A lawyer for Human Rights Watch, Julia Hall, said a memorandum of understanding
between Britain and Jordan that torture would not be used on terrorism suspects
returned to Jordan was an insufficient guarantee.

The British government has negotiated agreements that are intended to prevent
the torture of suspects returned to their homeland with Lebanon and Libya as
well as Jordan.

Ms. Hall said an August 2005 agreement between Britain and Jordan empowered a
private Jordanian organization to monitor the conditions under which Mr. Qatada
is held in prison once he returned to Jordan and to report on any abuses against
him.

But Ms. Hall described the group assigned to monitor him, Al Adaleh Human Rights
Center, as ''a tiny organization, a local organization that has no influence
with the government.''

In documents presented to a parliamentary committee, the British government said
it was working with the Adaleh center, established in 2003, to improve its
''capacity.''

Ms. Hall said the British government had ''poured tens of thousands of pounds''
to strengthen the fledgling group. But that investment would not overcome what
Manfred Nowak, the United Nations special investigator on torture, found to be
''institutional impunity'' of the Jordanian intelligence services regarding
torture, Ms. Hall said.

Mr. Nowak's report on torture in Jordan was issued by the United Nations in
January.

The British government praised the court decision, saying it upheld a policy to
deport foreign terrorism suspects after the subway and bus terror attacks in
2005 that killed 56 people, including 4 bombers.

''We welcome the decision of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission that Abu
Qatada presents a threat to our national security and can be deported,'' said
John Reid, the home secretary. ''We are also pleased that the court has
recognized the value of memoranda of understanding.''

The court concluded its ruling, saying, ''There is no real risk of persecution
of the appellant were he now to be returned with the safeguards.''

For the Bush administration, Mr. Qatada's deportation to Jordan would mean
easier access to a prisoner with potentially valuable information.

The issue of torture to extract evidence from terrorism suspects returned to
their home countries for interrogation became an issue last year when the
Canadian government found that Maher Arar, a Canadian citizen, who was sent to
Syria by American officials because of suspected links to Al Qaeda, was tortured
while in a Syrian prison for 10 months.

Mr. Arar was cleared of all terrorism charges by a Canadian commission of
inquiry last year. The commission found that even though a Canadian diplomat
visited Mr. Arar during his imprisonment in Syria, Mr. Arar was too afraid of
retribution from prison officials to discuss the torture against him.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abu Qatada, shown in a 2001 interview, has denied terrorism
charges. (Photo by ABC News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Game With No Winner

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 340 words


It's almost enough to make us nostalgic for streaking and sitting on flagpoles.
College students from Michigan to Florida have found a new way to get attention,
offend others and make a right-wing statement all at once. It's a game with a
name that says it all: ''Catch the Illegal Immigrant.''

The game is a variation on hide and seek: one player poses as the immigrant, and
everyone else tries to find that person. There's a prize, usually $200 or less,
which is not much, but enough to celebrate the cheap exploitation of a fellow
human.

''Catch the Immigrant'' is the brainchild of an intern with the College
Republican National Committee, who lost her post after coming up with this and
other campus recruitment gimmicks. Another game, called ''Fun With Guns,''
invited young Republicans to fire BB guns or paint balls at cardboard cutouts of
Democratic leaders. Republican Party leaders have tried to distance themselves
from the games, but seem to have done little to stop them.

The right-wing organizers of the immigrant games -- particularly Young Americans
for Freedom and Young Republicans -- have declared piously that they're just
trying to spark debate. At that, they have succeeded. Protesters defending
immigration and human dignity have outnumbered the game's players at the
University of Michigan, Michigan State, Pennsylvania State and other campuses,
including, most recently, at New York University.

The reaction from schools has been mostly tepid. Administrators are in a tough
spot, trying to balance free speech with offensive behavior. More speech is the
answer, including voices of authority pointing out the nastiness of this game as
well as the inherent cruelty of hunting people for sport.

''Catch the Immigrant'' also reflects a larger misunderstanding of the
immigration issue. The more than 11 million illegal immigrants cannot be caught.
Even if they could be, rounding them up and deporting them would be disastrous,
economically and socially. Educators should teach the game players about the
real world.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Immigrant High Schoolers Receive a Lesson in Disappointment

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN.

Samuel G. Freedman is a professor of journalism at Columbia University. His
e-mail address is sgfreedman@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION;
Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1056 words


Two winters ago, Pablo Oliva began the process of applying to public high
schools in New York. A complicated process at best, it looked utterly byzantine
to a 13-year-old who had only recently come to America from Argentina. But there
in the vast list of choices, amazingly, Pablo found the ideal place.

It was a brand-new school, and would specialize in teaching English to immigrant
teenagers. It would be situated on the campus at Kingsborough Community College,
a 10-minute bus ride from Pablo's home in the Gravesend section of Brooklyn. The
school's partnership with Kingsborough meant that Pablo could use the college
library, swim in the college pool and, most important, take classes for college
credit.

Now, nearing the end of his sophomore year, Pablo has been the victim of a
bait-and-switch. What was initially called the International High School at
Kingsborough Community College operates miles from that campus, sharing part of
a middle school's building in Canarsie. Pablo's commute to what is now simply
called International High School takes more than an hour each way. He has no
access to college facilities or classes. And like a number of his classmates, he
has been intimidated and robbed just outside the building.

''It's very awful,'' he said during an interview last week. ''I feel bad and
sad. I'm wasting time off my life.'' Then he translated a comment his father,
Hernan, was making in Spanish: ''The Department of Education is lying to New
York citizens. And they lied to us.''

Officials at the department acknowledge that they opened registration for the
school without having obtained the promised site on or near the community
college. And, even as the school is well into its second year, the department
does not have an alternative to the current site at 755 East 100th Street.

''We were aggressive in opening the school,'' said Garth Harries, the chief
executive officer of the department's office of new schools. While ''one side of
the balance sheet'' was the lack of a better location, he said, that concern was
outweighed by the record of academic success at several other high schools in
the so-called Internationals Network. ''We understand that just as we make these
trade-offs, it creates trade-offs for parents and families,'' he said, adding
that the department had not deliberately misled the 160 families with children
in the school.

Yet what remains starkly evident in speaking to a half-dozen current students
and their parents, as well as to educators and immigration advocates familiar
with the situation, is that none of the immigrant families had any inkling about
the abrupt change in location and academic offerings until two weeks before the
high school opened in September 2005.

By then, it was too late for the pupils to apply elsewhere. They and their
families had no choice but to listen to repeated assurances from the department
that the school would move imminently to a more suitable location. Late last
fall, the principal, Michael Soet, invited representatives from the department
to address about 50 parents and students. At the last minute, the officials
canceled because they had no solution to offer.

''Nobody cares,'' said Sohir Mikhail, an immigrant from Egypt whose son, Fady,
attends the school. ''The guys at the board of ed are not going to hear the
voices of immigrants.''

What those voices express is a sense of betrayal. Even as many students and
parents praise the Canarsie school for its academic program, they castigate the
education department for its unkept promise of a safe, convenient school with
access to college courses.

MIGUEL LOPEZ, a clergyman, enrolled his sons Jeferson and Johantry in the school
because the Kingsborough campus was about 15 minutes from their home in
Flatbush. It takes the boys nearly 90 minutes by a combination of subway and bus
to reach the Canarsie site. On the two days a week when physical education is
scheduled, they must leave home by 5:30 a.m.; the class starts at 7 because the
school gym is oversubscribed during regular periods.

The inconvenience might not matter so much if the students felt secure in the
neighborhood. But the immigrant teenagers have become easy prey for criminals
who linger just off school grounds. A Haitian pupil was beaten up at a nearby
bus stop recently, and lost several teeth. A Dominican teenager's gold chain was
stolen as he walked to the subway after his first day of classes. Pablo Oliva
was robbed even of his MetroCard.

Youstina Rafla, a ninth grader, said: ''I'm afraid to stay after school for
yoga. I'm afraid to leave alone after dark. You have to come as a group and go
as a group.''

Mr. Harries and Jemina Bernard, another top executive in the new-schools office,
said they had been unaware of the safety problems at the high school until this
columnist recounted several incidents.

But Mr. Soet, the principal, sent an e-mail message saying, ''All of the
incidents that have been reported to me I have in turn reported to the
Department of Education through the appropriate channels.'' He added that he had
made repeated requests -- as yet unanswered -- to have a second school safety
officer assigned.

Then there is the matter of the college courses. The flagship school of the
Internationals Network in New York, on the campus of LaGuardia Community College
in Queens, not only allows students to take college classes but ultimately to
earn an associate's degree. The families that chose the Brooklyn school had been
led by the education department to expect something comparable.

Instead, Jeferson Lopez discovered he would not be able to take classes to
prepare for a career in architecture. Youstina Rafla, who aspires to be an agent
with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has been unable to start amassing
college credits. Pablo Oliva could not even get permission to use the
Kingsborough library on weekends.

Meanwhile, Ms. Bernard said the education department was ''in the process'' of
identifying a school site closer to Kingsborough, with the prospect of opening
it for the 2007-8 academic year.

The parents and pupils can be forgiven for hearing such words with a tad of
skepticism. ''I still don't believe what they're telling us,'' said Pablo Oliva.
''For two years, they've been telling us we would move. I want to know the
truth.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pablo Oliva, 15, feels betrayed by the Department of Education.
(Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Learning a Language: A Child's Edge

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Basics; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 442 words


Any adult who sets out to learn a foreign language knows how frustrating it can
be to make sense of the simplest rules of semantics and syntax. Words are hard
to remember; phrases, hard to come by. The mere task of pronunciation can be a
battle for control: your brain tells your tongue to vibrate against the roof of
your mouth, but your tongue rolls on itself instead.

As more immigrants enroll in publicly financed English classes, they are
discovering that the frustrations of long waiting lists, crowded classrooms and
missing textbooks are often dwarfed by the challenge of learning the language of
their new home.

''I think this is one of the most difficult things I've ever done,'' Maria de
Oliveira, 26, an immigrant from Brazil, said in her native Portuguese. She lives
in Yonkers and has been taking English classes since mid-January.

The fact is, it is hard for adults to learn a new language, much harder than it
is for their children. But there is no simple answer as to why that is the case.

In 1959, the neurosurgeons Wilder Penfield and Lamar Roberts tried to answer the
question. They concluded that there was a critical period, ending around
puberty, when the brain, with proper stimuli, is best suited to learn a
language. After that, the task becomes much more difficult.

Their theory remains controversial, and neuroscientists and linguists have
broadened the inquiry. They say social and psychological factors also are at
play.

Children who must learn a new language have certain advantages over adults
beyond biology, researchers say, starting with the fact that they are not
preoccupied with paying the bills or figuring out what's for dinner. Their minds
are clear and relaxed.

By contrast, said D. Bradford Marshall, an expert in language acquisition at
Harvard, ''adult immigrants are thrust into a society they don't understand,
which only compounds their anxiety.''

To succeed, he said, adults must have self-confidence, a strong desire to learn
and a willingness to stick with it.

Another advantage immigrant children enjoy is that they are often surrounded by
native speakers, in schools or on playgrounds, while adults tend to gravitate
toward people who speak the same language as they do. That safety net becomes
their greatest barrier to full exposure to the language of their new country,
according to Dr. Michael Merzenich, professor of neuroscience at University of
California, San Francisco.

Dr. Merzenich has also theorized that the brains of people who speak but one
language become progressively preoccupied with that language as they grow older,
making it harder for them to absorb a new language.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 5, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cities Mesh Across Blurry Border, Despite Physical Barrier

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; TIJUANA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, Feb. 27


Mexican authorities complained recently that American construction workers
putting up a barrier on the border between Mexico and the United States had
trespassed into Mexico a full 33 feet.

Promising an investigation of the diplomatic brouhaha, the American ambassador,
Antonio O. Garza Jr., reassured the Mexicans, who are livid that the barrier is
going up in the first place, that any improper step across the line was
unintentional. ''The U.S. is sensitive to Mexican concerns,'' Mr. Garza said.

The accusation involved an episode in February east of here, near the Mexican
border city of Agua Prieta and the Arizona town of Douglas. But it drove home a
point that might be more evident in Tijuana than anywhere else: the border is a
blurry one, no matter what barriers may be going up to keep people from
illegally crossing it.

A case in point is Kurt Honold Morales, a citizen and resident of both
countries, who drives his Mercedes sports utility vehicle with California plates
around Tijuana, where he works.

Mr. Honold, a 46-year-old telecommunications executive, recently became the
mayor of Tijuana, when the elected mayor resigned to run for governor and Mr.
Honold, a business associate and the mayor's No. 2, stepped in to fill the
unexpired term.

''We're connected, border or no border,'' Mr. Honold said, noting that his
children go to San Diego schools and that his family has held season tickets for
the San Diego Chargers for more than 30 years.

On a host of issues, there is no separating San Diego, the largest city along
the border, from Tijuana, the biggest municipality on the Mexican side.

They are linked economically, with Tijuana's assembly plants, or maquiladoras,
helping to fuel growth on both sides of the border. High home prices in San
Diego have pulled up Tijuana's real estate as well.

When it comes to the environment, it is difficult to say where Mexico ends and
the United States begins. Air pollution knows no borders, and heavy rains in
Tijuana send sewage and industrial waste down the Tijuana River into the United
States.

A former congressman once used a bulldozer to try to push sewage back to Mexico,
but that was no permanent fix. For years, an American-financed sewage treatment
plant on the Tijuana side has been considered the best solution, although now
support is increasing for a plant to process waste on the American side.

There are other cross-border irritants. When San Diego announced that it was
replacing a leaky section of the canal that carries water into the city from the
Colorado River, Mexicans complained loudly because their farmers had been
irrigating their crops with the leakage for decades.

Mr. Honold, whose German-Mexican father was born in San Diego, is hardly the
only person whose life straddles the border.

There is Elisa R. Penaloza-Aguirre, also a dual citizen, who teaches in a San
Diego elementary school but moved to Tijuana a year ago for the lower home
prices and so that her children would become fluent in Spanish as well as
English.

''There are tons of people who commute back and forth,'' said Ms.
Penaloza-Aguirre, one of 88,252 regular crossers who have a special American
pass that allows them to use a fast lane at the California-Mexico border.

There is metal border fencing running the length of Tijuana, but that does not
stop people from trying to poke holes in the barriers, both literally and
figuratively.

For years, the San Diego-Tijuana Border Initiative, a binational antidrug
organization, held its meetings right at the fence, with American members
sitting on chairs on their side and their Mexican colleagues on the other. ''The
drug problem does not stop at the border,'' said Veronica Baeza, the group's
executive director.

But American authorities soured on the meetings after Sept. 11, 2001, Ms. Baeza
said. Now the sessions are rotated between the cities, though Mexicans without
visas cannot attend the ones in San Diego.

It is hard to find a Mexican who supports the barriers going up along the
border. Many are offended by such an approach, even those like Tijuana's mayor,
who will be able to cross back and forth no matter how high the walls are built.

On the other hand, Representative Duncan Hunter, a Republican who represents
part of the San Diego area and is a candidate for president, has said building a
wall between Mexico and the United States will be among his highest priorities
if he wins. One of his campaign advisers, Lois Eargle, a county official in
South Carolina, recently boasted about the advice she gave an illegal immigrant
seeking legal aid for an abused child.

''I told her the best thing for her to do was to get back to Mexico,'' Ms.
Eargle said.

Luis Ituarte, a third-generation Tijuanan who lives in Tijuana half the week and
Los Angeles the other half, has a much more relaxed view of the border.

Just recently, his Border Council of Arts and Culture rented a house in Tijuana
just a few steps from the border to use as a cultural center. Recently, it was
the site of a cross-border poetry reading. Using bullhorns, poets from Mexico
and the United States recited their work from their respective countries.

''Air doesn't need a passport,'' Mr. Ituarte said. ''Light doesn't need a
passport. Art should not need a passport either.''

Mr. Ituarte, who is a citizen of Mexico and permanent resident of the United
States, chose the site of the cultural center not just for its proximity to the
border. The house was seized by Mexican authorities several years ago when it
was discovered that drug traffickers had dug a hole in the concrete floor and a
tunnel that crossed under the border to a parking lot in San Ysidro, Calif.

''What better place to try to connect two cultures,'' he said. ''We want to
break this wall in a subliminal way, if we can't break it physically.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the perpetually jammed Tijuana crossing, one of the world's
busiest, cars frequently wait two hours or more to enter the United States.
 Brightly painted coffins, each marked with the number of migrants who died
trying to cross into the United States in various years, hang from the metal
barrier separating Tijuana, Mexico, from San Diego, Calif. (Photographs by Luis
J. Jimenez for The New York Times)Map of California and Mexico highlighting San
Diego and Tijuana: San Diego and Tijuana are connected in a variety of ways.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Suits Filed Over Deportation Center

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 106 words


Civil liberties and immigration advocates sued federal officials on behalf of
children confined to a former Texas prison that now serves as a center for
immigrant families awaiting possible deportation. The federal lawsuits,
announced by the American Civil Liberties Union in Austin, focus on children
held at the center, the T. Don Hutto Family Residential Facility. Critics say
the center inhumanely houses adults and young children in jail-like conditions.
A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement declined to comment on the
lawsuits but said in a statement that the center was a way ''to humanely
accommodate'' the families.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing New England: Massachusetts: Arrests Over Workers

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 96 words


The owner of a New Bedford leather company that won more than $90 million in
Defense Department contracts was arrested on charges of hiring illegal
immigrants. The owner, Francesco Insolia, 50, and three employees of the
company, Michael Bianco Inc., about 60 miles south of Boston, were arrested
after federal agents raided the company. The owner of a nearby record shop was
arrested on charges that he had provided fraudulent Social Security numbers and
other documents to the workers. Calls for comment to the leather company and the
record shop went unanswered.    KATIE ZEZIMA

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Post-9/11 Dream Turns Into a Struggle to Fill Tables

BYLINE: By EMILY VASQUEZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words


In the aftermath of 9/11, it was a venture born of tragedy and idealism. Former
workers at Windows on the World, the restaurant atop the World Trade Center
where 73 employees were killed, decided to start their own restaurant.

It would be called Colors to reflect the fact that many of them were immigrants.
In an unusual business model, it would be a cooperative, with every employee,
from dishwashers to executive chef, having an ownership stake. The restaurant
would offer fine dining on white linen, but would focus on protecting workers'
rights, and no one would make less than $13.50 an hour, far higher than average
restaurant wages.

Perhaps most important, it would be a source of pride. ''We are immigrants,''
said Patricio Valencia, who is from Ecuador and is the head bartender at Colors.
''We're showing the people we can do it.''

The restaurant's link to 9/11 attracted intense news media attention when it
opened in January 2006, on Lafayette Street near Astor Place, in the NoHo
section. The workers were able to leave the jobs they had held since 9/11, and
at first reservations poured in, filling the dining room's 125 seats in the
first few weeks.

In time, though, the publicity and the goodwill it generated faded, and Colors
has struggled through its first year. The ideal of doing things differently and
more equitably collided with the hard knocks of the restaurant business in one
of the country's toughest markets.

Managers decided that they had to cut labor costs, and the worker-owners voted
to lower the minimum wage to $9.45 an hour, at least until business improved.
Some reduced their hours and took second jobs, and others left the co-op
altogether, reducing its payroll. Despite those efforts, it was late with its
rent of more than $20,000 one month last summer, when many tables sat empty.

They voted to reduce prices, and to do away with the white linen tablecloths,
hoping to strike a more casual, comfortable chord that would draw in the
neighborhood's foot traffic, even patrons wearing jeans. Along the way, nearly
40 members left the co-op.

''The place just stopped making money,'' said Jean Emy Pierre, who was a line
cook at Windows on the World and is now the executive chef at Colors. ''We're
dead, doing 10 covers, 20 covers, 30 covers a night,'' he said, referring to the
number of customers. ''That was the point where I was like, 'What's going on?
What's happening? Why are people not coming? What did we do wrong?' ''

Despite its extraordinary back story, Colors became one more restaurant fighting
to survive in one of New York's most crowded and competitive industries; about
70 percent close or change hands in their first five years in the city, experts
say. Besides labor costs and rent, the venture owed monthly payments on a $1.2
million loan from a consortium of more than a dozen hard-won lenders.

There are roughly 26,000 restaurants in New York and one other worker-owned
restaurant in Manhattan, although that one was operated for years under
traditional ownership, according to industry experts.

David Jimenez, an organizer for the Restaurant Opportunities Center of New York,
a labor advocacy group that put up $500,000 to help Colors open, said: ''There
is nothing in the co-op movement in the United States that has a history like
us. There is nothing in the worker movement that's done this.''

The opening was not easy. At first, there was disagreement over the basic
concept: some workers opposed opening an expensive restaurant and advocated a
more modest place. Traditional lenders balked at the experiment in cooperative
ownership, even after an Italian food cooperative provided $500,000 to support
the project.

Figuring out the reasons for the restaurant's troubles since the opening is
difficult. It could be a combination of factors -- prices, the location,
competition, or merely the whims of restaurant patrons. The menu is deliberately
international, with dishes including a Japanese-inspired bento box and South
American ceviches, some based on workers' family recipes. While entree prices
ranged between $18 and $33 at first, they were reduced to $25 and under.

The handful of reviews and articles, including one in The New York Times, have
focused more on the restaurant's history than on the quality of the food, an
emphasis that may not be enough to sustain a restaurant in a food-enamored city.

Even as customers have responded to the recently revamped decor and lower
prices, the financial difficulties still make it necessary to watch spending
very carefully. On a recent Friday, minutes before his shift was to end, Oscar
Galindo still had a dozen or so lobster claws to shell, the last of a counter
full he had reduced to a mound of fluffy meat. Then came his manager's stern
warning: ''Oscar, you're going to be really close to overtime,'' she declared.
''You have to stop; I mean you have to stop.''

Mr. Galindo, a prep cook from Mexico, certainly could use the extra money, but,
having seen the monthly financial reports himself, he said, ''We cannot do it
because, you know, we have to save money.''

Managers would not provide details about the earnings of Colors, but said it had
met its monthly financial benchmarks since September, and the restaurant hopes
to continue paying off its debt on schedule.

Still, it does not take an accountant to know that the restaurant's future is
uncertain. Tourists and people who knew its history helped fill Colors for a
while, but a core group of local regulars has recently started to take form.
Even so, visits to Colors on several Saturday nights, which should be the
busiest nights for most restaurants, show there is rarely a wait for a table.
Getting a last-minute reservation is almost never a problem.

''It's an ongoing struggle,'' said Saru Jayaraman, executive director of the
Restaurant Opportunities Center. Reaching the first anniversary was a major
victory, she said, but added, ''We don't have things perfect yet.''

Sharing ownership, intrinsic to the co-op's structure, has not come easily to
all the workers, who have invested hours of sweat equity, not cash, to earn
their stake in the restaurant. They must strike a delicate balance between being
owners and still respecting a chain of command from busboy to general manager.

''It's not something that's going to happen overnight; you have to create a
culture of workers,'' said Mr. Jimenez, who holds monthly meetings with the
Colors co-op. ''It's not just the workers learning how to work in a cooperative;
managers have to learn how to be managers in a cooperative.''

For some workers, the meaning of ownership already seems clear. Mr. Galindo, the
prep cook, clearly understands the consequences of overtime. In any other
restaurant, a prep cook would clock in and clock out, without a second thought
to the restaurant's finances. But Mr. Galindo is an active participant at the
monthly co-op meetings, translating the financial reports in a whisper so that
his Spanish-speaking co-owners can understand.

For now the tangible benefits of ownership remain far off. The workers will not
share in any profits until at least 2008, according to the co-op's plans. The
restaurant opened with 58 workers and now has 35, 18 of whom worked at Windows
on the World. One Windows worker who left is Victor Rojas, a bartender from the
Philippines. With two children to support, he said, he left the restaurant
reluctantly last summer, when he realized that the bar was overstaffed and was
offered a full-time bartending job at the Royalton Hotel in Midtown.

Before he left he told a co-op member, ''If you need me, call me anytime.''

Francesco Palmieri stayed for a while despite the pay cuts and the reduced
hours, because a second job kept him afloat and he hoped to move up in the
kitchen. In time, he was promoted to sous chef toward the end of last year, but
two months later his pay was bumped down to his previous rate, and he quit in
January. ''You don't feel like an owner unless you're seeing profits,'' he said.

Mr. Valencia, the bartender, said his family and friends sometimes asked why he
remained at Colors, given the challenges and the extra time he devotes, without
being paid, to board meetings and other responsibilities that come with
ownership.

''They say, 'But sometimes you don't make money,' '' he said. ''But it's my
place, I own this place,'' he answers. ''No matter what my family, my friends
tell me, I believe.''

Despite the troubles, the workers say the survival of Colors is about more than
just money. It is about proving that a hodge-podge group of immigrant workers
who usually are at the bottom of the restaurant industry can take control of
their professional lives and build something for themselves.

''I'm doing it to show that there's good black cooks out there, good Latino
cooks out there, there's good people out there from different countries that
know about the food industry, that know how to be good waiters,'' said Mr.
Pierre, who is from Haiti. ''Out there they said, 'No, only white Americans are
good at this, the best waiters are white, the best bartenders are white, the
best chef is white.' That's not true.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Colors was opened about a year ago in the NoHo section of
Manhattan by former employees of Windows on the World, a World Trade Center
restaurant. Many of the worker-owners are immigrants. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The
New York Times)(pg. B1)
Matey Ofori, a line cook at Colors, working a Saturday shift recently. The
restaurant menu is international and reflects the origin of many of the
immigrant workers, some of whom supplied family recipes.
Discussing business operations, from left, are Jean Emy Pierre, Shardha Young
and Fekkak Mamdouh, members of the board at Colors.
 Edgar Gutierrez, a waiter at Colors. The worker-owned restaurant started with
full tables, largely as a result of interest and sympathy. (Photographs by Todd
Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. B5)Map of Manhattan highlighting the location of
Colors restaurant. (pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Men Sentenced in Fictitious Terror Plot

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 8


Two Muslim immigrants were given 15-year sentences in federal prison on Thursday
for their convictions in a fictitious terrorist plot involving money-laundering
in which an F.B.I. informer pretended to deal in illegal arms.

The defendants, Yassin M. Aref, 52, an Iraqi refugee and an imam at a mosque
here, and Mohammed M. Hossain, 52, a Bangladeshi immigrant and the owner of a
pizzeria, sharply denied any wrongdoing or involvement in terrorism.

The sentence was immediately condemned by many friends, relatives and supporters
who jammed the courtroom. They charged that the two men were entrapped by an
overzealous Federal Bureau of Investigation and convicted by a jury swayed by an
anti-Muslim climate in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks. Lawyers for the
men said they planned to appeal the convictions.

Glenn T. Suddaby, the United States attorney for the Northern District of New
York, said, ''Obviously, after 9/11, the world changed drastically,'' and added:
''Our obligation is to prevent the next one. That is what this case is all
about.''

The men had faced terms of 30 years to life, but District Judge Thomas J.
McAvoy, citing unblemished records , made the sentences concurrent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 10, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Tragedy, Glimpsing Oft-Overlooked Newcomers' Lives

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; TRAGEDY IN THE BRONX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words


They began alighting in New York in the late 1970s, these Malian traders riding
the currents of the global economy. After a decade, maybe two, of intense work,
they sent for their wives who would bear many children and settle in Harlem
apartments and cacophonous old town houses on hilly streets in the Bronx.

Before the fire that took five of his children, Moussa Magassa was an early
godfather for this tiny but swiftly growing Malian community. He would greet
newcomers with a handshake and a meal, and perhaps some cash and help filing
legal papers and shipping goods back to Mali.

His brick town house near Yankee Stadium was known even in Mali as a beacon for
new immigrants and a symbol of a Malian's success in America.

Tragedy has drawn a city's eyes to this little-known corner of the West African
immigrant diaspora. An entrepreneurial group loosely bound by ties of ethnicity
and sometimes language, its members have established enclaves known as ''Little
Senegal' and ''Little Guinea'' marked by thriving import-export offices and
hair-braiding salons.

Some, particularly the Senegalese, peddle African goods -- and knock-off Swiss
watches -- and some engage in long-haul trucking while still others drive taxis
and run general stores and money-transfer offices.

But as so often happens, tragedy also exposes an immigrant community's secrets.
There is the Malians' practice of taking more than one wife, transplanted by
some from village compounds in the hills of western Mali to crowded apartments
in the Bronx. There is their often-faltering climb up the entrepreneurial
ladder, with attendant business failures and bankruptcies. And there is the
tricky business of immigration status: Many Malians are here illegally even as
they raise children who become the newest generation of New Yorkers.

The West Africans -- who number about 50,000, including 6,000 to 10,000 Malians
-- have suffered their share of high-profile tragedies in this city. In 1999
police officers in Harlem fatally shot Amadou Diallo, a Guinean peddler, when
they mistakenly thought he was reaching for a gun. (It was his wallet.) In 2003
an officer running through a storage facility on the Far West Side shot and
killed Ousmane Zongo, who was from Burkina Faso and repaired artwork.

Now a fire has consumed much of two families, and Malians on two continents are
in mourning.

Amadou Niangadou, 46, stood on Seventh Avenue and 122nd Street last night and
listened to his cellphone trill. All day he had fielded calls from friends in
New York and Mali, disconsolate at the news. He said Mr. Magassa, who is a
friend of his and is treasurer of the Association of Malians Living Abroad, was
in Mali because he was accompanying a blind countryman home.

''We are a traveling people, but our bonds back home are very close,'' he said.
Mr. Niangadou held up his hand and paused to see who was calling him before
continuing: ''Mr. Magassa, this guy, he has a big, big heart.''

Few places on earth are poorer than Mali, a land twice the size of Texas where
90 percent of the population earns less than $2 a day. But Mali was home to
Africa's first great sub-Saharan empire; it took root in the fourth century and
had trading at its heart. Malian traders led camel caravans to the
Mediterranean.

Poverty now fuels that diaspora.

''Travel and trade is for the Malians a central part of their identity,'' said
Gregory Mann, an associate professor of history at Columbia University and a
specialist in Francophone Africa.

France has 120,000 Malians, but in the 1970s and 1980s, Malians began turning to
the United States. Mr. Magassa was in that first wave. Many West Africans turned
to street peddling. (When the police cracked down, the Senegalese donned
sharp-looking suits and carried goods in attache cases -- these traders are
nothing if not adaptable.)

Mr. Niangadou, who owns an export business, sat with a dozen of his countryman
in Kouyate & Freres, a general store and money-transfer store on 122nd Street
and described the climb up the ladder:

''I started off hauling crates and worked in a supermarket,'' he said. ''Then I
began selling cloth and driving goods to other cities. I did 4,000 to 5,000
miles a month.''

Soon enough, the first arrivals sent for younger relatives. Women arrived in
large numbers in the mid-1990s, some possessing entrepreneurial instincts no
less formidable than their husbands'. Others land here without education,
steeped in old country ways, and submit to their husband's lead.

Mr. Magassa had two wives, Manthia and Aisse. It is not clear when they arrived
in this country, but some of their children were born here. Only two of Mr.
Magassa's seven children with Manthia lived through the fire. But all of his
four children with Aisse, who lived a floor apart from Manthia, survived.

Polygamy is common in Mali and throughout West Africa. But it is illegal in the
United States, and it can bar immigrants from gaining permanent legal residency
or citizenship. Many West Africans are uncomfortable talking about the practice
with an outsider, particularly so soon after the tragic fire.

But many West Africans say that Mr. Magassa's arrangement is a subterranean
feature of life here, particularly for older men who can afford it. At a
spacious African hair-braiding salon on 125th Street, Aminata Dia, the
Senegalese owner, consulted with her husband before talking about the practice
to a reporter. She said men traditionally bring the first wife first, but of
late many prefer to bring the youngest.

''I wasn't surprised,'' Ms. Dia said. ''It's our religion that allows men to
have four wives. But two wives in the same house, it's not so common -- usually
they have one wife abroad and one here.''

A fierce argument erupted about whether this was too volatile an issue to talk
about with an outsider. ''All women suffer from polygamy, but our religion says
we should not speak,'' said an employee, Aminata Fatou, 29. ''One can't do away
with that.''

Countered Ms. Dia: ''If every woman shuts her mouth, she is complicit. I'm
against polygamy -- it's bad for the woman, the man and the children.''

Then she added a coda: ''If you leave your country, you have to come with the
good things, not bring the bad things with you.''

Nor is it easy, even for the entrepreneurial Malians, to balance the demands of
building a life here with sending sufficient dollars back to their families and
villages in Mali. Malian immigrants in France, to cite just one example, send
money back home that is equivalent to France's total foreign aid for Mali. These
dollars pay for houses and schools, wells and, that rarest of things in the
dusty desert nation, paved roads.

These immigrants may hail from generations of traders -- many describe learning
their trade by working with fathers in Gambia, Senegal and the Ivory Coast --
but the financial hardships are great.

Mr. Magassa held several jobs, including one as a carpenter at the New York City
schools, before opening an import-export firm. His older brother, Mody Magassa,
owns a shipping firm in Midtown Manhattan.

But they and a third brother have all filed for bankruptcy. In his 2000 Chapter
13 filing, Mr. Magassa cited $214,700 in assets, $170,000 of it in his house.
And he cited $132,124 in liabilities.

In the general store, Kouyate & Freres, on Thursday night several of the Malian
men sipped tea and talked about being laid off from jobs as drivers and clerks.

Lurking behind their economic troubles is another reality. Roughly 3,5000
Malians enter the United States each year on temporary visas. But precious few
attain achieve citizenship: About 85 Malians a year, and as few as 19, since
1996. Only a handful have been granted asylum, typically women seeking refuge
from genital cutting, which is widespread in West Africa.

Evidence of the precarious legal status can be seen in the case of Mamadou
Soumare, whose wife, Fatoumata, and three of their four children perished in
this week's fire. They lived on the top floor of Mr. Magassa's house. Mr.
Soumare wants to bury his wife and children in Mali. But people who know the
family said that immigration issues could prevent him from accompanying the
bodies home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Manthia Magassa, who lost five of her seven children in a Bronx
house fire, left the Islamic Cultural Center on East 166th Street yesterday.
(Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Akima Brathwaite, right, has her hair braided by Seynabou Diop in a Harlem
salon yesterday. At the salon, owned by Aminata Dia, a Senegalese immigrant, the
talk was of polygamy, which is common in West Africa. (Photop by Todd
Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Between Black and Immigrant Muslims, an Uneasy Alliance

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; DISTANT BROTHERS: Bridging a
Divide; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4292 words


Under the glistening dome of a mosque on Long Island, hundreds of men sat
cross-legged on the floor. Many were doctors and engineers born in Pakistan and
India. Dressed in khakis, polo shirts and the odd silk tunic, they fidgeted and
whispered.

One thing stood between them and dinner: A visitor from Harlem was coming to ask
for money.

A towering black man with a gray-flecked beard finally swept into the room, his
bodyguard trailing him. Wearing a long, embroidered robe and matching hat, he
took the microphone and began talking about a different group of Muslims, the
thousands of African-Americans who have found Islam in prison.

''We are all brothers and sisters,'' said the visitor, known as Imam Talib.

The men stared. To some of them, it seemed, he was from another planet. As the
imam returned their gaze, he had a similar sensation. ''They live in another
world,'' he later said.

Only 28 miles separate Imam Talib's mosque in Harlem from the Islamic Center of
Long Island. The congregations they each serve -- African-Americans at the city
mosque and immigrants of South Asian and Arab descent in the suburbs --
represent the largest Muslim populations in the United States. Yet a vast gulf
divides them, one marked by race and class, culture and history.

For many African-American converts, Islam is an experience both spiritual and
political, an expression of empowerment in a country they feel is dominated by a
white elite. For many immigrant Muslims, Islam is an inherited identity, and
America a place of assimilation and prosperity.

For decades, these two Muslim worlds remained largely separate. But last fall,
Imam Talib hoped to cross that distance in a venture that has become
increasingly common since Sept. 11. Black Muslims have begun advising immigrants
on how to mount a civil rights campaign. Foreign-born Muslims are giving
African-Americans roles of leadership in some of their largest organizations.
The two groups have joined forces politically, forming coalitions and backing
the same candidates.

It is a tentative and uneasy union, seen more typically among leaders at the
pulpit than along the prayer line. But it is critical, a growing number of
Muslims believe, to surviving a hostile new era.

''Muslims will not be successful in America until there is a marriage between
the indigenous and immigrant communities,'' said Siraj Wahhaj, an
African-American imam in New York with a rare national following among immigrant
Muslims. ''There has to be a marriage.''

The divide between black and immigrant Muslims reflects a unique struggle facing
Islam in America. Perhaps nowhere else in the world are Muslims from so many
racial, cultural and theological backgrounds trying their hands at coexistence.
Only in Mecca, during the obligatory hajj, or pilgrimage, does such diversity in
the faith come to life, between black and white, rich and poor, Sunni and
Shiite.

''This is a new experiment in the history of Islam,'' said Ali S. Asani, a
professor of Islamic studies at Harvard University.

That evening in October, Imam Al-Hajj Talib 'Abdur-Rashid drove to Westbury, on
Long Island, with a task he would have found unthinkable years ago.

He would ask for donations from the immigrant community he refers to, somewhat
bitterly, as the ''Muslim elite.''

But he needed funds, and the doors of immigrant mosques seemed to be opening.
Imam Talib and other African-American leaders had formed a national ''indigenous
Muslim'' organization, and he knew that during the holy month of Ramadan, the
Islamic Center of Long Island could raise thousands of dollars in an evening.

It is a place where BMWs and Mercedes-Benzes fill the parking lot, and Coach
purses are perched along prayer lines.

In Harlem, many of Imam Talib's congregants get to the mosque by bus or subway,
and warm themselves with space heaters in a drafty, brick building.

Before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, Imam Talib had only a distant
connection to the Islamic Center of Long Island. In passing, he had met Faroque
Khan, an Indian-born doctor who helped found the mosque, but the two had little
in common.

Imam Talib, 56, is a thundering prison chaplain whose mosque traces its roots to
Malcolm X. He is a first-generation Muslim.

Dr. Khan, 64, is a mild-mannered pulmonologist who collects Chinese antiques and
learned to ski on the slopes of Vermont. He is a first-generation American.

But in the turmoil that followed Sept. 11, the imam and the doctor found
themselves unexpectedly allied.

''The more separate we stay, the more targeted we become,'' Dr. Khan said.

Each man recognizes what the other has to offer. African-Americans possess a
cultural and historical fluency that immigrants lack, said Dr. Khan; they hold
an unassailable place in America from which to defend their faith.

For Imam Talib, immigrants provide a crucial link to the Muslim world and its
tradition of scholarship, as well as the wisdom that comes with an ''unshattered
Islamic heritage.''

Both groups have their practical virtues, too. African-Americans know better how
to mobilize in America, both men say, and immigrants tend to have deeper
pockets.

Still, it is one thing to talk about unity, Imam Talib said, and another to give
it life. Before his visit to Long Island last fall, he had never asked Dr. Khan
and his mosque to match their rhetoric with money.

''You have to have a litmus test,'' he said.One Faith, Many Histories

Imam Talib and Dr. Khan did not warm to each other when they met in May 2000, at
a gathering in Chicago of Muslim leaders.

The imam found the silver-haired doctor faintly smug and paternalistic. It was
an attitude he had often whiffed from well-to-do immigrant Muslims. Dr. Khan
found Imam Talib straightforward to the point of bluntness.

The uneasy introduction was, for both men, emblematic of the strained
relationship between their communities.

Imam Talib and other black Muslims trace their American roots to the arrival of
Muslims from West Africa as slaves in the South. That historical link gave rise
to Islam-inspired movements in the 20th century, the most significant of which
was the Nation of Islam.

The man who founded the Nation in 1930, W. D. Fard, spread the message that
American blacks belonged to a lost Muslim tribe and were superior to the
''white, blue-eyed devils'' in their midst. Under Mr. Fard's successor, Elijah
Muhammad, the Nation flourished in the 1960s amid the civil rights struggle and
the emergence of a black-separatist movement.

Overseas, Islamic scholars found the group's teachings on race antithetical to
the faith. The schism narrowed after 1975, when Mr. Muhammad's son Warith Deen
Mohammed took over the Nation, bringing it in line with orthodox Sunni Islam.
Louis Farrakhan parted ways with Mr. Mohammed -- taking the Nation's name and
traditional teachings with him -- but the majority of African-American adherents
came to embrace the same Sunni practice that dominates the Muslim world.

Still, divisions between African-American and immigrant Muslims remained
pronounced long after the first large waves of South Asians and Arabs arrived in
the United States in the 1960s.

Today, of the estimated six million Muslims who live in the United States, about
25 percent are African-American, 34 percent are South Asian and 26 percent are
Arab, said John Zogby, a pollster who has studied the American Muslim
population.

''Given the extreme from which we came, I would say that the immigrant Muslims
have been brotherly toward us,'' Warith Deen Mohammed, who has the largest
following of African-American Muslims, said in an interview. ''But I think
they're more skeptical than they admit they are. I think they feel more
comfortable with their own than they feel with us.''

For many African-Americans, conversion to Islam has meant parting with
mainstream culture, while Muslim immigrants have tended toward assimilation.
Black converts often take Arabic names, only to find foreign-born Muslims
introducing themselves as ''Moe'' instead of ''Mohammed.''

The tensions are also economic. Like Dr. Khan, many Muslim immigrants came to
the United States with advanced degrees and quickly prospered, settling in the
suburbs. For decades, African-Americans watched with frustration as immigrants
sent donations to causes overseas, largely ignoring the problems of poor Muslims
in the United States.

Imam Talib found it impossible to generate interest at immigrant mosques in the
1999 police shooting of Amadou Diallo, who was Muslim. ''What we've found is
when domestic issues jump up, like police brutality, all the sudden we're by
ourselves,'' he said.

Some foreign-born Muslims say they are put off by the racial politics of many
black converts. They struggle to understand why African-American Muslims have
been reluctant to meet with law enforcement officials in the wake of Sept. 11.
For their part, black Muslim leaders complain that immigrants have failed to
learn their history, which includes a pattern of F.B.I. surveillance dating back
to the roots of the Nation of Islam.

The ironies are, at times, stinging.

''From the immigrant community, I hear that African-Americans have to learn how
to work in the system,'' said Nihad Awad, the executive director of the Council
on American Islamic Relations, adding that this was not his personal opinion.

At the heart of the conflict is a question of leadership. Much to the ire of
African-Americans, many immigrants see themselves as the rightful leaders of the
faith in America by virtue of their Islamic schooling and fluency in Arabic, the
original language of the Koran.

''What does knowing Arabic have to do with the quality of your prayer, your
fast, your relationship with God?'' asked Ihsan Bagby, an associate professor of
Islamic studies at the University of Kentucky in Lexington. ''But
African-Americans have to ask themselves why have they not learned more in these
years.''

Every year in Chicago, the two largest Muslim conventions in the country -- one
sponsored by an immigrant organization and the other by Mr. Mohammed's -- take
place on the same weekend, in separate parts of the city.

The long-simmering tension boiled over into a public rift with the 2000
presidential elections. That year, a powerful coalition of immigrant Muslims
endorsed George W. Bush (because of a promise to stop the profiling of Arabs).

The nation's most prominent African-American Muslims complained that they were
never consulted. The following summer, when Imam Talib vented his frustration at
a meeting with immigrant leaders in Washington, a South Asian man turned to him,
he recalled, and said, ''I don't understand why all of you African-American
Muslims are always so angry about everything.''

Imam Talib searched for an answer he thought the man could understand.

''African-Americans are like the Palestinians of this land,'' he finally said.
''We're not just some angry black people. We're legitimately outraged and
angry.''

The room fell silent.

Soon after, black leaders announced the creation of the Muslim Alliance in North
America, their first national ''indigenous'' organization.

But the fallout over the elections was soon eclipsed by Sept. 11, when Muslim
immigrants found themselves under intense public scrutiny. They began
complaining about ''profiling'' and ''flying while brown,'' appropriating
language that had been largely the domain of African-Americans.

It was around this time that Dr. Khan became, as he put it, enlightened. A few
weeks before the terrorist attacks, he read the book ''Black Rage,'' by William
H. Grier and Price M. Cobbs. The book, published in 1968, explores the
psychological woes of African-Americans, and how the impact of racism is carried
through generations.

''It helped me understand that even before you're born, things that happened a
hundred years ago can affect you,'' Dr. Khan said. ''That was a big change in my
thinking.''

He sent an e-mail message to fellow Muslims, including Imam Talib, sharing what
he had learned.

The Harlem imam was pleased, if not yet convinced.

''I just encouraged the brother to keep going,'' Imam Talib said.An Oasis in
Harlem

One windswept night in Harlem, cars rolled past the corner of West 113th Street
and St. Nicholas Avenue. A police siren blared as men huddled by a neon-lit
Laundromat.

Across the street stood a brown brick building, lifeless from the outside. But
upstairs, in a cozy carpeted room, rows of men and women chanted.

''Ya Hakim. Ya Allah.'' O wise one. O God.

Imam Talib led the chant, swathed in a black satin robe. It was Ramadan's
holiest evening, the Night of Power. As the voices died down, he spotted his
bodyguard swaying.

''Take it easy there, Captain,'' Imam Talib said. ''As long as you don't jump
and shout it's all right.''

Laughter trickled through the mosque, where a translucent curtain separated men
in skullcaps from women in African-print gowns.

''We're just trying to be ourselves, you know?'' Imam Talib said. ''Within the
tradition.''

''That's right,'' said one woman.

The imam continued: ''And we can't let other people, from other cultures, come
and try to make us clones of them. We came here as Muslims.''

He was feeling drained. He had just returned from the Manhattan Detention
Complex, where he works as a chaplain. Some of the mosque's men were back in
jail.

''We need power,'' he said quietly. ''Without that, we'll destroy ourselves.''

Since its birth in 1964, the Mosque of Islamic Brotherhood has been a fortress
of stubborn faith, persevering through the crack wars, welfare, AIDS, gangs,
unemployment, diabetes, broken families and gentrification.

The mosque was founded in a Brooklyn apartment by Shaykh-'Allama Al-Hajj K.
Ahmad Tawfiq, a follower of Malcolm X. The Sunni congregation boomed in the
1970s, starting a newspaper and opening a school and a health food store.

With city loans, it bought its current building. Fourteen families moved in,
creating a bold Muslim oasis in a landscape of storefront churches and liquor
stores. The mosque claimed its corner by drenching the sidewalk in dark green
paint, the color associated with Islam.

The paint has since faded. The school is closed. Many of the mosque's members
can no longer afford to live in a neighborhood where brownstones sell for
millions of dollars.

But an aura of dignity prevails. The women normally pray one floor below the
men, in a scrubbed, tidy room scented with incense. Their bathroom is a shrine
of gold curtains and lavender soaps. A basket of nylon roses hides a hole in the
wall.

Most of the mosque's 160 members belong to the working class, and up to a third
of the men are former convicts.

Some congregants are entrepreneurs, professors, writers and musicians. Mos Def
and Q-Tip have visited with Imam Talib, who carries the nickname ''hip-hop
imam.''

Mosque celebrations are a blend of Islam and Harlem. In October, at the end of
Ramadan, families feasted on curried chicken and collard greens, grilled fish
and candied yams.

Just before the afternoon prayer, a lean man in a black turtleneck rose to give
the call. He was Yusef Salaam, whose conviction in the Central Park jogger case
was later overturned.

Many of the mosque's members embraced Islam in search of black empowerment, not
black separatism. They describe racial equality as a central tenet of their
faith. Yet for some, the promise of Islam has been at odds with the reality of
Muslims.

One member, Aqilah Mu'Min, lives in the Parkchester section of the Bronx, a
heavily Bangladeshi neighborhood. Whenever she passes women in head scarves, she
offers the requisite Muslim greeting. Rarely is it returned. ''We have a theory
that says Islam is perfect, human beings are not,'' said Ms. Mu'Min, a city
fraud investigator.

It was the simplicity of Islam that drew Imam Talib.

Raised a Christian, he spent the first part of his youth in segregated North
Carolina. As a teenager, he read ''The Autobiography of Malcolm X'' twice. He
began educating himself about the faith at age 19, when as an aspiring actor he
was cast in a play about a man who had left the Nation of Islam.

But his conversion was more spiritual than political, he said.

''I'd like to think that even if I was a white man, I'd still be a Muslim
because that's the orientation of my soul,'' the imam said.

He has learned some Arabic, and traveled once to the Middle East, for hajj. Yet
he feels more comfortable with the Senegalese and Guinean Muslims who have
settled in Harlem than with many Arabs and South Asians.

He is trying to reach out, but is often disappointed.

In November, he accepted a last-minute invitation to meet with hundreds of
immigrants at the Islamic Cultural Center of New York, an opulent mosque on East
96th Street.

The group, the Coalition for Muslim School Holidays, was trying to persuade the
city to recognize two Muslim holidays on the school calendar. The effort, Imam
Talib learned, had been nearly a year in the making, and no African-American
leaders had been consulted.

He was stunned. After all, he had led a similar campaign in the 1980s, resulting
in the suspension of alternate-side parking for the same holidays.

''They are unaware of the foundations upon which they are standing,'' he
said.Backlash in the Suburbs

Brush Hollow Road winds through a quiet stretch of Long Island, past churches
and diners and leafy cul-de-sacs. In this tranquil tableau, the Islamic Center
of Long Island announces itself proudly, a Moorish structure of white concrete
topped by a graceful dome.

Sleek sedans and S.U.V.'s circle the property as girls with Barbie backpacks hop
out and scurry to the Islamic classes they call ''Sunday school.''

It is a testament to America's influence on the mosque that its liveliest time
of the week is not Friday, Islam's holy day, but Sunday.

Boys in hooded sweatshirts smack basketballs along the pavement by a sign that
reads ''No pray, no play.'' Young mothers in Burberry coats exchange kisses and
chatter.

For members of the mosque -- many of whom work in Manhattan and cannot make the
Friday prayer -- Sunday is the day to reflect and connect.

The treasurer, Rizwan Qureshi, frantically greeted drivers one Sunday morning
with a flier advertising a fund-raiser.

''We're trying to get Barack Obama,'' Mr. Qureshi, a banker born in Karachi,
told a woman in a gold-hued BMW.

''We need some real money,'' he called out to another driver.

The mosque began with a group of doctors, engineers and other professionals from
Pakistan and India who settled in Nassau County in the early 1970s.

''Our kids would come home from school and say, 'Where is my Christmas tree, my
Hanukkah lights?' '' recalled Dr. Khan, who lives in nearby Jericho. ''We didn't
want them to grow up unsure of who they are.''

Since opening in 1993, the mosque has thrived, with assets now valued at more
than $3 million. Hundreds of people pray there weekly, and thousands come on
Muslim holidays.

The mosque has an unusually modern, democratic air. Men and women worship with
no partition between them. A different scholar delivers the Friday sermon every
week, in English.

Perhaps most striking, a majority of female worshipers do not cover their heads
outside the mosque.

''I think it's important to find the fine line between the religion and the age
in which we live,'' said Nasreen Wasti, 43, a contract analyst for Lufthansa.
''I'm sure I will have to answer to God for not covering myself. But I'm also
satisfied by many of the good deeds I am doing.''

She and other members use words like ''progressive'' to describe their
congregation. But after Sept. 11, a different image took hold.

In October 2001, a Newsday article quoted a member of the mosque as asking ''who
really benefits from such a horrible tragedy that is blamed on Muslims and
Arabs?'' A co-president of the mosque was also quoted saying that Israel ''would
benefit from this tragedy.''

Conspiracy theories about Sept. 11 have long circulated among Muslims, and Dr.
Khan had heard discussion among congregants. Such talk, he said, was the product
of two forces: a deep mistrust of America's motives in the Middle East and a
refusal, among many Muslims, to engage in self-criticism.

''You blame the other guy for your own shortcomings,'' said Dr. Khan.

He visited synagogues and churches after the article ran, reassuring audiences
that the comments did not reflect the official position of the mosque, which
condemned the attacks.

But to Congressman Peter T. King, whose district is near the mosque, that
condemnation fell short. He began publicly criticizing Dr. Khan, asserting that
he had failed to fully denounce the statements made by the men.

''He's definitely a radical,'' Mr. King said of Dr. Khan in an interview. ''You
cannot, in the context of Sept. 11, allow those statements to be made and not be
a radical.''

When asked about Mr. King's comments, Dr. Khan replied proudly, ''I thought we
had freedom of speech.''

It hardly seems possible that Mr. King and Dr. Khan were once friends.

Mr. King used to dine at Dr. Khan's home. He attended the wedding of Dr. Khan's
son, Arif, in 1995. At the mosque's opening, it was Mr. King who cut the ribbon.

After Sept. 11, the mosque experienced the sort of social backlash felt by
Muslims around the country. Anonymous callers left threatening messages, and
rocks were hurled at children from passing cars.

The attention waned over time. But Mr. King cast a new light on the mosque in
2004 with the release of his novel ''Vale of Tears.''

In the novel, terrorists affiliated with a Long Island mosque demolish several
buildings, killing hundreds of people. One of the central characters is a
Pakistani heart surgeon whose friendship with a congressman has grown tense.

''By inference, it's me,'' Dr. Khan said of the Pakistani character. (Mr. King
said it was a ''composite character'' based on several Muslims he knows.)

For Dr. Khan, his difficulties after Sept. 11 come as proof that Muslims cannot
stay fragmented. ''It's a challenge for the whole Muslim community -- not just
for me,'' he said. ''United we stand, divided we fall.''The Litmus Test

Imam Talib and his bodyguard set off to Westbury before dusk on Oct. 14. They
passed a fork on the Long Island Expressway, and the imam peered out the window.
None of the signs were familiar.

He checked his watch and saw that he was late, adding to his unease. He had
visited the mosque a few times before, but never felt entirely at home.

''I'm conscious of being a guest,'' he said. ''They treat me kindly and nicely.
But I know where I am.''

At the Islamic Center of Long Island, Dr. Khan was also getting nervous.
Hundreds of congregants had gathered after fasting all day for Ramadan. The
scent of curry drifted mercilessly through the mosque.

Dr. Khan sprang to his feet and took the microphone. He improvised.

''All of us need to learn from and understand the contributions of the Muslim
indigenous community,'' he said. ''Starting with Malcolm X.''

It had been six years since Imam Talib and Dr. Khan first encountered each other
in Chicago. Back then, Imam Talib rarely visited immigrant mosques, and Dr. Khan
had only a peripheral connection to African-American Muslims.

In the 1980s, the doctor had become aware of the high number of Muslim inmates
while working as the chief of medicine for a hospital in Nassau County that
oversaw health care at the county prison. His mosque began donating prayer rugs,
Korans and skullcaps to prisoners around the country. But his interaction with
black Muslim leaders was limited until Sept. 11.

After Dr. Khan read the book ''Black Rage,'' he and Imam Talib began serving
together on the board of a new political task force. Finally, in 2005, Dr. Khan
invited the imam to his mosque to give the Friday sermon.

That February, Imam Talib rose before the Long Island congregation. Blending
verses in the Koran with passages from recent American history, he urged the
audience to learn from the civil rights movement.

Dr. Khan listened raptly. Afterward, over sandwiches, he asked Imam Talib for
advice. He wanted to thaw the relationship between his mosque and
African-American mosques on Long Island. The conversation continued for hours.

''The real searching for an answer, searching for a solution, was coming from
Dr. Khan,'' said Imam Talib. ''I could just feel it.''

Dr. Khan began inviting more African-American leaders to speak at his mosque,
and welcomed Imam Talib there last October to give a fund-raising pitch for his
organization, the Muslim Alliance in North America. The group had recently
announced a ''domestic agenda,'' with programs to help ex-convicts find housing
and jobs and to standardize premarital counseling for Muslims in America.

After the imam arrived that evening and spoke, he sat on the floor next to a
blazer-clad Dr. Khan. As they feasted on kebabs, the doctor made a pitch of his
own: The teenagers of his mosque could spend a day at Imam Talib's mosque, as
the start of a youth exchange program. The imam nodded slowly.

Minutes later, the mosque's president, Habeeb Ahmed, hurried over. The
congregants had so far pledged $10,000.

''Alhamdulillah,'' the imam said. Praise be to God.

It was the most Imam Talib had raised for his group in one evening.

As the dinner drew to a close, the imam looked for his bodyguard. They had a
long drive home and he did not want to lose his way again.

Dr. Khan asked Imam Talib how he had gotten lost.

''Inner city versus the suburbs,'' the imam replied a bit testily.

Then he smiled.

''The only thing it proves,'' he said, ''is that I need to come by here more
often.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Faroque Khan, left, and Imam Al-Hajj Talib 'Abdur-Rashid
serve very different mosques, one on Long Island and one in Harlem. (Photo by
James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Yusef Salaam, a Harlem mosque member whose conviction in the Central Park jogger
case was overturned, gave the call to prayer at a celebration. Up to a third of
the mosque's men are ex-convicts.
Clockwise from top left: Imam Al-Hajj Talib 'Abdur-Rashid at a rally against
profiling
congregants at his mosque in Harlem
Dr. Faroque Khan in prayer on Long Island
worshipers there at Ramadan's end. (Photographs by JAMES ESTRIN/The New York
Times)(pg. 30)
 Imam Talib leaving the mosque with his wife. ''I'd like to think that even if I
was a white man, I'd still be a Muslim,'' he said. (pg. 31)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rejecting the Levy Way

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 487 words


The Suffolk County Legislature would do its constituents a great service by
decisively rejecting an anti-loitering bill now before it. The bill forbids
people to obstruct vehicle or foot traffic on county roads. Its sponsors, Jack
Eddington and Joseph Caracappa, portray it as an innocuous safety measure, but
in fact it is a badly disguised effort to intimidate and harass Latino
immigrants, specifically the day laborers whose presence in Farmingville has
been a source of tension for years.

The concerns raised by Mr. Eddington and Mr. Caracappa are not baseless.
Residents complain about contractors' trucks snarling traffic and men dashing in
front of cars hoping to be picked up for a day's work. At a hearing last
Tuesday, where more than a dozen speakers from unions and immigrant-advocacy
organizations testified against the bill, Mr. Caracappa, as petulant a bully as
you may ever see in a deliberative body, harangued speaker after speaker to
agree with him on this point. Answer my question, he said, with the showboating
hostility of a junior prosecutor: How would you feel if you lived in a community
where hundreds of guys blocked traffic every day? He seemed frustrated that
nobody gave the correct reply.

Here's the answer we think he was looking for: Yes, Mr. Caracappa, you are
right. An out-of-control day-labor bazaar in a quiet suburb is a bad thing. It
would make us angry, annoyed and alarmed.

But we would then expect our elected representatives to do something about it.
And so we would say to you and Mr. Eddington: Is that it? Is that how you would
subdue Suffolk's day-labor market, by ordering contractors and laborers to get
off North Ocean Avenue and Horseblock Road? Is that the best you can do after
Farmingville's festering decade -- pass a bill of dubious constitutionality,
harass and criminalize day laborers, and, in a community sorely torn by ethnic
and class tensions, energize the xenophobes who sit in the back at public
hearings with their ''DEPORT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS'' signs, heckling the speakers
and muttering to themselves?

Yes, we would be angry. Not at the day laborers, who are only trying to make a
very poor living, but at lawmakers who could thoughtfully attack the problem but
don't. The bill, in fact, dovetails neatly with the shameful anti-immigrant
crusade of County Executive Steve Levy, who has gained national attention by
thinking up ways to demonize illegal immigrants, and has warmly endorsed this
one.

Some legislators at Tuesday's hearing tentatively brought up an idea discarded
years ago: a hiring site to get the trucks and men off the streets. This would
send the Legislature decisively in another direction, away from Mr. Levy's pet
obsession and toward healing community wounds, isolating the xenophobic fringe
and solving the Farmingville problem. The Legislature should consider it. But it
should start by voting down the anti-loitering bill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dreaming of a Life of Privilege, but First

BYLINE: By ANYA ULINICH.

Anya Ulinich, who lives in New York City, is the author of the novel
''Petropolis,'' just published by Viking.

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1650 words


I FIRST saw him in the break room at the graphic design trade school I was
attending in Phoenix. He was getting a Butterfinger from the candy machine, and
all I could think was that he looked like Bart Simpson -- same mischievous
smile, same flat-top haircut. ''Nobody better lay a finger on my Butterfinger!''
I imagined him saying, my mind grasping at linguistic and cultural straws.

I was 18 years old. My parents, my brother and I had recently arrived in Arizona
from Russia. We'd come on a tourist visa without English, money or legal
immigration status. I was about to start college when we left Russia, but in
Phoenix, college became a distant dream, while my reality consisted of dismal
''cash under the table'' jobs and waiting for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to acknowledge my family's asylum application.

So I was happy when some friends used their connections to  allow me to attend,
for free, this trade school -- the kind of place that advertises on local TV,
doesn't ask its students for their high school diplomas or green cards and seems
to survive off government financial aid. The school stood down the street from a
campus of Arizona State University, a place I fantasized about attending as I
traced puppies from pet food ads in my ''Rendering'' class. But I liked the
break room for the imposing machine that dispensed coffee and chicken soup into
tiny paper cups, and for its social potential, although I was too shy to talk to
anyone.

I was flattered when the Bart Simpson double began to flirt with me. Since my
fashion sense was dictated by clothing donations, I often wore floral dresses,
yellow construction boots and a straw hat festooned with wooden fruit.
Apparently, he found me exotic.

BEFORE coming to Arizona in search of a better future, he'd been a truck driver
in the Midwest, delivering vegetables to Amish stores. He said he used to
fantasize about seducing an Amish girl and told me that I reminded him of those
girls. I gathered he meant that he found me sheltered, high-minded and
repressed, though he wouldn't have used such words. After I told him I was
Jewish, he promptly assured me that he personally didn't think all Jews were
stingy and nicknamed me ''Anne Frank.''

With considerable effort, he climbed over our language barrier to tell me about
his life -- about how, when he was a toddler, his father came back from Vietnam,
stole a van and disappeared; about how his mom met his stepfather at an
Alcoholics Anonymous meeting; about ''speaking in tongues'' in church; about
wanting to quit chewing tobacco because spit cups were disgusting; about how
much he'd loved his job at T.G.I. Friday's before he got fired.

I lacked the experience and the cultural context to notice warning signs in his
stories. It was the first I'd heard of A.A., T.G.I. Friday's, tobacco chewing
and speaking in tongues. His life was my first American narrative, and in my
mind he was, foremost, an American -- that is, a privileged person whose
problems were by definition smaller than mine because he had the legal right to
work, owned a car and was allowed to apply for a Pell grant.

Our dates were a happy antidote to my family life. After raising two children in
Soviet Russia, my parents were accustomed to material poverty, but their fall
from the middle class and the uncertainties of the immigration process turned
them into nervous wrecks. My mother spent time between her cleaning jobs crying
-- from exhaustion, yes, but mostly from the humiliation of being a domestic
servant. In response to her breakdowns, my formerly mild-mannered father became
someone who shouted in frustration. There were too many of us in our dingy
Phoenix apartment, and it seemed that we were always screaming at each other. It
was a joy to escape into the sunset in my boyfriend's dented Ford Escort.

He taught me to in-line skate and sneaked me into a bar where his best friend
worked. On that date, I learned about darts and strawberry daiquiris and about
how many daiquiris it takes to make darts dangerous. He made me a mixed tape of
the Red Hot Chili Peppers and R.E.M. He let me drive his car and introduced me
to Chicken McNuggets.

I, meanwhile, tried to make him read Nabokov. This, after all, was what I'd done
with my high school boyfriend in Russia -- we exchanged books, wrote poems for
each other, kissed and held hands for hours, but never went beyond that. In my
mind, physical intimacy came later, after poetry, after making sure one was
absolutely, passionately in love, maybe even after marriage. This Victorian
attitude of mine quickly became a point of contention between my new American
boyfriend and me.

The first time he managed to wrestle one of my breasts out of my
near-bulletproof Czech bra, I slapped him across the face. I imagined I would
have sex in some distant, theoretical future, but not like this -- not on the
stained carpet of my family's apartment, with my hair dangerously close to the
open flame of a wall gas heater.

After I apologized, he agreed to take things more slowly. Still, it was apparent
to me that he was losing patience with my Russian-poetry-reciting, sexually
repressed approach to romance. One day, as he drove me to a mansion I cleaned, I
hit upon a solution to all of our problems. I could go to the university, get
out of my parents' apartment, and make him happy, all at once.

''Let's get married,'' I said, ''and I'll sleep with you.''

''O.K.,'' he said.

A week later, as I let him deflower me to the deafening beat of his roommate's
drumming in the next room, I had no dreams of rings or wedding dresses. Instead,
I had dewy visions of going to the campus bookstore and buying a backpack with
the A.S.U. insignia. I flashed forward to Physics 101. I thought about trading
housecleaning for a legal work-study job.

The next month we followed through. My mother made me a wedding dress from a
lacy leotard and some tulle, all the while admonishing me not to go through with
it. I cried (I sensed I was making a mistake). But doing nothing, losing him and
rejoining my family's precarious existence seemed worse. I was determined to
create a better life. And so, armed with gold bands from Sears, he and I drove
to the courthouse and took our place in line with other brides, grooms and
traffic-rules violators.

Neither of us had any idea what married life should be. We rented a cheap
apartment near the university and decorated. My husband decided it would be cool
if everything in the apartment were black. He built a futon frame and
spray-painted it black. We bought black dishes and black sheets. We bought a
white rat for a pet and built it a black cage.

Once that was done, it was just the two of us, still pretty much strangers. We
tried to get to know, and change, each other. After he graduated from the trade
school, I convinced him to go to college. We were poor enough that we both
qualified for financial aid. He took his first Russian class. Some day, I hoped,
he would read Brodsky in the original, and then I would really love him. He
continued to try to teach me how to have fun, a task complicated by the fact
that I wasn't of legal drinking age.

We quickly began to appreciate the hopelessness of our undertaking. I was
intolerant of his beer-drinking, foul-mouthed, Ren- and Stimpy-loving friends,
and soon they stopped coming over with six packs. Instead, he began going out
nearly every night. I waited for him outside our apartment, pacing and smoking
menthol cigarettes. When he got home, I nagged and cried.

That semester, he failed most of his classes, endangering his financial aid. In
frustration, I actually beat him with a broom. Our fights got so loud that our
downstairs neighbors threatened to call the police. We bounced rent checks, let
our apartment grow filthy, and lost track of our rat until it chewed through our
phone cable. Our infrequent moments of tenderness consisted of getting drunk and
watching reruns of ''Little House on the Prairie'' in our spit-cup-strewn living
room. The Ingalls's harmonious family had the ability to reduce him to tears,
and we hugged each other, for once feeling close in our alcohol-fueled mutual
regret.

Our inevitable separation was a re-enactment of our engagement: I suggested it,
and he happily accepted. We'd had enough of each other's abuse.

But separation only meant so much when, to avoid derailing my immigration
application, we continued to live together while trying our best to lead
separate lives. He'd tell me about ''doing laundry with Terry.'' I reveled in my
crushes on university students and professors. Occasionally we even slept
together, like a proper husband and wife.

Then I met someone, and my husband poured his jealousy into notes that he shoved
into my school locker and left on my boyfriend's car. He begged me to work on
our marriage, and threatened to call the I.N.S. if I didn't. I decided I needed
my own apartment. A few months after I moved out, we were divorced.

YEARS later, I'm remarried and have two young daughters. I don't believe in sin,
but when my daughters get older, I'll warn them against using sex as a means to
an end, and hope they never wind up in a situation that compels them to do so.
Sex is a pleasure and a gift, but when used as a tool of last resort by those
who are otherwise powerless, as I was, the damage can be serious and lasting.

To this day, I struggle to think of love outside the context of power dynamics.
The first thing I wonder when I observe any relationship is: ''Who is using
whom, and how?'' I am constantly watching, in my second marriage, for the demons
of my first to reappear.

I don't know if our brief, doomed experiment in marriage infected my ex-husband
with the same cynicism. I hope not. No more Bart Simpson than I was Anne Frank,
he deserved better than to be caught, pants down, in my desperate teenage
scheming.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Chelsea)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Meets Anger Over Immigration Issue as He Promotes Free Trade in Guatemala

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and MARC LACEY; Jim Rutenberg reported from Guatemala
City, and Marc Lacey from Iximche, Guatemala.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1109 words

DATELINE: GUATEMALA CITY, March 12


President Bush came to this struggling Central American nation on Tuesday
bearing a message that free trade with the United States would improve
conditions for even the poorest Latin Americans.

But he was also confronted with an angry, outside-in perspective on the
immigration debate raging at home, with even his otherwise friendly host,
President Oscar Berger, using a ceremonial welcome to criticize the arrest of
several hundred illegal workers, many of them Guatemalans, in Massachusetts last
week.

''As is the case in every mature relationship, once in a while differences of
opinion arise,'' Mr. Berger said in the central courtyard of the grand
presidential palace here. ''For example, with regard to the issue of migrants,
and particularly those who have been deported without clear justification.''

The remark, coming during otherwise warm comments by Mr. Berger, reflected the
longstanding anger here over deportation of Guatemalans from the United States,
which has been stoked by a raid last week in which more than 300 workers were
arrested at Michael Bianco Inc., a company in New Bedford, Mass., that provides
vests for the military.

It gave Mr. Bush a taste of what is to come in the next and final stop in his
Latin American tour, to Merida, Mexico, where immigration is expected to be high
on the agenda with President Felipe Calderon.

But with a much smaller population, Guatemala is also a focal point in the
immigration debate -- 10 percent of its population resides in the United States,
according to officials traveling with the president.

While Mr. Bush's agenda here included a proposed new regional effort to attack
the drug syndicates -- a majority of Colombian cocaine that finds its way to the
United States comes through here -- free trade and even adoption, Mr. Bush and
Mr. Berger said immigration was a major topic of discussion.

Newspapers here have been dominated by news of the raid, and stories abound of
families torn apart and children left behind as their parents were sent off to
Texas and New Mexico for deportation, but federal officials say 60 people were
released for humanitarian reasons.

Facing pointed questions from Guatemalan journalists, Mr. Bush stood by the
raid, saying, ''People will be treated with respect, but the United States will
enforce our law.''

Mr. Bush said he disputed ''conspiracies'' relayed by Mr. Berger that children
were taken away from families.

Mr. Bush denied such accounts. ''No es la verdad,'' Mr. Bush said, ''That's not
the way America operates. We're a decent, compassionate country. Those are the
kind of things we do not do. We believe in families, and we'll treat people with
dignity.''

Some of those theories have also held that the raid was executed in advance of
Mr. Bush's visit here, to send a message, an idea that United States officials
denied.

In fact, an American official who was part of Mr. Bush's delegation said the
timing of the Massachusetts raid could not have been worse, and served to
inflame an already emotional issue, adding more passion to anti-Bush protests
here.

''Bush doesn't accept us on his land, so why should we let him on ours,'' said
Armando Chavajay, a protester outside the Mayan spiritual site that Mr. Bush
visited at Iximche.

''They grab us in the U.S. and send us out like criminals,'' he said. ''We are
going there to work and help our families. Now he will know how we feel.''

The protest at Iximche came on top of fierce confrontations throughout the
capital, Guatemala City, in the afternoon, with riot police officers firing tear
gas at protesters who were hurling stones and eggs, setting off fireworks and
burning American flags. One McDonald's restaurant had anti-Bush slurs written on
it.

American officials have suggested that the protests dogging Mr. Bush throughout
his trip are being instigated and paid for by his chief nemesis in the region,
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.

Along the winding road to Iximche, Mr. Bush's motorcade passed hundreds of
indigenous demonstrators who faced off with police and soldiers to oppose the
president's visit to the Mayan spiritual site. At one point protesters managed
to block the president's route with boulders, but soldiers cleared them away in
time for the motorcade to pass.

''Iximche represents the dignity of the Mayan people and we can't have a man who
represents war come to this place,'' said Jorge Morales, a protest leader. ''Our
ancestors have spent hundreds of years on this ground and they will feel his
presence.''

Mr. Morales and other leaders of indigenous groups said they would perform a
ritual cleansing of the negative energy at the site, complete with candles,
flowers and song and dance. ''We will do a thorough spiritual cleaning,'' he
said.''

But after Mr. Bush left, the initial cleanup took a different form. Local people
picked up the kernels of corn that had been thrown on the ground as part of the
welcome of Mr. Bush. With the bulk of the population living in poverty, local
people said they did not want the food to go to waste.

It is that kind of crushing poverty that Mr. Bush said he came here to address.
And it is that kind of poverty that fuels anger at the United States and its
trade policy. Mr. Chavez has tapped that anger in his push for nationalizing
industry and cutting interaction with the United States.

While Mr. Chavez was in Haiti promoting his aid to the region, Mr. Bush was in
the Guatemalan countryside to highlight his aid efforts and to tout the benefits
of trade.

Mr. Bush started his day in Santa Cruz Balanya, visiting a medical operation run
jointly by the United States and Guatemalan militaries. On another stop, in a
traditional, embroidered jacket, Mr. Bush helped load crates of lettuce onto a
truck at a packing station in the village of Chirijuyu. The station was operated
by Labradores Mayas, a food cooperative that was started by a local farmer who
took advantage of an irrigation system built with a Usaid loan to transform
subsistence farms into commercial enterprises that now distribute to Wal-Mart
Central America and McDonald's.

''Free trade is important,'' Mr. Bush said. ''It's a gateway. It creates jobs in
America and it creates jobs here.''

It was a message Mr. Bush would repeat in fending off criticism of his
free-trade policy, saying at his press briefing with Mr. Berger: ''I also
believe most citizens in Guatemala would rather find meaningful jobs at home
instead of having to travel to a foreign land to work. And therefore, the more
we can enhance prosperity in our neighborhood, the more we can encourage trade
that actually yields jobs and stability.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush shaking hands yesterday in Santa Cruz Balanya,
Guatemala, where he was greeted with a sign saying, ''Welcome President Bush.''
(Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)Map of South America highlighting the President's
tour route: The final stop on President Bush's weeklong trip is Merida, Mexico.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Mexico, Bush Seeks to Bolster Uneasy Alliance

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

DATELINE: MERIDA, Mexico, March 12


Just a few days before President Bush was scheduled to land here on Monday for
bilateral talks, the Mexican Foreign Ministry sent an angry diplomatic note to
the United States.

The note complained that United States Border Patrol agents had crossed the
border and ventured a couple of dozen feet into Mexico to put out a rapidly
spreading brush fire. ''Even in emergency situations, the Mexican authorities
must be notified immediately, without exception,'' the note said.

The incident illustrates just how touchy relations have become between the
United States and Mexico during Mr. Bush's presidency and hints at the
difficulty the American president faces as he tries on this state visit to
revive what many Mexicans see as a moribund partnership.

In large measure, the relationship has stagnated in recent years as Mr. Bush has
failed to deliver on a promise of changing immigration laws to allow more guest
workers, while conservatives in his party have pushed through tougher measures
to control the border, among them a giant wall.

Anti-American sentiment runs high here, with more than half of 1,000 people
surveyed in a recent BBC poll saying they viewed the United States' influence in
the world as mainly negative. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3
percent.

''A lot of what my president will be looking for in Merida is a renewed sense of
purpose,'' said one high-ranking Mexican diplomat.

That frustration was evident as dozens of protesters marched down one of the
main avenues of this tropical city Monday evening, before Mr. Bush arrived,
waving banners depicting him as an imperialist. Mr. Bush's plane landed at 9:10
p.m. and he went to the Hyatt Regency hotel, where he is expected to spend two
nights.

For the United States, there is more at stake in the talks with President Felipe
Calderon, a conservative free-trade advocate, than possible progress on an
age-old list of frictions between the neighbors: drug trafficking, trade
barriers, border security and illegal migration.

Also in play is whether Mr. Calderon is willing or able to become a pro-American
counterweight to Hugo Chavez, the left-wing populist leader of Venezuela who is
using his country's oil wealth to undermine American influence in Latin America.

For political reasons, however, Mr. Calderon has been reluctant to become the
anti-Chavez standard-bearer in public. He said in a recent interview with The
Associated Press, ''I am not interested in playing a role with Bush in that
respect.''

His aides say he wants to mend fences with the United States' antagonists, Cuba
and Venezuela, as well as with the rest of Latin America. ''The United States
has a lot to do to regain respect in Latin America,'' he said.

Still, Mr. Calderon remains the best candidate the United States has for a
strong ally in Latin America. Gordon D. Johndroe, the spokesman for the National
Security Council, said the main purpose of Mr. Bush's visit to Mexico was ''to
show support and confidence in the agenda that President Calderon has laid
out.''

''He's certainly an important regional leader who is making the right policy
choices,'' Mr. Johndroe said.

One trouble for Mr. Bush is that he is a lame-duck president facing an
opposition-controlled Congress. He seems to have little to offer Mr. Calderon
beyond a handshake and a photo in front of Mayan ruins, political analysts say.

The Mexican president would dearly love to see a comprehensive immigration bill
passed that would allow more migrants to work temporarily in the United States
and would offer citizenship to many of the 6.4 million illegal workers already
there. It is unlikely that Mr. Bush can deliver on that now, given the divisions
within his own party on the issue and the approaching presidential election,
political analysts say.

''Bush could have done something to buttress Calderon, but he's going to arrive
with empty hands,'' said Miguel Tinker-Salas, a professor of international
affairs at Pomona College in California.

President Bush has said he still believes he can push an immigration bill
through Congress, working with both parties.

Mexicans had high hopes of a better relationship when Mr. Bush, a former Texas
governor, was elected in 2000, as he promised to push through an
immigration-reform bill.

But those initial hopes have soured over the past six years. Mr. Bush and the
United States Congress not only did nothing to legalize millions of illegal
Mexican immigrants, but took strong actions after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to
strengthen security along the 2,000-mile border. A result has been more walls
and barriers.

Particularly irksome for Mexicans is Congress's decision last year to approve a
700-mile wall. It has left many Mexican politicians and intellectuals wondering
what it is the United States president wants.

''I don't know what his aim is,'' said Senator Ricardo Garcia Cervantes in an
interview with the newspaper Reforma this weekend. ''What I believe is that
there isn't a lot of interest in Latin America.''

Like other Latin Americans, many Mexicans have also grown tired of the
free-trade policies that were trumpeted in the 1990s as the solution to their
economic ills. That sentiment was so strong among the country's poor that voters
came within a hairsbreadth last year of electing a left-wing populist, Andres
Manuel Lopez Obrador.

Now Mr. Calderon has to convince the two-thirds of Mexicans who voted for other
parties that staying the course on free trade and remaining a close United
States ally will work to alleviate poverty, political analysts say.

Since taking office in December, Mr. Calderon has taken several steps aimed in
part at showing Washington he is a willing partner on security and immigration
issues.

He has cracked down on drug cartels, breaking tradition to ship 11 top-level
drug dealers to the United States for prosecution. He has also sent thousands of
police officers and soldiers to restore order in several states where warring
drug cartels had killed hundreds of people, among them dozens of police
officers.

In late February, he also announced plans to create a guest-worker program for
Central American migrants on Mexico's southern border, decriminalize illegal
entry and improve the treatment of illegal migrants. It escaped no one's notice
that the proposals are precisely what Mr. Calderon is seeking from the United
States.

Mr. Bush, meanwhile, ruffled a lot of feathers when he suggested in an interview
with Reforma that the state-owned oil monopoly should be opened to private
investment so it could explore deeper waters for crude.

Selling off all or part of the state monopoly, or even allowing private
investment in it, is a political land mine here that even the most ardent
free-trade conservatives like Mr. Calderon are not willing to step near. The
interior minister immediately squelched speculation that the new president would
consider the idea, but the leftist leader, Mr. Lopez Obrador, leapt on it,
saying ''one doesn't sell the fatherland.''

Beyond help with changing United States immigration laws, Mr. Calderon is likely
to bring up the possibility of tinkering with the North American Free Trade
Agreement to protect farmers who produce corn and beans.

He is also likely to suggest expanding the role of a development bank created
under the 13-year-old accord so it can finance projects in southern Mexico. For
a year, as a candidate and now president, Mr. Calderon's mantra has been that
the solution to illegal migration is to attract more investment to Mexico;
expanding the bank's role is one small way to do that, his aides say.

Other issues likely to come up are the steady flow of arms from the United
States into Mexico as well as the skyrocketing cost of American corn because of
new ethanol plants.

Mr. Bush is likely to seek a continuation of the strong diplomatic support the
United States enjoyed from the previous administration, that of President
Vicente Fox. Mr. Fox backed the United States to the hilt in its feuds with Mr.
Chavez and its attempt to create a free trade zone throughout the Americas.

But some Mexican political leaders and opinion makers are now expressing the
belief that Mr. Bush does not understand the depth of anti-American sentiment,
nor the prospects for a left-wing populist taking over here in the near future,
as nearly happened last year.

Some are talking about a need for greater United States assistance to help Mr.
Calderon make the free-trade model work to alleviate poverty.

Rossana Fuentes-Berain, the opinion page editor for the newspaper El Universal,
points out that more than half the country survives on $4 a day. With help, she
says, Mexico could go the route of Portugal and become prosperous in a short
time. Without it, Mexico might begin to resemble Pakistan, she said.

''We must be honest, there are a lot of predators that are rooting for President
Felipe Calderon's presidency to go sour,'' she said. ''They will come back with
an 'I told you so' story, with a 'free markets don't work for us' tale, with
'throw the baby out with the water' advice. 'Let us build the anti-American wall
ourselves,' they will say. And people will listen.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters in front of the American Embassy in Mexico City
yesterday held signs saying ''out with Bush'' and ''the fatherland is not for
sale.'' (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing New England: Massachusetts: Release Of Workers Is Sought

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 125 words


The commissioner of state social services called for the release of 21 factory
workers arrested in an immigration raid last week, saying many had children with
no one else to care for them. They were among 361 people taken in to custody
after a raid at a factory that makes equipment and apparel for the military.
Many of the suspected illegal immigrants were shipped to detention centers in
Texas. Advocates had said the raid created a ''humanitarian crisis.'' The
commissioner, Harry Spence, said the detainees he wanted released had children
ages 2 to 16, all of whom were believed to have been born in the United States.
Immigration officials in Texas were releasing 9 of the 21, said Russ Knocke,
spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 15, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Ono's Ex-Driver Is Allowed To Leave U.S.
Voluntarily

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 126 words


A federal immigration judge signed an order yesterday that allows Yoko Ono's
former driver, who pleaded guilty to charges of trying to extort money from her,
to leave the United States voluntarily rather than be deported. Judge Alan A.
Vomacka's action allows the driver, Koral Karsan, 50, to return to his native
Turkey without further legal proceedings. Mr. Karsan has been in the custody of
the Department of Homeland Security since his plea on Feb. 16 to attempted grand
larceny. He was accused of trying to blackmail Ms. Ono, the widow of John
Lennon, for $2 million, and threatening to release embarrassing recordings and
photos of her and possibly have her killed if she did not pay him. He was
sentenced to 60 days in jail, which he had already served.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Immigrant Advocate Pleads Guilty To Fraud

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON; Compiled by Denise M. Fuhs

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 98 words


A Bronx woman who was an advocate for Central American and Caribbean immigrants
pleaded guilty yesterday in Federal District Court in Manhattan to defrauding
immigrants of more than $1 million, prosecutors said. The woman, Maria Elena
Maximo, charged immigrants $500 to $2,500 to apply for work permits and green
cards for which they were not eligible, the prosecutors said. In some cases,
they said, her faulty applications led to deportation proceedings. Ms. Maximo
pleaded guilty to two counts of mail fraud and faces a maximum of 20 years in
prison for each count.    WILLIAM GLABERSON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


A front-page article last Saturday about the shared grief of Muslim Malian
immigrants in New York following a fire that killed members of two families
misspelled the surname of the owner of Makbarat As-Salaam, a cemetery in
Millstone, N.J., where some of the victims were eventually buried. He is Anthony
Suleiman Sparno, not Spano. (Mr. Sparno, known as Tony, also uses Suleiman as a
surname.)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Wrongly Held in '02 Italy Terror Raid Wins Damages

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: ROME, March 16


Less than half a year after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Italian police
suddenly swooped up 15 immigrants in connection with a murky plot to attack the
American Embassy in Rome with chemical agents. Two years later the case
collapsed in court.

But now, one of the 15 has been awarded $132,000 for wrongful detention, the
first person to be remunerated for being falsely arrested under an antiterrorism
law introduced soon after 9/11.

An appeals court in Rome awarded the payment to Abdelmoname Ben Khalifa Mansour,
a Tunisian immigrant who was arrested in Rome in March 2002 on charges of
belonging to a group with links to Al Qaeda. Mr. Mansour, now 37, spent a year
and a half in jail before being exonerated.

The ruling, which was made in early February and not widely reported, has
encouraged other terrorism suspects who say they have been wrongfully detained
and has been seized on by critics as evidence that the government's
antiterrorism campaign has been overzealous and ineffective.

For Mr. Mansour, the arrest confirmed his darker impressions of Italy. Soon
after his arrival here in 1990, he was hit by a car and permanently disabled; he
cannot stand straight and his body trembles.

''I'm sick and tired,'' he said in an interview. ''I came to Italy because I'd
wanted to change my life, marry, have children, do nice things,'' he said. ''I
guess it wasn't to be.''

Other former suspects are also likely to seek damages, said Carlo Corbucci, one
of Mr. Mansour's lawyers, who is also representing three Egyptian citizens
living in Anzio who were wrongfully held for nearly 19 months on terrorism
charges in a separate case and now want money from the state. Lawyers for other
defendants say they also plan to sue.

The government has defended its policies, saying that they have averted
potential attacks. In a November interview, Interior Minister Giuliano Amato
said the Italian police had guaranteed ''Italy's protection from jihadist
forces.''

''We've worked well to stem possible attacks,'' he said.

Mr. Mansour was arrested in the early hours of March 1, 2002, in a makeshift
mosque where he worked as the caretaker, near the Termini train station in Rome.
The prosecution's case brought together three separate investigations; in all,
nine Moroccans and six other immigrants were arrested and charged with trying to
assault the embassy, possibly by releasing a poisonous chemical in the water
supply.

Coming so soon after the attacks on the United States, the Italian case prompted
alarmist headlines. ''Al Qaeda attempt to poison Rome's water supply foiled''
read one headline in a British paper. ''The attack on the U.S. Embassy was just
hours away,'' said another in the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera.

The trial opened in May 2003. In April 2004, all the defendants were acquitted.
The case ''was a great loss of time, a waste of resources, men and energies,''
Bianca Stancanelli, a well-known journalist, wrote in ''Fifteen Innocent
Terrorists,'' a book on the investigation published last year. Her analysis
suggests that investigators were stretching the facts to bolster their case.

''You have to look at the investigation as something that was meant to solidify
the axis between Bush and Berlusconi, showing America that we were faithful
allies and ready to protect everyone from everything,'' Ms. Stancanelli said in
a telephone interview, referring to the Italian prime minister at the time,
Silvio Berlusconi.

During the trial, the prosecution's case unraveled. The evidence centered on a
mysterious red substance found hidden in a locked cabinet, maps of Rome showing
the American and British Embassies marked in red, a hole chipped out of a
utility tunnel underneath the American Embassy, and hours of wiretaps with
murderous murmurs.

The red substance, trumpeted by newspapers as a cyanide compound, was potassium
ferricyanide, a readily available substance used in photography. The maps had
been marked to indicate the site of a restaurant in the embassy district. The
hole was too small for a normal-sized person to crawl through. The wiretapped
conversations, examined by experts, were mostly indecipherable.

Since Italy's campaign against terrorism began, there have been many
high-profile sweeps and hundreds of arrests, but few convictions.

In its annual report on crime issued in August, the Interior Ministry said that
in the previous 12 months more than 21,000 possible targets had been
investigated, nearly 83,000 people had been stopped and identified, and 618 had
been arrested. Expulsion procedures had been initiated against 2,000 foreigners,
of whom 55 were expelled. According to statistics provided by the prosecutor's
office in Milan, there have been about 80 convictions in Italy related to
international terrorism since the antiterrorism law was passed in December 2001.
In many cases, the charges have been minor ones.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Freehold Township: Protest By Inmates

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 96 words


A peaceful protest by more than 100 people who were being held at the Monmouth
County jail while awaiting immigration hearings ended last night after several
hours, officials said. The inmates were protesting conditions in the jail.
Undersheriff Ted Freeman told The Asbury Park Press that 132 inmates, about 10
percent of those in the jail, began refusing to eat or take part in activities
because they wanted more food, Spanish-speaking officers and repairs for a
broken television. Undersheriff Freeman said inmates were given three meals a
day and had access to a commissary.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Family of Slain Pizza Worker Is Giving Up on Life in U.S.

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 600 words


The wake yesterday for a pizzeria employee murdered last week in Greenwich
Village signified the end of many things for his companion and two brothers.
They were to return his body to Mexico today and have abandoned their quest to
establish a new life in the United States.

The worker, Alfredo Romero, who was killed on Wednesday along with two auxiliary
police officers by a man on a murderous rampage, was an illegal immigrant, as
are Mr. Romero's companion, Martha Pioquinto; his brothers, Marino and Miguel
Angel; and Marino's wife. They did not seek an arrangement with the authorities
to return here after burying him.

Ms. Pioquinto, who had been packing suitcases all day at her apartment in
Sunnyside, Queens, said that even if she could, returning to New York would be
too painful. ''The only thing I want is for this day to be over,'' she said in
Spanish. ''Even if we had visas, we wouldn't come back.''

Ramon Xilotl, Mexico's consul general in New York, who arranged for Mr. Romero's
remains to be flown back to Puebla, Mexico, and for plane tickets and emergency
passports for Ms. Pioquinto and Mr. Romero's family, said they had no plans to
return to the United States.

The only way for the family to return would be ''by talking to a senator who
would grant permission,'' Mr. Xilotl said. Given that they were to leave today,
he said, that would be ''practically impossible.'' He added that the consulate
had promised to return Mr. Romero's belongings from the night of the shooting to
his family in Puebla once the police had completed their investigation.

Reporters, some from Spanish-language news media, stood outside the white stucco
Rivera Funeral Home in Corona, Queens, as the wake began late yesterday
afternoon. The air was wet and cold, and the gray sky matched the color of the
mounds of snow lining the sidewalk.

An hour after a lone bouquet of flowers was brought into the funeral parlor, it
was announced that Ms. Pioquinto, who recently suffered a miscarriage, would not
attend.

More than a dozen friends and relatives did attend, as did the commissioner of
the Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs, Guillermo Linares, and several police
officers and other officials. Other Mexican immigrants also came to help the
family and make small donations.

''It doesn't cost anything to give 10 or 20 dollars'' said Pascual Vargas, 19, a
cook who had heard about Mr. Romero's death and helped organize a small donation
with his fellow kitchen workers. ''It's not a lot, but it's better than
nothing.''

The wake was held on the same day that Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly
announced that the Police Department would establish an auxiliary police review
committee to examine the recruitment, selection and training of auxiliary police
officers.

''The murders of Auxiliary Police Officers Nicholas Pekearo and Eugene Marshalik
require that we undertake this comprehensive review to improve the safety of our
volunteers,'' Mr. Kelly said.

''I've asked the committee to report in 90 days with recommendations to improve
the safety, effectiveness and professionalism of the auxiliary police program.''

The officers were gunned down on Sullivan Street by David R. Garvin, a bartender
and sometime filmmaker, after he fatally shot Mr. Romero in De Marco's Pizzeria
on West Houston Street. Mr. Garvin was then killed by the police.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg did not attend yesterday's wake, though his office
said that the city's Community Assistance Unit had left several telephone
messages for Ms. Pioquinto. Ms. Pioquinto said that she had not received the
messages.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marino Romero, left, at the wake for his brother Alfredo
yesterday in Corona, Queens, with Froylan Castillo Rodriguez, a family friend.
(Photo by Jeremy Lange for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suffolk Lawmakers Vote No On Bill to Curb Day Laborers

BYLINE: By NICOLE COTRONEO

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y., March 20


The Suffolk County Legislature defeated a bill Tuesday that would have prevented
day laborers looking for work from congregating near public roads. It was a
measure that the county executive, Steve Levy, supported in part as a way to
deal with illegal immigrants who, he said, threaten the quality of life on Long
Island.

Although the bill -- defeated in a 10-6 vote, with one abstention and one
legislator absent -- did not specifically mention day laborers, opponents called
it an anti-Hispanic, anti-immigrant measure that was couched as road-safety
legislation.

''While this bill was never meant to be a panacea, it would have been another
tool in the arsenal to combat safety concerns that have surfaced due to the
contractor/day laborer activity on certain county roads,'' Mr. Levy said
following the vote.

Majority leader Jon Cooper, who voted against the bill and represents the 18th
Legislative District, questioned the basic premise of the bill. He said accident
statistics that the bill's sponsoring legislator, Jack Eddington of the Seventh
District, presented in support of the measure were misleading.

Mr. Cooper said data he obtained from the county's Department of Public Works
revealed there were more recorded accidents at intersections where day laborers
are not known to congregate than at those where they regularly solicit work.

Alexander Gutierrez, the chairman of Suffolk County's Hispanic Advisory Board,
said his panel interpreted the legislation as being aimed at Hispanics, and he
said he feared passing the bill would encourage racist violence that has
occurred in the past in towns like Farmingville, where the day laborer issue has
been heatedly debated.

Legislator Elie Mystal of the 15th District, who is an immigrant himself,
agreed, ''The law will only create more hatred against this group. That's why
I'm voting against this law.''

Still, Mr. Mystal said, he sympathized with citizens in towns where day laborers
congregate. ''People are afraid of going out of their homes,'' he said. ''A
permanent solution needs to be put in place.''

Debbie Felber, president of the Selden Civic Association, said in her town,
motorists are afraid when ''50 to 100 people run into the road when a truck
pulls over to be the first in line.''

Ms. Felber suggested that the Legislature should target the contractors who
employ illegal immigrants and the landlords who rent to them. She said day
laborers were ''being victimized by the contractors and landlords who use them
for their own gain.''

After the bill was defeated, Ms. Felber said she was disappointed. ''I think it
would've sent a message to the community of support,'' she said.

Before casting his vote in favor of the bill, Legislator Joseph Caracappa
criticized his peers, saying they were ignoring their constituents.

''Arguing against this bill is absurd,'' he said. ''All you have to do is go
into the communities affected, and you'll know. These people pay our salaries,
and we have a quick ability to forget once we get elected who puts us here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Paradise For Criminals Deported To Jamaica

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1017 words

DATELINE: KINGSTON, Jamaica


One person's dream of being plucked from life in the United States and plopped
down in the middle of winter on a beach in Jamaica is another person's
nightmare. Just ask Noel J. Bryan, who had a grimace on his face recently as he
cursed his fate in the sunshine.

''I guess some people might think this is nice,'' he said of the ocean view he
has at a run-down resort outside Kingston where he is staying. ''There are
people who would want to take a vacation here. But not me. For me, this is
misery.''

Everyone at the resort agreed, for all of the dozen or so guests were
Jamaican-born criminals arrested on the streets of the United States and then,
after lengthy prison sentences there, deported.

There was a bank robber and people convicted of drug offenses. All were staying
at the resort temporarily in exchange for manual labor.

Mr. Bryan left Jamaica at age 6 and lived for 40 years in the United States,
even serving several years in the Army, he said. He is not sure if his late
father became an American citizen and naturalized him.

Unable to prove his status when he was arrested in 2005 for cocaine possession,
he was sent to prison and then deported in January to the island of his birth,
where he has no relatives and does not speak the local patois. ''It's like being
on another planet,'' he said of island life.

Making Mr. Bryan's experience all the more difficult, deportees are regarded as
the lowest of the low in Jamaica. Not only are most of them ex-convicts, but
they also have another serious strike against them: blowing their chance to make
it overseas.

The United States, together with Britain and Canada, has deported 33,268
Jamaicans over the past decade and a half, with the numbers rising significantly
in recent years as all three countries toughened immigration laws.

When deportees arrive, they find politicians and police officers blaming them
for the island's spiraling crime, and neighbors and even relatives turning their
backs on them.

''We are like the scum of the earth,'' said Troy McFarlane, 36, a double
deportee who was sent home by American immigration authorities in 2001 after a
drug arrest and sent home again in January after he had sneaked back into the
United States.

Compassion for their plight is in short supply in the upper reaches of Jamaica's
government. ''We have intelligence that many of these criminal deportees come
back and are at the center of some of the criminal organizations here,'' said
Peter David Phillips, the security minister.

''In an ideal world, I wouldn't accept any deportees,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''But
I acknowledge our obligations under international law.''

Still, Jamaica's politicians frequently press deporting countries to slow the
flow. Their argument is that deportees often find their way back to the
countries that deported them even more hardened in lives of crime. And if they
stay in Jamaica, many operate international criminal rings that reach back to
the deporting countries, local police officials and politicians say.

The deportees are a dislocated lot. ''Many persons pointed to the fact that they
have little or no connection to Jamaica and thus see themselves as outcasts who
are not wanted in the deporting country, but who do not have a home to which to
return,'' said a recent study of deportees prepared for Jamaica's government.

The concern about so many deportees returning is one issue on which Jamaica's
two parties agree. ''It seems to me unfair to have to live with the failures of
another society,'' argued Bruce Golding, leader of the opposition, who argued
that many of the deportees had picked up their criminal ways in the United
States.

The United States appears largely unmoved by pleas to keep the ex-convicts
there. A study commissioned by the United States Embassy in Kingston in 2005,
carried out by Bernard Headley, a criminologist at the University of the West
Indies, disputed the notion that deportees were largely responsible for
Jamaica's crime woes or that most of them were young innocents when they arrived
in the United States.

''What do they think we're going to do, not deport Jamaicans convicted of
crimes?'' asked one American diplomat who has discussed the issue with Jamaican
officials. He asked for anonymity because he was speaking frankly about his
contacts with a foreign government.

But as that debate rages, deportees have found someone on their side. Every time
a new batch of ex-cons arrives at Norman Manley International Airport, a
50-year-old lay preacher and mother of four is waiting for them.

After their cuffs are removed, Evelyn Mason shakes their hands, feeds them and
helps them call relatives. For those who have no place to go, she helps them
find temporary housing, like the resort where Mr. Bryan is staying.They are wary
of her at first, until she tells her story. Ms. Mason is a three-time deportee.
She said she was thrown out of Britain in 1994 after serving three years and
four months for a variety of drug-related offenses.

Months later, she said, she was tossed out of the United States after
immigration officials in Miami caught her trying to use a fake passport.

Her last deportation came in 2003. She said she had been sneaking into the
United States regularly using fake papers when finally one of the men she was
using to smuggle drugs into the country reported her to authorities. She served
five and a half years in prison, during which time she said she found religion
and changed her ways.

After being sent back to Jamaica for a third time, she remade herself into the
island's leading deportee advocate. Through her organization, Land of My Birth,
she presses for the countries that deport Jamaicans to give them pocket money to
help them get on their feet. She wants a halfway house to help them readjust and
classes to teach them skills.

''I know how they feel because I'm a deportee,'' Ms. Mason said, her gold tooth
sparkling in the sun. ''Now, I'm the deportee who is on the radio and in the
public eye. I'm not ashamed. I don't care that Jamaicans look down on me. I've
changed, and they can too.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Noel J. Bryan working near Kingston, Jamaica, last month, after
being deported from the United States. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawyers Say U.S. Acted in Bad Faith After Immigrant Raid in Massachusetts

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK; Katie Zezima contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, March 21


Lawyers for some of about 350 immigrants arrested this month in a raid on a
leather factory in New Bedford, Mass., appeared before a federal judge
Wednesday, charging that the government had acted in bad faith, moving the
immigrants to detention centers in Texas too quickly and denying them adequate
access to lawyers.

''The government moved them to try to interfere with their rights,'' said
Bernard J. Bonn III, a lawyer representing 178 immigrants who were initially
taken to Fort Devens, a decommissioned Army base in Massachusetts, but flown to
Texas because, federal officials said, the base did not have enough beds. ''They
had 11 months to plan this raid, and after two days they run out of space at
Fort Devens because they needed it for someone else?''

Elizabeth Stevens, a Justice Department lawyer, said that there was no
requirement that detainees be kept in their home state and that the federal
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency gave detainees a window of time to
find lawyers.

''There is no bad faith or furtive action here,'' Ms. Stevens said. ''This is
something I.C.E. told the detainees about, that they had to do based on a lack
of bed space in Massachusetts.''

Judge Richard G. Stearns of Federal District Court did not rule on whether the
immigrants' rights had been violated. He scheduled a hearing in a month and
allowed the lawyers to begin legal discovery.

Later, in a telephone news conference, Robert Sable, executive director of
Greater Boston Legal Services, which is helping to represent many of the
immigrants in a civil lawsuit filed shortly after the March 6 raid, said one
motivation for the suit was to have the immigrants returned to Massachusetts
because the Texas immigration court made it more difficult and expensive for
them to be released on bond. That is especially true, he said, when an
immigrant's relatives are in another state.

Wednesday's hearing was the latest fallout from the raid on Michael Bianco Inc.,
a leather goods factory with a federal contract to make military backpacks.

Although Massachusetts officials were informed of the raid as early as December,
they said that workers from the state's Department of Social Services did not
have early enough access to the immigrants and that some immigrants were
separated from their children, who had to be left with relatives or baby
sitters.

Gov. Deval L. Patrick denounced the federal operation as ''a race to the
airport,'' and members of the state's Congressional delegation met with family
members and friends of the immigrants in a New Bedford church.

''If there is ever an example or a reason for a new immigration bill, and
anybody wants to know why, come to New Bedford,'' Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, said in a letter of complaint to Michael Chertoff,
secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. ''We need to change the broken
immigration system.''

On Tuesday, Mr. Chertoff responded with a letter saying ''I.C.E. took decisive
and proper action'' and ''acted with compassion and only after joint planning
with state officials.''

He wrote, ''Precisely to ensure that children at home or school were not left
unattended, I.C.E. worked closely with the Massachusetts Department of Social
Services before the operation commenced and at every stage of the operation
itself.''

Federal officials said that at least 60 of the immigrants were released on
humanitarian grounds soon after their arrests, largely because they needed to
care for children. An additional 30 were later released for child care or health
reasons. Officials have also said that 55 immigrants had previously been ordered
deported, and 11 had returned illegally.

On Tuesday, state legislators heard testimony about the raid from public safety
and human services officials. They planned to recommend better federal
coordination with states in future raids, although they conceded they could not
impose guidelines on federal agencies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Polygamy, Practiced in Secrecy, Follows Africans to New York

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1644 words


She worked at the Red Lobster in Times Square and lived with her husband near
Yankee Stadium. Yet one night, returning home from her job, Odine D. discovered
that African custom, not American law, held sway over her marriage.

A strange woman was sitting in the living room, and Ms. D.'s husband, a security
guard born in Ghana, introduced her as his other wife.

Devastated, Ms. D., a Guinean immigrant who insisted that her last name be
withheld, said she protested: ''I can't live with the woman in my house -- we
have only two bedrooms.'' Her husband cited Islamic precepts allowing a man to
have up to four wives, and told her to get used to it. And she tried to obey.

Polygamy in America, outlawed in every state but rarely prosecuted, has long
been associated with Mormon splinter groups out West, not immigrants in New
York. But a fatal fire in a row house in the Bronx on March 7 revealed its
presence here, in a world very different from the suburban Utah setting of ''Big
Love,'' the HBO series about polygamists next door.

The city's mourning for the dead -- a woman and nine children in two families
from Mali -- has been followed by a hushed double take at the domestic
arrangements described by relatives: Moussa Magassa, the Mali-born American
citizen who owned the house and was the father of five children who perished,
had two wives in the home, on different floors. Both survived.

No one knows how prevalent polygamy is in New York. Those who practice it have
cause to keep it secret: under immigration law, polygamy is grounds for
exclusion from the United States.

Under state law, bigamy can be punished by up to four years in prison,

No agency is known to collect data on polygamous unions, which typically take
shape over time and under the radar, often with religious ceremonies overseas
and a visitor's visa for the wife, arranged by other relatives. Some men have
one wife in the United States and others abroad.

But the Magassas clearly are not an isolated case. Immigration to New York and
other American cities has soared from places where polygamy is lawful and
widespread, especially from West African countries like Mali, where demographic
surveys show that 43 percent of women are in polygamous marriages.

And the picture that emerges from dozens of interviews with African immigrants,
officials and scholars of polygamy is of a clandestine practice that probably
involves thousands of New Yorkers.

''It's difficult, but one accepts it because it's our religion,'' said Doussou
Traore, 52, president of an association of Malian women in New York, who married
an older man with two other wives who remain in Mali. ''Our mothers accepted it.
Our grandmothers accepted it. Why not us?''

Other women spoke bitterly of polygamy. They said their participation was
dictated by an African culture of female subjugation and linked polygamy to
female genital cutting and domestic violence. That view is echoed by most
research on plural marriages, including studies of West African immigrants in
France, where the government estimates that 120,000 people live in 20,000
polygamous families.

''The woman is in effect the slave of the man,'' said a stylish Guinean
businesswoman in her 40s who, like many women interviewed in Harlem and the
Bronx, spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''If you protest, your husband will
hit you, and if you call the police, he's going to divorce you, and the whole
community will scorn you.''

''Even me,'' she added. ''My husband went to find another wife in Africa, and he
has the right to do that. They tell you nothing, until one afternoon he says,
'O.K., your co-wife arrives this evening.' ''

Men, in contrast, tended to play down the existence of polygamy, if they were
willing to discuss it at all.

Dr. Ousseiny Coulibaly, 36, a gynecologist, was born in Mali and educated in
France, where polygamy has long been an explosive immigration and women's rights
issue. Yet he said he was unaware of any cases among his West African patients
at Harlem Hospital Center.

''I'm not asking,'' he said. ''I'm not even suspecting it. There might be so
many things I don't know.''

Don't-ask-don't-know policies prevail in many agencies that deal with immigrant
families in New York, perhaps because there is no framework for addressing
polygamy in a city that prides itself on tolerance of religious, cultural and
sexual differences -- and on support for human rights and equality.

Last summer, when a nonprofit agency in the Bronx surveyed the needs of the
sub-Saharan immigrants in its child care and literacy programs, questionnaires
asked about interest in marriage counseling, but not about polygamy.

''This is a very private community,'' said Rose Rivera, director of Head Start
at the agency, the Women's Housing and Employment Development Corporation, which
largely relies on the fathers to translate for the mothers. ''They're not really
ready to trust us.''

Yet on Monday, two Gambian women with children in the program acknowledged, when
asked by a reporter, that polygamy was a given in their lives. Both described
themselves as ''first wives,'' married at 16, who joined their husbands in New
York in the 1990s, never having attended school.

One, now 36, with three children, said her husband was betrothed to a second
wife in Gambia whom he would soon bring to the Bronx. Protest was pointless.
''They won't listen,'' she said. ''Whether you like it or not, they will
marry.''

Islam is often cited as the authority that allows polygamy. But in Africa, the
practice is a cultural tradition that crosses religious lines, while some Muslim
lands elsewhere sharply restrict it. The Koran says a man should not take more
than one wife if he cannot treat them all equally -- a very high bar, many
Muslims say.

Ms. Traore, of the Malian women's group, cited two prosperous households in
Bergen County, in New Jersey, that seemed to pass the test.

''They get along very well,'' she said of the wives in one home, who married
their husband in Africa at the same time. ''It's extraordinary. When they come
to our celebrations they dress the same, the same outfit, the same jewels. The
husband is completely fair.''

Still, since only one wife could have entered the country as a spouse, the other
is probably more vulnerable to deportation, she acknowledged.

More typical, many immigrants said, are cramped apartments in the Bronx with
many children underfoot, clashes between jealous co-wives and domestic violence.
And if the household breaks up, the wives' legal status is murky at best, with
little case law to guide decisions on marital property or benefits.

Men, too, can end up in polygamous marriages reluctantly, driven by the dictates
of clan and culture. That seems to be the case for the husband of Ms. D., the
Guinean restaurant worker. Efforts to reach him for this article failed, but as
Ms. D. tells it, he insisted he was just as surprised as she was when his first
wife, left behind in Ghana, showed up six years ago.

Their match, like many African marriages, had been made by their families before
he left for New York. Years later, he met and courted Ms. D. in the Bronx,
saying his relationship with his Ghanaian wife was over.

But a year after he married Ms. D. in Guinea and they returned to the Bronx,
relatives arranged for a visa for his first wife to join them.

''In Africa, women accept things like that,'' Ms. D. said. ''Here, the
apartments are too small.''

She recalled terrible fights during the three months they all lived together.
The conflicts continued after she paid for the first wife to move to another
apartment. For eight months, the husband shuttled between the two, but he became
abusive, she said. And when Ms. D was five months pregnant, he stopped showing
up.

Like many West African women, Ms. D. had been subjected to genital cutting as a
child, making sex painful. The other wife had not been cut.

''It's not life, your man sharing a bed with another woman,'' Ms. D. said.
''You're always thinking in your head, 'does he love me?' ''

Such stories of polygamy, New York style, are typically shared by women only in
whispered conversations in laundries and at hair-braiding salons. With no legal
immigration status and no right to asylum from polygamy, many are afraid to
expose their husbands to arrest or deportation, which could dishonor and
impoverish their families here and in Africa.

But Aminata Kante, an immigrant from Ivory Coast who found help for herself and
Ms. D. at Sanctuary for Families, an agency for battered women, uses her own
story to urge rebellion.

Wed at 15 in Ivory Coast, over the telephone, to a New York City taxi driver
thousands of miles away, Ms. Kante was delivered to her groom on a false
passport. She said she endured his abuse for years, bore three children, turned
over her paycheck from work as a health aide, and tried harder to appease him
when he sent two of the children to Africa.

But something snapped, she said, when he announced that he had taken a teenage
second wife, also married, just as she had been, over the phone -- a valid
wedding in Ivory Coast. Ms. Kante left him. Relatives pressed her to return.
Uncles warned that she would be branded a bad woman, and that the stigma would
follow her children in Africa. Without papers, vulnerable to deportation, she
ended up in a homeless shelter.

But now, at 30, she tells the story in the warm glow of her own living room, her
children restored to her, and a green card secured, through unusual legal
efforts by lawyers at Sanctuary.

''I know a lady who lives with her husband and another woman in one room, a
two-bedroom, with 11 kids,'' she said. ''I tell her, she has to move -- it's not
a life.'' And her own husband? His second wife is 23 now, with three children.
And recently, Ms. Kante said, he married a third.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: After her husband announced he had taken a second wife, Aminata
Kante said, she left him and sought help from an agency for battered women.
(Photo by Shiho Fukada for The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 Aminata Kante left her husband after he took a second wife. (Photo by Shiho
Fukada for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant Segment by Radio's 'Jersey Guys' Draws Fire

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, March 22


Craig Carton and Ray Rossi think mental illness is hilarious and Asian-Americans
are best mocked with sing-song Chinese accents. The men, hosts of an afternoon
radio show called ''The Jersey Guys'' that is heard here on WKXW (101.5 FM),
favor adjectives for politicians that have to be bleeped out.

Two weeks ago, Mr. Carton and Mr. Rossi started ''Operation Rat a Rat/La Cucha
Gotcha,'' a listener-participation game that encourages people to turn in
friends, neighbors and ''anyone suspicious'' to immigration authorities.

They introduced the segment with mariachi music and set the campaign to end on
May 5 (Cinco de Mayo), a well-known Mexican holiday.

At the risk of stating the obvious, the phrase ''La Cucha Gotcha'' is meant to
evoke the Spanish word for cockroach.

Here in New Jersey, where 15 percent of the population is Hispanic, reaction to
the show has not exactly been positive.

At a news conference Thursday, Hispanic elected officials and others condemned
the campaign as ''dehumanizing,'' ''poisonous'' and ''idiotic,'' threatening
boycotts of the show's advertisers unless the Jersey Guys apologize.

''Scapegoating and stereotyping Latinos does nothing but give bigoted
individuals a platform to make ethnic slurs and racist comments,'' said
Assemblyman Wilfredo Caraballo of Newark, calling the campaign a ''publicity
stunt'' that could incite violence against Hispanics.

But anyone expecting an apology was sorely disappointed when Mr. Carton and Mr.
Rossi held an on-air news conference a few hours after Mr. Caraballo's comments.
Seeking to profit from the recently ignited firestorm, the Jersey Guys gathered
a corps of journalists, most of them Hispanic, in their Trenton studios and
gleefully refused to back down. They insisted that the campaign was not
anti-Hispanic and that the phrase ''La Cucha Gotcha'' was inoffensive, likening
the song ''La Cucaracha'' to a lullaby or a patriotic standard like ''Yankee
Doodle Dandy.''

After calling Assemblyman Caraballo a ''pathetic liar,'' Mr. Carton repeated his
call to deport every illegal immigrant in the country. ''If you're here
illegally, you are breaking the law -- no better, no worse than the guy who robs
the liquor store or the guy who waits to case your house out and robs you of
your belongings,'' he said. ''You are a criminal.''

He went on to blame illegal immigrants for the state's high property taxes,
problems with uninsured drivers and violent crime. He also hinted that illegal
immigrants were more likely to become terrorists. ''Our country is at war right
now, and it's very important that we protect our kids, and one of the ways you
can protect them is to not let undocumented immigrants into this country,'' he
said.

This is not the pair's first foray into public eye-poking. Two years ago, the
Jersey Guys infuriated Gov. Richard J. Codey by making fun of his wife's bout
with depression. A few months later they made a few enemies in the state's
sizable Asian-American community by mocking Chinese people and saying that
foreigners should not be allowed to dictate the outcome of an ''American
election.'' They later apologized for their remarks about Asians, saying that
they were just entertainers and that no one should take them seriously.

This time, however, the men say their campaign against illegal immigrants is
anything but showmanship. ''This operation is not a game, not a contest,'' Mr.
Carton said. ''Our goal is to make New Jersey and the United States of America
safer places to live.''

Judging from the cascade of congratulatory calls, the men have tapped into an
angry vein in the state, where, according to 2005 census figures, 20 percent of
all residents are foreign born, the third highest rate in the country. ''This is
an invasion,'' said one caller, Carmen Perez, who said she had come to this
country as a 3-year-old. ''I would deport most of them.''

Considering the Jersey Guys' lack of contrition and the anger among Latino
advocates, ''La Cucha Gotcha'' is likely to spark an even larger backlash. That
may or may not be a bad thing for the station, which, like the entire broadcast
radio industry, has been struggling to compete against the twin scourges of
electronic music downloads and satellite radio. Eric Johnson, the station's
program director, declined to comment, saying he wanted to give the last word to
the Jersey Guys.

But Jack Plunkett, an analyst who follows broadcast radio, said the station
might want to check out recent marketing data indicating that Hispanics are the
fastest-growing group in the country, with spending power of $700 billion a
year, a figure that is expected to triple by 2010. ''These guys might not
realize it,'' he said, ''but they could be shooting themselves in the foot.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray Rossi, left, and Craig Carton yesterday in Trenton, where
they held a news conference about their campaign against illegal immigrants.
(Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Tracking Of Foreigners Is Lax, Report Says

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 105 words


Teams assigned to make sure foreigners leave after being ordered out of the
United States are grappling with a backlog of more than 600,000 cases and cannot
accurately account for the whereabouts of those classified as ''fugitive
aliens,'' the government said. A report by the Homeland Security Department's
inspector general said the effectiveness of teams assigned to find the fugitives
had been hampered by ''insufficient detention capacity, limitations of an
immigration database and inadequate working space.'' About 5.4 percent of the
estimated 11.5 million illegal immigrants in the United States are believed to
be fugitives.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Becoming U.S. Citizens At High Rate

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 576 words


Legal immigrants in the United States have opted to become American citizens in
historically high numbers in the last decade, according to a study published
yesterday by the Pew Hispanic Center.

The number of naturalized citizens in the United States population in 2005 was
12.8 million, a record high, the study found. The number reflected not only a
growing number of legal immigrants coming to the United States, but also a
growing eagerness among them to adopt American citizenship, the study reported.

Of all the immigrants now living legally in the United States, 52 percent are
naturalized citizens, while others are permanent residents or have some other
immigration status. The last time that citizens made up more than half of all
legal immigrants was in 1980, the study found.

The research, which is based primarily on census data, was done by Jeffrey S.
Passel, a demographer at the Pew center, a nonpartisan organization based in
Washington.

''It is clear that today's legal immigrants are signing on to a closer
relationship with the U.S. than was the case a decade or two ago,'' Mr. Passel
concluded.

For the first time, European immigrants are no longer the largest group of those
who choose to become citizens, according to the study. Over the past decade,
they were outnumbered by new citizens who came originally from Latin America or
Asia. In the decade before 2005 (the last date when figures were available),
nearly 2.4 million immigrants from Latin America became citizens, more than from
any other region, the study found.

The willingness of recent immigrants to integrate into American society has been
hotly debated as Congress has grappled with changes to the immigration system.
To become citizens, legal immigrants must be over 18 and show they have lived
continuously in the United States for five years. They have to pass background
and health checks, as well as tests to show that they speak basic English and
have a minimum knowledge of American laws and history.

There is no limit on the number of eligible immigrants who can become citizens,
gaining the right to vote and ensuring they can never be deported. Illegal
immigrants, estimated to number about 12 million people, are not eligible to
apply for citizenship.

While the number of legal immigrants in the United States increased by 30
percent in the decade after 1995, the study found, the number of naturalized
American citizens climbed by 73 percent.

''Ultimately people do want to become full members of the society, and these
numbers show that it is happening,'' said Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at the
Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan center in Washington. Ms. Meissner was
commissioner of what was then the Immigration and Naturalization Service for
seven years in the Clinton administration.

Mexicans showed the biggest increase in naturalizations over the decade, with
the number of Mexican immigrants who became citizens increasing by 144 percent.
But Mexicans are still less likely to become citizens than many other immigrant
groups, the study found.

The report does not explain why naturalization rates have increased. Ms.
Meissner said the intensifying political debate, in which many groups have
called for deporting illegal immigrants, was a factor. ''We know that when
immigrants feel threatened, and they feel they might be in danger of losing
rights of one kind or another, they are more likely to pursue citizenship,'' she
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Citizen Immigrants''The number of naturalized citizens has
risen 75 percent in the last 10 years, a result mostly of more immigrants
choosing to become citizens.Graph tracks Naturalized Foreign-Born Citizens since
1995. (Source by Pew Hispanic Center)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boat Carrying 100 Haitians Beaches in Florida

BYLINE: By TERRY AGUAYO

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 28


More than 100 Haitian refugees landed on a South Florida beach early Wednesday
after their overcrowded sailboat ran aground. One refugee died while trying to
get to shore, the authorities said.

The group reached Hallandale Beach early Wednesday morning aboard a 35-foot
wooden sailboat, said Petty Officer Dana Warr, a Coast Guard spokesman.

''The boat made it to the beach and then everybody jumped off,'' Petty Officer
Warr said, adding that the boat was ''grossly overloaded.''

Fourteen of the refugees were taken to a local hospital to be treated for
dehydration. Five were admitted and were in ''generally good condition,'' said
Kerting Baldwin, a spokeswoman for Memorial Regional Hospital. The others were
treated and released, Ms. Baldwin said.

It was the largest landing of Haitians on American soil since October 2002, when
more than 200 Haitians made it to shore at Key Biscayne, Fla., Petty Officer
Warr said.

Zachary Mann, a spokesman for Customs and Border Protection, said some of the
Haitians told officials that the group had been at sea for approximately 22
days. Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
said the agency suspected that the refugees were smuggled in and was conducting
an investigation.

''The message is that anyone who takes to the seas should think twice because it
can be deadly, as we have seen today,'' Ms. Gonzalez said.

The refugees, including 12 minors, were being processed Wednesday afternoon by
Customs and Border Protection, Mr. Mann said, adding that once the processing
was completed, the refugees would be transferred to a facility and held until a
decision was made about their future.

''In general, most of them face removal,'' Mr. Mann said.

The Coast Guard interdicted 769 Haitians at sea last year and 10 so far this
year, Petty Officer Warr said.

Haitians who illegally enter the United States are usually returned to Haiti,
while Cubans who reach American soil are allowed to remain in the country
without detention while their asylum claims are processed because of the
possibility of persecution if they are returned.

''We fear these people will be deported right away,'' said Marleine Bastien,
executive director of Haitian Women of Miami, an advocacy group. ''These
Haitians, just like the Cubans, should be afforded the right to due process.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: This ''grossly overloaded'' boat brought Haitians to Hallandale
Beach. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 1, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Lam by the Thousands, Pursued by the Dozens

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 291 words


THE math isn't pretty.

As of February, there were an estimated 636,000 ''fugitive aliens'' in the
United States -- foreigners who have ignored orders to leave the country. They
may have entered illegally and been caught (about 60 percent of all fugitives),
or they may have visited legally but then overstayed their visas or committed
crimes.

In any case, they are on the government's list and the government wants them
out. Taken together, they would rank as America's 18th-largest city, ahead of
Baltimore, Boston and Seattle.

Washington (the 27th-largest city) has deputized a force of about 318 officers
in the Department of Homeland Security to track and apprehend the fugitives -- a
backlog of roughly 2,000 fugitives per officer.

Last week, Homeland Security's inspector general said the department was not on
course to overcome that backlog. The number of fugitives nearly doubled in five
years after the September 2001 attacks.

John P. Torres, the director of detention and removal operations for Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, said his workers were making progress. That effort
began in 2003 with a few dozen officers, and with time and resources, he says,
it can tackle the backlog.

Last year, officials ended their practice of ''catch and release,'' in which
only about a third of alleged immigration violators caught were detained, for
lack of housing. Most of those released did not show up for court dates and
became fugitives. Now, Mr. Torres said, virtually all are detained.

No one really knows how many fugitives there are, since the government's
tracking software -- the Deportable Alien Control System, or DACS -- is about 25
years old and considered unreliable. It is supposed to be replaced by January of
next year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ChartAt LargeEach figure represents 10,000 fugitive aliens in the
United States.SEPTEMBER 2001 -- An estimated 332,000 fugitives.FEBRUARY 2007 --
An estimated 636,000 fugitives, up 92 percent since 2001.CapturedSince the first
enforcement teams were established in 2003, they and other officials have
apprehended about 45,000 fugitives:There are now 53 teams. Each has about six
officers to track and arrest fugitives, according to the Homeland Security
inspector general. (Officials won't release exact staffing numbers.)Another 22
teams are supposed to begin work by year's end. Their goal: 1,000 apprehensions
per team yearly, about 167 per officer.If the new teams were in place now, the
current backlog would equal about 1,413 fugitives per officer.(Sources by
Department of Homeland Security and Office of the Inspector General
 Census Bureau [city population figures])

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Final Stop for Thousands Of Ellis Island Immigrants Is Reopening After Repairs

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 882 words


For tens of thousands of immigrants, making it to the Ferry Building on Ellis
Island was the next-to-last step on a long, arduous journey to America.

Clutching papers that proved they had been cleared by customs officials to enter
the country, they sat on high-backed oak benches in the main room waiting to
board a boat to Manhattan. For almost 20 years, it was the last way station for
New York's new arrivals.

But like all of the other buildings on Ellis Island, the Ferry Building was
shuttered and neglected for decades. The only creatures that passed through it
were birds, rodents and the occasional raccoon.

Now, after five years of stop-and-go restoration that cost $6.4 million, it is
scheduled to reopen to the public today. It is the first step in a broad plan to
reopen all of the buildings on Ellis Island, including a former 750-bed hospital
complex that would be converted into an educational institute and conference
center.

Eventually, visitors may be able to wander freely through the Ferry Building,
which connects the hospital buildings on the south side of the island to the
Ellis Island Immigration Museum on the north side. But because the southern
buildings are still in disrepair, only a limited number of people will be
allowed to sign up to visit the Ferry Building, and only on guided tours.

Inside the Ferry Building, in the lunchroom where some immigrants had their last
meals before becoming New Yorkers, visitors will find an exhibit about the
hospital complex, which at times held hundreds of patients with infectious and
contagious diseases.

Turning those buildings into comfortable meeting spaces for teachers, students
and executives is expected to take about seven years and cost more than $250
million, said Judith R. McAlpin, president of Save Ellis Island, a nonprofit
group dedicated to preserving the structures.

''We're only at the very beginning,'' said Ms. McAlpin, who is leading the
fund-raising on behalf of the National Park Service, which oversees Ellis Island
and the Statue of Liberty nearby.

Crews have removed toxic materials, like asbestos and lead paint, from the
hospital buildings, but the floors and stairwells are in shabby condition, said
Cynthia R. Garrett, the superintendent of the statue and Ellis Island.

In the complex of wards that held people with infectious diseases, much was left
as it was a half-century ago. The beds are gone, but the sinks and supply
cabinets are intact. In an empty third-floor room in one hospital wing, sunshine
beamed through a skylight to a spot where an operating table once stood.

The laundry building, the next to be restored and reopened, still holds a rusted
washing machine labeled ''The Fletcher Whirlwind'' and a giant horizontal dryer
for bed linens that was known as a mangle.

Darcy Hartman, the director of education and public programs for Save Ellis
Island, said the group hoped to display the old machines to impress upon
visitors what a bustling complex the hospital once was.

April 17 will mark the 100th anniversary of the peak of activity on Ellis
Island, when it processed 11,747 immigrants in a single day. In 1907, more than
1.1 million passed through the immigration station there. In the 68 years it was
in operation, it processed about 12 million immigrants.

About 90 percent of them passed a doctor's once-over that was known as a
''six-second inspection'' and were on their way within a few hours, Ms. Hartman
said. The rest were held for further inspection, treatment and even quarantine.

About one of every 100 was refused admission to the country for having a
''loathsome and contagious'' disease, Ms. Hartman said.

The exhibit in the Ferry Building, titled ''Future in the Balance: Immigrants,
Public Health and Ellis Island's Hospitals,'' includes pictures of the complex
in its heyday in the early 20th century and tales from some of the immigrants,
doctors and nurses who spent time there before it was abandoned.

The Ferry Building replaced an original wooden structure that stood on the same
site, next to the dock where a ferry named Ellis Island picked up loads of
immigrants bound for Manhattan.

The Ferry Building was built in Art Deco style by the federal Public Works
Administration for just $133,000 and opened for use in January 1936. It closed
in 1954.

The restoration took so long in part because of decades of neglect, Ms. Garrett
said.

''This was a ruin,'' she said. ''It had been exposed to the elements for 50
years.''

Looking up toward the 36-foot-high ceiling in the waiting room, she recalled,
''you could see the sky.''

Workers peeled the lead coating off four carved eagles perched atop a cupola
that crowns the waiting room and replaced it with zinc, said Don Fiorino, who
managed the project for the park service.

They were surprised that the building's beacon still worked after they replaced
the bulb, he said. An old electric wall fan also was cleaned up and plugged back
in above a doorway in the lunchroom.

For at least two months, visitors will be able to stand on the gleaming terrazzo
floors and gaze out the building's refinished steel windows at the carcass of
the Ellis Island, which sank at its mooring in the 1970s.

The park service plans to cut up what is left of it and haul it away this
spring.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2007



CORRECTION: An article last Monday about the reopening of the Ferry Building on
Ellis Island incorrectly described some of the exterior restoration and
architectural features. Don Fiorino, the project manager for the National Park
Service, said workers peeled lead-coated copper (not lead) off the building's
cupola (not off the eagles perched atop it). The copper was replaced with
zinc-coated copper, not zinc. And the eagles are stamped, not carved.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Only a limited number of people will be allowed to visit the
Ferry Building, top, which connects to a hospital complex that needs extensive
repairs. That work, estimated to cost more than $250 million, will include
repairing living quarters, above. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York
Times)(pg. B1)
 (Satellite image by Sanborn via Google Earth, The New York Times)(pg. B2)Map of
New York surrounding Liberty State Park. (pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

After an Anti-Immigrant Flare-Up, Texas Gets Back to Business

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 922 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.


Everybody said that the nation's anti-immigrant fever was going to spread to
Texas this year.

State lawmakers entered the new legislative session with dozens of bills whose
anti-immigrant passions ranged from warm to extra hot. They wanted to tax money
transfers to Latin America and to sue the federal government for money spent on
border enforcement. One even fired a broadside at the 14th Amendment, seeking to
deny the benefits of citizenship to Texas-born children of illegal immigrants.
Their goal seemed to be to make immigrants' lives as miserable as possible, and
to howl at Washington for not fixing the mess.

Meanwhile, an energetic cohort of grass-roots advocates and legislators, Latino
and otherwise, stood ready to challenge the hard-liners at every step. A bonfire
loomed.

But last week something strange and encouraging happened. The Legislature took a
big step back from the immigration fight, as an unusual alliance rose up in
support of humane, sensible reform.

The powerful Republican chairman of the State Affairs Committee, David Swinford,
declared that most of the immigration bills were constitutionally flawed,
needlessly divisive and a waste of time, so he was not going to let them come to
the floor. Some members were left spluttering -- ''Everything we do here is
divisive,'' said Representative Leo Berman, author of the birthright citizenship
challenge and other harsh bills. But that was all he could do.

Mr. Berman, an affable Republican from East Texas, says that Mexico is the
world's most corrupt country and that its citizens are infecting us with their
law-breaking culture and with tuberculosis and leprosy. He has many friends in
the Capitol, which is nobody's idea of an immigrant-amnesty zone.

But the convictions gripping him have been eclipsed by something deeper in the
Texas soul.

That would be business.

Mr. Swinford said he had consulted the state attorney general and concluded that
most of the immigration bills would not survive court scrutiny. Never mind that
some sponsors were well aware of their bills' technical flaws and were itching
to attract lawsuits anyway. Mr. Swinford clearly had no appetite for crusading
or grandstanding, and decisively put a lid on things.

''We've got business to do,'' he told me. ''We can't be fighting and get our
business done.''

He was talking about efficiency. But his words could have been taken from the
mouths of the powerful Texas Republicans who have entered the debate squarely on
the side of comprehensive reform -- that blend of border toughness and
pro-immigrant fairness that Republicans elsewhere deride as ''amnesty.''

The story dates to last year. It has to do, as Megan Headley wrote in The Texas
Observer, with pro-business Republicans realizing that anti-immigrant fervor
''threatened to purge Texas of the workers that pluck chickens, build houses,
and make some people very rich.''

Their attention was grabbed last April, when a Democratic representative, Rafael
Anchia, tacked a provocative amendment onto a bill raising business taxes to
finance property-tax relief. It would have forbidden employers to cut their
taxes by deducting wages of illegal workers.

Mr. Anchia wanted to send the message that any crackdown on illegal immigrants
would be met, blow for blow, with bills going after their employers.

That got Mr. Anchia a visit from Bill Hammond, president of the Texas
Association of Business, one of the state's most powerful lobby groups. An
alliance was born.

Mr. Hammond is now standing beside the likes of the American Civil Liberties
Union, the National Council of La Raza and the Equal Justice Center as a member
of Texas Residents United for a Stronger Texas, or Trust.

The group recently sent the Legislature and governor a 15-point statement of
principles on immigration reform. It urges economic development in Texas and in
Latin America. It argues for cultural diversity, bilingual education and
in-state tuition for illegal immigrant children. And it denounces enforcement
bills of the sort piled up by the dozen in Austin.

Mr. Swinford represents an agricultural district with a lot to lose from attacks
on immigrant labor. (It's home to a Swift meat plant recently raided by federal
agents.) But he insists he did not stifle any bills at the behest of big
business.

Maybe not, but he has certainly made it happy. The same week that Mr. Swinford
announced that the problematic bills in his committee would die there, like the
hoof-and-mouth cattle slaughtered in ''Hud,'' Mr. Hammond stood with Mr. Anchia
on the Capitol steps to unveil an ad campaign urging Congress to pass
comprehensive immigration reform, including a path to citizenship.

The ads were created by another new alliance, Texas Employers for Immigration
Reform, which includes the Texas Association of Business and executives like Bo
Pilgrim, the Pilgrim's Pride chicken magnate. Its Web site, www.txeir.org, makes
some of the staunchest arguments for comprehensive immigration reform you'll
ever hear from rich Republican donors and power players.

This Texas pragmatism has not taken hold elsewhere. Not in Washington, where
Republicans are laying out hard-core positions against ''amnesty.'' Not in
states like Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, which are steaming ahead with
harsh agendas.

But here, at least for now, powerful forces have come to understand -- whether
through warm feelings for workers or, more likely, cold self-interest -- that in
attacking immigrants, Texas is attacking itself.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Echoes of '40s Internment Are Seen in Muslim Detainees' Suit

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words


Holly Yasui was far away when a federal judge in Brooklyn ruled last June that
the government had wide latitude to detain noncitizens indefinitely on the basis
of race, religion or national origin. The ruling came in a class-action lawsuit
by Muslim immigrants held after 9/11. But Ms. Yasui, an American citizen of
Japanese ancestry, had reason to take it personally.

Her grandparents were among thousands of Japanese immigrants in the United
States who were wrongfully detained as enemy aliens during World War II. And her
father was one of three Japanese-Americans who challenged the government's
racial detention and curfew programs in litigation that reached the Supreme
Court in the 1940s.

Now, Ms. Yasui, along with Jay Hirabayashi and Karen Korematsu-Haigh, a son and
a daughter of the two other Japanese-American litigants, is urging an appeals
court in Manhattan to overturn the sweeping language of the judge's ruling last
year.

The ruling ''painfully resurrects the long-discredited legal theory'' that was
used to put their grandparents behind barbed wire, along with the rest of the
West Coast's Japanese alien population, the three contend in an unusual
friends-of-the-court brief to be filed today in the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit.

''Their interest is in avoiding the repetition of a tragic episode in American
history that is also, for them, painful family history,'' the brief states.

In recent years, many scholars have drawn parallels and contrasts between the
internment of Japanese-Americans after the attack on Pearl Harbor, and the
treatment of hundreds of Muslim noncitizens who were swept up in the weeks after
the 2001 terror attacks, then held for months before they were cleared of links
to terrorism and deported.

But the brief being filed today is a rare case of members of a third generation
stepping up to defend legal protections that were lost to their grandparents,
and that their parents devoted their lives to reclaiming.

''I feel that racial profiling is absolutely wrong and unjustifiable,'' Ms.
Yasui, 53, wrote in an e-mail message from San Miguel de Allende, Mexico, where
she works as a writer and graphic designer. ''That my grandmother was treated by
the U.S. government as a 'dangerous enemy alien' was a travesty. And it killed
my grandfather.''

Prof. Eric L. Muller, a legal historian at the University of North Carolina
School of Law, said he contacted Ms. Yasui and the others after reading about
the decision by the federal judge, John Gleeson. Both sides in the case, known
as Turkmen v. Ashcroft -- a lead plaintiff is Ibrahim Turkmen -- appealed parts
of the decision by Judge Gleeson. He let the Muslims' lawsuit continue, mainly
on their claims of unlawful detention conditions, but dismissed key elements of
their discrimination claims.

Asked to comment, the Justice Department would not discuss the Turkmen case, but
its appeal argues in part that government officials ''were confronted with
unprecedented law enforcement and security challenges in the wake of the Sept.
11 attacks,'' and that ''there were no clear judicial precedents in this
extraordinary context.''

Professor Muller said he drafted the brief on behalf of the three grandchildren
to try to persuade the Second Circuit to reject what he considers the needless
breadth of Judge Gleeson's opinion. ''Judge Gleeson's decision paints with such
a broad brush, there isn't really any stopping point,'' he said.

The judge held that under immigration law, ''the executive is free to single out
'nationals of a particular country.' '' And because so little was known about
the 9/11 hijackers, he ruled, singling out Arab Muslims for detention to
investigate possible ties to terrorism, though ''crude,'' was not ''so
irrational or outrageous as to warrant judicial intrusion into an area in which
courts have little experience and less expertise.''

The brief counters that the ruling ''overlooks the nearly 20-year-old
declaration by the United States Congress and the president of the United States
that the racially selective detention of Japanese aliens during World War II was
a 'fundamental injustice' warranting an apology and the payment of
reparations.''

And, it adds, the district court's deference to the government ''ignores the
tragic consequences of such deference'' for 120,000 people of Japanese ancestry
during World War II.

Among those people was Ms. Yasui's grandfather Masuo Yasui, who immigrated to
the United States in 1903 and became a successful businessman and apple grower
in Hood River, Ore., where his nine children were born and raised.

By 1940, he was one of 47,000 Japanese immigrants who lived in the 48 states,
nearly 90 percent on the West Coast. They had remained aliens because federal
law forbade naturalization of any person of Asian ancestry. Since the law also
forbade Japanese immigration after 1924, the United States had been home to all
of them for many years on Dec. 7, 1941, when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor.

Two months later, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066,
declaring West Coast residents of Japanese ancestry -- whether American citizens
or not -- ''enemy aliens.'' An 8 p.m. curfew was imposed on them; roundups sent
them to desolate internment camps.

Challenged by Fred Korematsu, Gordon Hirabayashi and Ms. Yasui's father, Minoru
-- all of them American citizens, like most of those interned -- the measures
were upheld, on a 6-to-3 decision, by the Supreme Court in 1944. The decision
was not repudiated by the courts until 1983.

''In the case of my grandfather, the tragedy was multiplied by the fact that he
was a hero in the eyes of his children, a leader in the Japanese-American
community of Hood River, and had always counseled his compatriots to be '200
percent American,' '' Ms. Yasui said. ''And look what it got him: arrested and
dragged out of his house a few days after the attack on Pearl Harbor,
transferred from one military prison to another for years, and not released
until several months after the war was over.''

She was only 5 when he died in the 1950s, she said, but she later learned that
he committed suicide, after days of hallucinations in which he imagined that the
F.B.I. was after him again.

The Hirabayashi and Korematsu grandparents, too, died before Congress enacted a
law apologizing for the internment and offering compensation of $20,000 each for
the survivors. Signed into law in 1988, the law was intended partly ''to
discourage the occurrence of similar injustice and violations of civil liberties
in the future.''

By then, courts re-examining the cases of the three Japanese-American litigants
found that the government had suppressed evidence that security fears were
overblown. For example, what the Army had suspected were signals sent to
Japanese submarines from California hillsides had actually come from ''farms
where people used flashlights to go to outside toilets,'' a former Justice
Department lawyer testified.

Since 9/11, Professor Muller said, ''post-Pearl Harbor fear is no longer a
historical fossil,'' making the new brief all the more significant.

Unlike the Japanese residents, it argues, the Muslim plaintiffs were not enemy
aliens over whom the government had almost complete power, but aliens accused
only of overstaying their visas.

If it was a grave injustice to subject ''enemy aliens'' to prolonged detention
on account of race and national origin in World War II, the brief says, it was
at least as unjust to single out the Turkmen plaintiffs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In April 1942, thousands of evacuees lined up outside a mess
hall at an ''assembly center'' in San Bruno, Calif., above. At right, in
Hayward, Calif., in 1942, a family awaited an evacuation bus. (Photographs by
Dorothea Lange)(pg. B2)
 Ibrahim Turkmen, who sued, saying he was illegally detained and deported.
(Photo by Yoray Liberman/Getty Images for The New York Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 4, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Agents Arrest 3 Accused of War Crimes

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 114 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3


Three former South American military officers suspected of war crimes have been
arrested by United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, the agency
said Tuesday in a statement.

The suspects include Ernesto Guillermo Barreiro, a retired army major, who is
accused by Argentine authorities in the torture and deaths of several people
during Argentina's so-called Dirty War period from 1976 to 1983, the statement
said. He was arrested in The Plains, Va.

Arrested in Baltimore and Miami were two former Peruvian Army officers who have
been accused in the 1985 killing of 69 villagers known as the Accomarca
massacre.

All three have been charged with violating immigration laws.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rights Groups Hail Arrests Of 3 by U.S. In War Crimes

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 802 words

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, April 4


Latin American human rights groups have reacted with satisfaction and muted
surprise to the arrest in the United States of three Argentine and Peruvian
former military officers accused of human rights abuses who had fled their home
countries to avoid prosecution there.

Of the three men detained over the weekend in Virginia, Maryland and Florida and
charged with violating immigration laws, the most notorious is Ernesto Guillermo
Barreiro of Argentina. During the so-called Dirty War of the late 1970s, he was
the chief interrogator at La Perla, a clandestine prison in Cordoba, Argentina's
second largest city, where more than 2,000 prisoners were tortured or killed.

''This is big news, and deserves to be celebrated both in Argentina and the
United States,'' said Gaston Chillier, director of the Center for Legal and
Social Studies, a leading human rights group in Buenos Aires. ''This is someone
with a long record not just of crimes against humanity, but also of resistance
to efforts to hold him responsible for his actions.''

During the 1980s, the democratic civilian government that came to power in
Argentina tried to bring Mr. Barreiro to justice. But he defied a court summons
to face charges and then quickly helped start a military rebellion that led to
passage of an amnesty law that exempted officers below the rank of colonel -- he
was then a major -- from prosecution in connection with human rights abuses on
the grounds they were merely following orders.

In 2004, a year after Argentina's current president, Nestor Kirchner, came to
power promising to revive such prosecutions, Mr. Barreiro fled to the
Washington, D.C., area and opened an antiques store. The Argentine Supreme Court
overturned the amnesty nearly two years ago, and several hundred people now face
charges, including Mr. Barreiro and Maria Estela de Peron, the former president,
who lives in exile in Spain and is fighting extradition.

The arrests have put the Bush administration in the unaccustomed position of
being praised by human rights groups and news organizations in Latin America.
The former officers were detained by a unit of the Homeland Security Department,
which is traditionally widely criticized in the region for the way it treats
illegal immigrants from Latin America.

''This administration has a very poor record as regards international human
rights law and the Geneva convention,'' Jose Miguel Vivanco, the director of
Human Rights Watch Americas, said in a telephone interview from Washington.
''However, there is nothing on the record that shows that this administration is
interested in protecting individuals responsible for gross violations of human
rights, unless they have some link with intelligence agencies.''

Mr. Vivanco said he was referring to Luis Posada Carriles, a Cuban exile and
former C.I.A. asset who is wanted in Cuba and Venezuela on charges that he blew
up a Cuban airliner in 1976, killing 73 people. The United States has also
declined to extradite Emmanuel Constant, former leader of a right-wing Haitian
paramilitary group who has been convicted in absentia there of organizing a 1994
massacre.

It is not yet clear how American authorities intend to handle Mr. Barreiro's
case. He could either be summarily deported for having lied about his record on
his visa application, tried and jailed in the United States in connection with
that offense, or extradited to Argentina, normally a time-consuming process.

''It would be an irony if an immigration infraction were to delay Barreiro's
return,'' said Horacio Verbitsky, an Argentine author and journalist who has
written several books on human rights issues. ''The United States could impose
no more severe punishment than to send him back to Argentina, where he faces
life imprisonment but will receive due process and the fair trial'' he denied
his victims.

The other two men being held, Telmo Ricardo Hurtado and Juan Manuel Rivera
Rondon, are Peruvians. They are accused of having participated in the massacre
of 69 peasants in an Andean village in 1985, when President Alan Garcia was
trying to suppress the brutal Maoist Shining Path guerrilla movement.

Mr. Garcia is once again president, and the extradition or expulsion of the two
officers to stand trial in Peru could produce embarrassing revelations there.
Concerns about a cover-up or official foot-dragging are among the reasons human
rights advocates say they will monitor the case closely.

''The de facto policy of the Peruvian military has been to provide zero
cooperation in cases of abuses committed in the 1980s,'' Mr. Vivanco said. ''To
send these fellows back is the right thing to do, but I think it would be
important to get assurances at the highest levels of the Peruvian government
that the military are going to break with that pattern.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Morristown's Incendiary Mayor

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 467 words


The one thing you can say for certain about the controversy over day laborers is
that it incites people to the boiling point. That is certainly true in
Morristown, where the mayor, instead of trying to calm tempers, seems to be
doing everything he can to turn up the heat.

With his plan to deputize a sixth of the town's police force as federal
immigration agents, Mayor Donald Cresitello acknowledges that he would like to
drive the day laborers, most of them Hispanic, out of town. He says that he will
respect their civil liberties. But his intemperate language and reckless claims
disparaging the day laborers and their supporters seem almost calculated to
inflame already angry residents.

At a recent Town Council meeting jammed with boisterous onlookers, Mr.
Cresitello described thousands of immigrants as ''criminals,'' and put the blame
for Morristown's relatively high crime rate on the estimated 200 day laborers
who each morning line up near the train station, looking for work.

The mayor has also said that local ministers who have supported the immigrants
had done nothing ''significant'' to address the problem. He delights in
recounting incident after incident in which he says young immigrants were found
urinating on residents' lawns and passed out in their backyards.

Under the mayor's plan, the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency
would train 10 of the town's 58 police officers as deputy agents, which would
give them the authority to begin the deportation process against illegal
immigrants picked up for various offenses.

Federal immigration officials have so far deputized officers of about a dozen
state and county agencies, mostly sheriff's departments. This makes sense
because sheriffs run the jails and therefore need to check incoming inmates to
see if they are in the country legally. But Washington is rightly leery of
deputizing local police who might be encouraged to exert that authority in a
heavy-handed manner.

Furthermore, Morristown's own police chief, Peter Demnitz, has been cool to the
mayor's plan; he thinks it could discourage immigrants from reporting crimes
against them. There have been numerous reports of day laborers who have been
held up shortly after receiving their day's pay in cash, and some contractors
are suspected of having cheated the workers of some of their earnings.

At this point, Mayor Cresitello should lower his voice and pursue a constructive
approach. An essential first step would be to set up a hiring site, with
toilets, where day laborers looking for work could gather and contractors could
hire them. Officials at the site would monitor and register both workers and
contractors, to discourage worker disorderliness and deter unscrupulous
contractors. This could go a long way towards defusing the issue.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

DNA Tests Offer Immigrants Hope or Despair

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


For 14 years, Isaac Owusu's faraway boys have tugged at his heart. They sent
report cards from his hometown in Ghana and painstaking letters in fledgling
English while he scrimped and saved to bring them here one day.

So when he became an American citizen and officials suggested taking a DNA test
to prove his relationship to his four sons, he embraced the notion. Imagine, he
marveled as a lab technician rubbed the inside of his cheek, a tiny swab of
cotton would reunite his family.

But modern-day science often unearths secrets long buried. When the DNA results
landed on Isaac Owusu's dinner table here last year, they showed that only one
of the four boys -- the oldest -- was his biological child.

Federal officials are increasingly turning to genetic testing to verify the
biological bonds between new citizens and the overseas relatives they hope to
bring here, particularly those from war-torn or developing countries where
identity documents can be scarce or doctored.

But while the tests often lead to joyful reunions among immigrant families, they
are forcing others to confront unexpected and sometimes unbearable truths.

For Isaac Owusu, a widower, the revelation has forced him to rethink nearly
everything he had taken for granted about his life and his family.

It has left him struggling to accept what was once unthinkable: that his
deceased wife had long been unfaithful; that the children he loves are not his
own; and that his long efforts to reunite his family in this country may have
been in vain.

The State Department let his oldest son, now 23, come to the United States last
fall, but said the others -- a 19-year-old and 17-year-old twins -- could not
come because they are not biologically related to him.

Isaac Owusu, who asked that only his first and middle names be published because
he would like to keep his family's pain private, is still hoping the government
will allow the teenagers to join him, arguing that he has been a devoted
stepfather, if not a biological parent.

But in recent months, he says, he has simply unraveled.

''Sometime when I get in bed, I don't sleep,'' said Isaac Owusu, 51, who works
for an electrical equipment distributor and an auto supply shop.

''I say to myself, 'Why this one happen to me?' '' he asked, his eyes wet with
tears. ''Oh, mighty God, why this one happen to me?''

A similar sense of shock is reverberating through other families across the
country as genetic testing becomes more common. State Department and Homeland
Security Department officials do not keep statistics on the number of DNA tests
taken by new citizens or permanent residents, who are allowed to bring some
close relatives to the United States if they can document their family ties.

But Mary K. Mount, a DNA testing expert for the A.A.B.B. -- formerly known as
the American Association of Blood Banks -- estimates that about 75,000 of the
390,000 DNA cases that involved families in 2004 were immigration cases. Of
those, she estimates, 15 percent to 20 percent do not produce a match.

Negative results can suggest an effort to bring in illegal immigrants or distant
relatives, officials say, though they note that requests for DNA tests deter
illicit activities. An official, who spoke anonymously because he was not
authorized to discuss the cases, found no indication of wrongdoing by the
families interviewed for this article.

Such genuinely unexpected results hit immigrant families particularly hard
because DNA testing sometimes provides the best chance of reuniting with loved
ones abroad.

''Sometimes these are complicated families,'' said Tony Edson, a deputy
assistant secretary of state. ''People are learning things that they never knew
about themselves.''

In California, for example, a Mexican-American family splintered after a DNA
test showed that a young woman, a new citizen, was not related to the man she
considered her father. The man, who was living in the United States, was ordered
back to Mexico because his visitor's visa had expired.

In Maryland, a man from Sierra Leone discovered that his baby back home was the
product of a hidden trauma. His wife, who was separated from him during their
country's civil war, had been raped by rebels. In her shame, she had never
revealed the truth.

New citizens and permanent residents are asked -- not required -- to take the
tests if they lack documentation of ties to relatives overseas. Physicians
designated by the State Department typically collect samples from relatives
abroad and send them to this country for testing.

A negative result does not eliminate the possibility of reunification. New
citizens can adopt children under 16 and bring them to the United States,
officials say. They can also petition for stepchildren or stepparents in certain
circumstances.

But immigrants say officials rarely notify them of such alternatives. Meanwhile,
lawyers say the government's growing reliance on DNA testing burdens immigrants
who often pay $450 or more to test parent and child.

Officials counter that the process helps reunify families who might otherwise
remain divided because they lack adequate documents. But they acknowledge that
genetic testing can carry an emotional toll.

Tamara Gonzalez, a new citizen from Jamaica, said her test result has forced her
to question her very identity.

She and her father, who lives in Jamaica, took the tests last year after she
applied to bring him to the United States. When she learned they were not
related, she confronted her mother, who said the result must be a mistake.

Mrs. Gonzalez, who works at a day care center in Brooklyn, said she would like
to believe her mother. But she said her faith in her family bonds had been
shaken. ''It changes my sense of who I am,'' said Mrs. Gonzalez, who is 31.
''And it has changed things between me and my mother.''

''I wonder now if there's something she's hiding or not saying,'' she said. ''I
start to wonder: Who is my father? Am I ever going to know?''

Clevy Muir, the man she knows as her father, says he is still trying to sort out
their options.

''I'm not going to give up my daughter, you understand?'' he said. ''But where
can I turn?''

Balfour Francis, a 44-year-old Jamaican-born welder in Brooklyn, had even set
aside a bedroom for the teenager he considers his daughter. She was born to a
woman he had never married, but he had never doubted that she was his baby girl.

Then came last year's DNA results. Now, he said, the bedroom is used for storage
while he struggles to get immigration officials to tell him what he can do next.

''I will not let anybody dictate who is my child,'' said Mr. Francis, who is a
permanent resident and has a wife and children in New York. ''I try to assure
her I am who I will always be.''

Meanwhile, Isaac Owusu cannot keep the faces of his boys in Ghana out of his
mind.

They call him collect on weekends, begging him to explain why he left them
behind. At night, he sees them in his dreams with those big brown eyes that
everyone used to say resembled his own.

''They ask me, 'Why? Why? Why?' '' he said. '' 'You come and pick up our senior
brother. What about us?' ''

He blames the bureaucracy for the delay because he cannot bear to tell the
truth. They are already motherless, he said. How can he tell them they are
fatherless now, too?

Over the years, while his sister cared for the boys, he has sent money for
tuition and uniforms, doctors and food. He has saved their letters. (''Father,
in Ghana we are in the rainy season so I need two thing,'' one son wrote, ''rain
coat and rain boot.'') He has pored over their report cards (''Obedient and
respectful,'' one teacher wrote), urging them to study harder so they could
succeed here.

He moved, with a new wife, from an apartment to a house to make room for them
all, and became a citizen in 2002. But last year's DNA tests dashed his hopes
for a speedy reunion.

After months of inquiries, Elizabeth M. Streefland, his immigration lawyer,
finally determined that he could petition for the teenagers as their stepfather.
He must prove that the boys are the children of his deceased wife. Isaac Owusu
hopes that a DNA test of one of his wife's siblings, which could be compared
with that of the teenagers, would provide that proof.

That will cost more money. But he says he simply cannot give up on his boys. ''I
tell them, 'Daddy still loves you,' '' he said. '' 'Anything it takes, I will do
to get you over here.' ''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandra and Balfour Francis of Brooklyn, with a photograph of
Nickiesha, who is in Jamaica. Last year, DNA tests showed she is not his
daughter. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
 Letters from boys in Ghana whom Isaac Owusu considers his. He will petition as
a stepfather since tests showed three are not related to him. (Photo by T. C.
Worley for The New York Times)(pg. A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Teenage Immigrants Came of Age, Her Camera Was There

BYLINE: By LAURA RIVERA

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; PHOTOGRAPHY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 680 words


WITH little more than a secondhand camera she bought 20 years ago, Barbara
Beirne, a lifelong resident of New Jersey, has hiked through remote regions of
the Appalachian Mountains and flown as far as Northern Ireland in search of
compelling subjects for her photographs.

The images Ms. Beirne has captured, from rugged faces of Appalachian women near
their homes to chilling scenes of children standing next to soldiers' rifles on
Belfast streets, portray the stories of the people she has encountered and the
communities that shaped them.

Her most recent project, ''Becoming American: Teenagers and Immigration,''
depicts the diversity of backgrounds and desires of adolescent newcomers and
first-generation teenagers in the United States, as well as the challenges they
faced coming of age here. The exhibition, sponsored by the Smithsonian
Institution, began a nationwide tour on March 10 at the Ellis Island Immigration
Museum; it runs through June 3.

Ms. Beirne, of Morristown, began to explore photography in the mid-1980s after
raising four children with her husband, John. During trips to Northern Ireland
from 1987 to 1994, she saw the violence young people routinely encountered in
Belfast. In one close-up shot, a boy playing a drum looks up at a soldier who is
pointing a rifle at him.

''I was just anxious to show what the children's life was like: guns on the
street and guns pointed at them,'' Ms. Beirne said. ''You can't do that unless
you're in close.''

David E. Haberstich, a Smithsonian Institution archivist who has followed Ms.
Beirne's work for 15 years, said he was impressed by how close she got.

In 1997, just before Ms. Beirne's exhibition on southern Appalachian women was
to open in Washington, one subject decided she did not want her photograph to
appear. While Mr. Haberstich, the exhibit's curator, argued that it should be
kept, Ms. Beirne said she wanted to remove it out of respect for the woman's
right to change her mind.

''Her caring about the person trumped her artistic concerns,'' Mr. Haberstich
said. ''There are many artists who would have been totally uncompromising about
something like that. But that's not Barbara.''

''Becoming American,'' which took six years to complete, features portraits of
more than 50 teenagers who had moved to different regions of the country. It
stemmed in part from a 1999 magazine assignment to photograph Kosovar Albanian
refugees at Fort Dix.

Ms. Beirne tried unsuccessfully to keep track of camp residents as they settled
throughout the United States. She often found herself wondering how they would
adapt to a new country, she said.

During the project, Ms. Beirne met Arsim Mustafa, a middle school student who
had passed through Fort Dix and was living in El Cajon, Calif., a small city
outside San Diego. Arsim, photographed on a paint-splattered handball court,
sports high-top basketball sneakers and looks steadily at the lens. Accompanying
text reads: ''In my country, it was always war. I saw people dying.''

It concludes, ''We finally got away, but I was upset.''

Ms. Beirne, a descendant of immigrants who fled the potato famine in Ireland,
said the encounter with Arsim ''was like coming full circle.'' Growing up in
Bloomfield, she saw a 1955 Life magazine series of photographs by Dorothea Lange
on Irish country people -- children, fiddlers and farmers on their land.

''We knew little about our heritage, since my ancestors didn't want to talk
about their experiences,'' Ms. Beirne said. ''To see these pictures, you really
got a feeling for the village and the time.''

Now, her portrait of Kelechi Ibeh, who played football at Bloomfield High School
and is the son of Nigerian immigrants, hangs in the same museum as portraits by
Jacob Riis and Lewis Hine, pioneers in documentary photography.

''What I hope to show is that immigrants are all over the United States now,''
Ms. Beirne said, adding that she wanted her 10 grandchildren to learn about
their new compatriots. ''I thought it was important for them to realize the
sacrifices people go through in life.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: EYES WIDE OPEN -- Barbara Beirne in her studio in Morristown.
Her show ''Becoming American: Teenagers and Immigration'' is on view at Ellis
Island. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Love Isn't Just DNA

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 122 words


To the Editor:

''DNA Test Offers Immigrants Hope or Despair'' (front page, April 10) recounts
the poignant story of Isaac Owusu, a naturalized American citizen, who can bring
from Ghana only one of his four sons to join him in the United States because
DNA testing by immigration officials showed that only one is his biological son.

Despite this devastating news, Isaac Owusu still considers all four his sons and
wishes to be reunited with them.

What does the government decision to define family restrictively communicate to
adoptive parents, stepparents and others who know that ''family'' is constituted
by love and care at least as much as, and sometimes in place of, biology?  Carol
Delaney Providence, R.I., April 10, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 302 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 26, 2006 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Boom in Rockies for Skiers, Developers and Immigrants;
TV Review | 'Tom Brokaw Reports: In the Shadow of the American Dream'

BYLINE: NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: ARTS; television

LENGTH: 589 words



HIGHLIGHT: The title deserves an F.C.C. fine for unoriginality, but this NBC
program does a decent job of translating one of the year's most bloviated-upon
topics, immigration, into human terms.


 The title deserves an F.C.C. fine for unoriginality, but "In the Shadow of the
American Dream," tonight on NBC, does a decent job of translating one of the
year's most bloviated-upon topics, immigration, into human terms. It may also
give anyone on a holiday ski trip to Colorado an extra bit of luggage: a small
bag of guilt.

The latest in the "Tom Brokaw Reports" series, the program avoids the
statistics-and-sound-bite trap that makes most treatments of the subject so dry.
It focuses instead on one particular microcosm, Gould Construction in Glenwood
Springs, Colo., a contractor whose territory, the Roaring Fork Valley near
Aspen, is a destination for  vacationers and the expensive-second-home crowd.

"Americans don't want this work," Mark Gould, the company's president, says
bluntly of the ditch-digging and other tough jobs that must be done to enable
boom-time buildings to go up. But immigrants, mostly Mexicans, do want it, and
so in the Rockies, far from the border and that much-discussed wall, Spanish is
taking over. Mr. Brokaw visits a four-bedroom house where one of Mr. Gould's
workers lives with 17 other people. Only one of the 18 is an American, a
2-year-old who was born in the United States.

Mr. Gould talks forthrightly about the frustrations of having more work than he
can find workers to do. His staff is shown making what seems to be a good-faith
effort to check applicants' papers, and the police and other local officials
talk about legal-vs.-illegal-immigrant issues, but there's a sense that it's all
a facade: everyone knows the area's economy wouldn't run without illegal
workers. Certainly Mr. Brokaw's crew has no trouble not only pinpointing which
of Mr. Gould's workers are illegal but also finding the document-forger they
use.

But this is no exposé. It's an attempt to look at the immigration issue through
the eyes of people directly involved, and Mr. Brokaw  -  despite an annoying
interview technique in which he states the ideas he wants his subjects to
articulate, then asks them if that's correct  -  gets a commendable amount of
candor out of people when he lets them talk.

Varied views are dutifully represented, but this is at heart a pro-immigrant
program;   immigrants are depicted as hard workers, and there is no suggestion
that some come to the United States specifically to commit crimes or rip off the
system. If nothing else, though, Mr. Brokaw reveals the interconnectedness that
takes hold once a community turns to immigrant labor.

The longtime Colorado resident who speaks eloquently about how it feels to have
her children now be part of a minority group in the local school, which is 80
percent Hispanic, is a vice president at Gould Construction.  One project Mr.
Gould is trying to find workers for is a school expansion, made necessary by the
influx of immigrants.

Essentially absent, though, are the rich people and vacationers whose demands
for creature comforts are presumably fueling all of this. Who is going to be
staying in that hotel Gould Construction is working on? How many of those future
visitors are charter members of the Close the Border Club?

TOM BROKAW REPORTS

In the Shadow of the American Dream

NBC, tonight at 8; Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time.

David Corvo, executive producer; Soraya Gage, producer; Joyce Cordero, Leonor
Ayala, field producers; Liz Bowyer, editorial producer; Erika Beck, researcher;
Josh Kuvin, editor; Tom Brokaw, reporter.

A resort area that could not run without the tough jobs done by illegal workers.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
